ITEM 2.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenue or other financial items, any statement of or concerning the following: the plans and objectives of management for future operations, proposed new products or licensing, product development, anticipated customer demand or capital expenditures, anticipated growth and trends in our business and industry, future economic and/or market conditions or performance and assumptions underlying any of the above. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as could, may, will, would, expects, believes, intends, plans, anticipates, estimates, projects, predicts, potential or continue or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including those identified in the Risk Factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as in other sections of this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. Overview We develop, market and sell our appliance-based platform, cloud and managed services that enable service providers of all types and sizes to innovate and transform their businesses. For our customers to successfully transform their businesses into the innovative BXPs of the future, they require actionable data for critical business functions such as network operations, customer support and marketing. However, this data is often trapped in disparate systems or departmental silos. Our platform, which includes Calix Cloud, Unlimited Subscriber and Intelligent Access, gathers, analyzes and applies machine learning to deliver real-time insights seamlessly to each key business function. Our customers utilize these insights to simplify network operations, marketing and customer support and innovate for their customers, business and municipal subscribers by delivering a growing portfolio of SmartLifeTM managed services and experiences. This enables BXPs to grow their businesses through increased subscriber acquisition, loyalty and revenue and to reduce their operating costs, while creating value for their members, investors and the communities they serve. We market our platform and managed services to communication service providers globally through our direct sales force as well as select resellers. Our customers range from smaller, regional service providers to some of the worlds largest service providers. Customers are defined into small (less than 250,000 subscribers), medium (250,000 to 2.5 million subscribers) or large (greater than 2.5 million subscribers). We have approximately 1,600 active customers that have deployed passive optical, Active Ethernet or point-to-point Ethernet fiber access networks or our subscriber premise systems. Our revenue and potential revenue growth will depend on our ability to develop, market and sell our platform and managed services to strategically aligned customers of all types such as wireless internet service providers, fiber overbuilders, cable multiple system operators, municipalities and electric cooperatives in the United States and internationally. Our growth is also highly dependent on the speed and willingness of customers to adopt our platform and managed services. Revenue fluctuations result from many factors, including, but not limited to: increases or decreases in customer orders for our products and services, global economic and geopolitical events and conditions, including tariffs, trade controls, inflation, economic downturns and market, financial or other factors such as government stimulus that may delay or materially impact customer purchasing decisions, non-availability of products due to supply chain challenges, including component and labor shortages and increasing lead times as well as disruptions as a result of pandemics or natural disasters, contractual terms with customers that result in delayed revenue recognition and varying budget cycles and seasonal buying patterns of our customers. More specifically, our customers have in the past spent less in the first quarter as they are finalizing their annual budgets, and in certain regions, customers are challenged by winter weather conditions that inhibit fiber deployment in outside infrastructure. In recent years, as our revenue from our large customers decreased, we have experienced less year-end volatility due to capital budgetary spending or freezing. This, combined with an increase in recurring revenue, has resulted in smaller seasonal fluctuations, and we expect this trend to continue. Our revenue is also dependent upon our customers success in growing their subscribers, timing of purchases, capital expenditure plans and decisions to upgrade their networks or adopt new technologies, including adoption of our software and cloud platform solutions, as well as our ability to grow our customer base. 18 Table of Contents Cost of revenue is strongly correlated to revenue and tends to fluctuate due to all of the above factors that may cause revenue fluctuations. Factors that have impacted our cost of revenue for the three months ended March 29, 2025 include: changes in the mix of products delivered, customer location and regional mix, changes in the cost of our inventory, investments to support expansion of cloud and customer support offerings as well as our customer success organization, changes in product warranty, incurrence of retrofit costs, amortization of intangibles, support fees for silicon-related development work for our products, allowances for obligations to our suppliers, and inventory write-downs. Factors that we expect may impact our cost of revenue in future periods include the same as in the prior quarter and changes in trade policies. For example, in April 2025, the U.S. President signed an executive order increasing tariffs on imports from numerous countries, including China and other Asian countries where our sole-source or limited-source suppliers are located. Consequently, absent policy changes, these actions will increase our cost of revenue. We are currently evaluating the actions we may be able to take to mitigate such costs as we navigate this challenging and dynamic operating environment. In addition, we periodically ship by air versus by ocean in order to meet delivery commitments to our customers, which is more costly. Cost of revenue also includes fixed expenses related to our internal operations, which could increase our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue if our revenue declines. Our gross profit and gross margin fluctuate based on timing of factors such as changes in customer mix and changes in the mix of products demanded and sold (and any related write-downs of existing inventory or accrual for supplier commitments) and have in the past been and may be negatively impacted by increases in mix of revenue from channel sales rather than direct sales or other unfavorable customer or product mix, shipment volumes and any related volume discounts, changes in our product and services costs, pricing decreases or discounts, new product introductions or upgrades to existing products, customer rebates and incentive programs due to competitive pressure or materials shortages, supply constraints, investments to support expansion of cloud and customer support offerings, tariffs or unfavorable changes in trade policies. Our operating expenses fluctuate based on the following factors among others: changes in headcount and personnel costs, which comprise a significant portion of our operating expenses; variable compensation due to fluctuations in shipment volumes or level of achievement against performance targets; timing of research and development expenses, including investments in innovative solutions and new customer segments, prototype builds and outsourced development resources; investments in marketing programs; asset write-offs; investments in our business and information technology infrastructure; and fluctuations in stock-based compensation expenses due to timing of equity grants or other factors affecting vesting. Further, as a result of factors contributing to the fluctuations described above among other factors, many of which are outside our control, our quarterly operating results fluctuate from period to period. Comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates and judgments that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. Management bases its estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial statements may be affected. Our management evaluates its estimates, assumptions and judgments on an ongoing basis. Our critical accounting policies and estimates, which are revenue recognition and inventory valuation and supplier purchase commitments, are described under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. For the three months ended March 29, 2025, there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There have been no additional accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting pronouncements during the three months ended March 29, 2025 as compared with the recent accounting pronouncements described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 that are significant or expected to be significant to us. 19 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 29, 2025 and March 30, 2024 Revenue The following table sets forth our revenue by customer size (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 29, 2025 March 30, 2024 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Large $ 21,644 $ 16,105 $ 5,539 34 % Medium 24,861 27,886 (3,025) (11) % Small 173,737 182,319 (8,582) (5) % $ 220,242 $ 226,310 $ (6,068) (3) % Our revenue decreased by $6.1 million for the three months ended March 29, 2025 as compared to the corresponding period in 2024. As with others in the telecommunication industry, our business went through a period of adjustments following the COVID pandemic, which resulted in fewer purchases in 2024 such that our revenue hit its lowest level since the second quarter of 2022 in the second quarter of 2024. Since then, our quarterly revenue has grown sequentially. The decrease in revenue in the small- and medium-customer segment was primarily due to the industry slowdown in 2024, caused by factors such as order normalization, consideration of the U.S. Department of Commerce National Telecommunications and Information Administrations, or NTIAs, Broadband Equity, Access and Deployment, or BEAD, program and evaluation of business models given relatively low subscriber attach rates. The increase in revenue in the large-customer segment was primarily due to a demand pull forward by a customer. For the three months ended March 29, 2025, United States revenue was $211.2 million, or 96% of our revenue, compared to $210.1 million, or 93% of our revenue for the same period in 2024. International revenue was $9.1 million, or 4% of our revenue, for the three months ended March 29, 2025, as compared to $16.2 million, or 7% of our revenue, for the same period in 2024. The decrease in international revenue for the three months ended March 29, 2025, as compared to the same period in 2024, was mainly due to lower shipments to Europe and to a lesser extent the Americas outside the United States. No customer accounted for more than 10% of the Companys revenue for the three months ended March 29, 2025 and March 30, 2024. Gross Profit and Gross Margin The following table sets forth our gross profit and gross margin (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 29, 2025 March 30, 2024 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Gross profit $ 122,708 $ 122,577 $ 131 % Gross margin 55.7 % 54.2 % Gross profit was relatively flat comparing the three months ended March 29, 2025 to the corresponding period in 2024. Our gross margin increased by 150 basis points for the three months ended March 29, 2025, compared to the corresponding period in 2024, primarily related to the continued growth in our platform, cloud and managed services being a greater percentage of our total revenue. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Expenses The following table sets forth our sales and marketing expenses (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 29, 2025 March 30, 2024 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Sales and marketing expenses $ 58,059 $ 53,897 $ 4,162 8 % Percent of revenue 26 % 24 % 20 Table of Contents Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 29, 2025 increased by $4.2 million compared with the corresponding period in 2024 primarily due to increases in personnel expenses of $2.8 million, stock-based compensation of $1.6 million and travel expenses of $0.7 million. These increases were partially offset by decreases in outside services of $0.4 million and depreciation and amortization of $0.4 million. For the three months ended March 29, 2025, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue increased to 26% from 24% in the same period in 2024 due to lower revenue and the increases described above. We expect our investments in sales and marketing will increase slightly in absolute dollars on a year-over-year basis, but decline as a percentage of revenue, as we continue to land new customers and expand our platform, cloud and managed services. Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 29, 2025 March 30, 2024 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development expenses $ 43,980 $ 44,422 $ (442) (1) % Percent of revenue 20 % 20 % Percentage of gross profit 36 % 36 % Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 29, 2025 decreased by $0.4 million as compared with the corresponding period in 2024 mainly due to decreases in personnel expenses of $1.4 million and outside services of $1.2 million. These decreases were partially offset by increases in prototypes and test equipment expenses of $0.7 million, stock-based compensation of $0.6 million and depreciation and amortization of $0.4 million. For the three months ended March 29, 2025, research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue was flat compared to the same period in 2024. We expect our investments in research and development to remain relatively flat in absolute dollars in the short term, and decline as a percentage of revenue, as we continue to expand the functionality and capabilities of our platform, cloud and managed services. General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our general and administrative expenses (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 29, 2025 March 30, 2024 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent General and administrative expenses $ 26,750 $ 26,290 $ 460 2 % Percent of revenue 12 % 12 % General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 29, 2025 increased by $0.5 million as compared with the corresponding period in 2024 mainly due to increases in personnel expenses of $1.6 million and stock-based compensation of $0.6 million. These increases were partially offset by decreases in professional services expenses of $1.8 million. For the three months ended March 29, 2025, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue were flat compared to the same period in 2024. We expect our general and administrative investments to be fairly constant in absolute dollars in the near term, but decline as a percentage of revenue. Interest and Other Expense, net The following table sets forth our interest and other expense, net (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 29, 2025 March 30, 2024 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Interest and other expense, net $ 3,091 $ 2,500 $ 591 24 % Percent of revenue 1 % 1 % 21 Table of Contents Interest and other expense, net increased by $0.6 million as compared with the corresponding period in 2024 mainly due to a larger cash and marketable securities balance. Income Taxes The following table sets forth our income taxes (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 29, 2025 March 30, 2024 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Income taxes $ 1,797 $ 365 $ 1,432 392 % Effective tax rate (60.1) % 78.0 % For the three ended March 29, 2025, our income tax expense was $1.8 million for an effective tax rate of (60.1)%, which differed from the statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the effect of non-deductible stock-based compensation for executive officers and excess tax expense from stock-based compensation offset by the favorable impact of U.S. federal research tax credits and the U.S. tax impact of foreign operations. The effective tax rates for the three months ended March 29, 2025 are lower than the corresponding period in 2024 primarily as a result of lower pre-tax earnings with a relatively consistent level of non-deductible expenses. Our income taxes may be subject to fluctuation during the year and in future years as new information is obtained. This may affect the assumptions used to estimate the interim income tax provision, including factors such as actual results differing from our estimates of pre-tax earnings in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, which could impact the recognition of our deferred tax assets, further benefits from stock option exercises, investments in our foreign operations, the recognition or de-recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions and changes in or the interpretation of tax laws in jurisdictions where we conduct business. Liquidity and Capital Resources For the past few years as our business grew and was profitable, we have funded our operations and investing activities from cash flow generated from our operations as well as the issuance of common stock under our equity incentive plans. As of March 29, 2025, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $282.3 million, which consisted of deposits held at banks and major financial institutions and highly liquid marketable securities such as U.S. government and its agency securities, corporate debt securities and commercial paper. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $17.2 million for the three months ended March 29, 2025 and consisted of a net loss of $4.8 million offset by non-cash charges of $21.4 million and cash flow increases of $0.6 million reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $19.7 million and depreciation and amortization of $4.3 million partially offset by deferred income taxes of $1.5 million and the net accretion of available-for-sale securities of $1.1 million. Cash flow increases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in accounts receivable of $3.8 million due to the timing of customer payments, an increase in deferred revenue of $3.2 million driven by support contract renewals, a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $2.8 million mainly due to a reduction in our inventory deposits and an increase in accounts payable of $3.5 million due to the timing of inventory receipts. This was partially offset by a decrease in accrued liabilities of $14.6 million relating to various factors including a decrease in incentive compensation related accruals. Net cash provided by operating activities was $14.7 million for the three months ended March 30, 2024 and consisted of net income of $0.1 million and non-cash charges of $17.9 million offset by cash flow decreases of $3.3 million reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $16.9 million and depreciation and amortization of $4.9 million partially offset by deferred income taxes of $2.4 million and the net accretion of available-for-sale securities of $1.4 million. Cash flow decreases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in accrued liabilities of $28.9 million due to the payout of incentive compensation and a decrease in the reserves for inventory held at suppliers, and a decrease in accounts payable of $16.0 million due to the timing of inventory payments. These changes were partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $25.7 million, due to the timing of customer payments and lower sales in the first quarter of 2024 than the prior quarter, a decrease in inventory of $13.2 million as the supply chain continued to normalize, and an increase in deferred revenue of $2.3 million primarily due to support contract renewals as well as an increase in customer payments received or due in advance of satisfying the related contracts performance obligation. 22 Table of Contents Investing Activity For the three months ended March 29, 2025, cash provided by investing activities of $11.0 million consisted of net purchases of marketable securities of $15.3 million and partially offset by capital expenditures of $4.3 million, consisting primarily of purchases of test and computer equipment. For the three months ended March 30, 2024, cash provided by investing activities of $3.3 million consisted of net maturities of marketable securities of $7.0 million partially offset by capital expenditures of $3.7 million, consisting primarily of purchases of test and computer equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $29.1 million for the three months ended March 29, 2025 primarily consisted repurchases of our common stock of $40.0 million partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock related to our equity plans of $10.8 million. Net cash provided by financing activities of $7.1 million for the three months ended March 30, 2024 primarily consisted of proceeds from the issuance of common stock related to our equity plans of $10.8 million partially offset by repurchases of our common stock of $3.7 million. Working Capital and Capital Expenditure Needs Our material cash commitments include non-cancelable firm purchase commitments, normal recurring trade payables, compensation-related and expense accruals, operating leases and revenue-share obligations. We believe that our outsourced approach to manufacturing provides us significant flexibility in both managing inventory levels and financing our inventory. Furthermore, we have a common stock repurchase program, which had $62.9 million available as of March 29, 2025. In April 2025, our Board of Directors authorized a $100.0 million increase to this program. Our stock repurchase program does not require us to purchase a specific number of shares and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time. We believe, based on our current operating plan and expected operating cash flows, that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain other sources of liquidity, we will be forced to limit or terminate our stock repurchase program, limit our development activities, reduce our investment in growth initiatives and/or institute cost-cutting measures, all of which may adversely impact our business and potential growth. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments as of March 29, 2025 consisted of contractual obligations under non-cancelable outstanding purchase obligations and operating lease obligations for office space. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of March 29, 2025 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years Non-cancelable purchase commitments (1) $ 263,315 $ 149,736 $ 80,830 $ 31,645 $ 1,104 Operating lease obligations (2) 16,305 4,007 5,140 3,331 3,827 $ 279,620 $ 153,743 $ 85,970 $ 34,976 $ 4,931 (1) Represents outstanding purchase commitments to be delivered by our third-party manufacturers or other vendors. See Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion regarding our outstanding purchase commitments related to our third-party manufacturers. (2) Future minimum operating lease obligations in the table above primarily include payments for our office locations, which expire at various dates through 2033, including our new San Jose headquarters lease that will commence in August 2025. See Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion regarding our operating leases.