Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statement of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products or licensing, any statements regarding product development, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, and any statement of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expects, plans, anticipates, estimates, potential, or continue or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the Risk Factors set forth under Part II, Item 1A below, and for the reasons described elsewhere in this report. All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this report are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. Overview We are a leading provider in North America of broadband communications access systems and software for copper- and fiber- based network architectures that enable communications service providers, or CSPs, to connect to their residential and business subscribers. We develop and sell carrier-class hardware and software products, which we refer to as our Unified Access Infrastructure portfolio, designed to enhance and transform CSP access networks to meet the changing demands of subscribers rapidly and cost-effectively. Our Unified Access Infrastructure portfolio consists of our two core platforms, our C-Series multiservice, multiprotocol access platform, or C-Series platform, and our E-Series Ethernet service access platforms, or E-Series platforms, along with our complementary P-Series optical network terminals, or ONTs, and our Calix Management System, or CMS, network management software. We also offer installation, training, post-sales software support and extended warranty services. To date, service revenue has comprised an insignificant portion of our revenue. Our revenue has increased to $75.5 million and $195.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 25, 2010, respectively, from $59.6 million and $144.6 million for the three and nine months ended September 26, 2009, respectively. Continued revenue growth will depend on our ability to continue to sell our access systems and software to existing customers and to attract new customers, including in particular, those customers in the large CSP and international markets. Since our inception we have incurred significant losses, and as of September 25, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $410.9 million. Our net loss was $5.4 million and $17.8 million for the three and nine months ended September 25, 2010, respectively. Our net loss was $4.4 million and $25.3 million for the three and nine months ended September 26, 2009, respectively. Basis of Presentation Revenue We derive our revenue primarily from sales of our hardware products and related software. We generally recognize revenue after products have been delivered and accepted, and title has been transferred to the customer. In certain cases, our products are sold along with services, which include installation, training, post-sales software support and/or extended warranty services. To date, service revenue has comprised an insignificant portion of our revenue, and we have not reported service revenue separately from product revenue in our financial statements. As of September 25, 2010, our revenue deferrals, related to partially delivered arrangements that were entered into prior to January 1, 2010, and RUS contracts that include installation services, special customer arrangements and ratably recognized services totaled $28.5 million. Where substantive acceptance provisions are specified in an arrangement or extended return rights exist, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met or the extended return rights expire. The timing of deferred revenue recognition may cause significant fluctuations in our revenue and operating results from period to period. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue is comprised of the following: Products and services revenue Cost of products revenue includes the inventory costs of our products that have shipped, accrued warranty costs for our standard warranty program, outbound freight costs to deliver products to our customers, overhead from our manufacturing operations cost centers, including stock-based compensation, and other manufacturing related costs associated with manufacturing our products and managing our inventory. We outsource our manufacturing to third-party manufacturers. Inventory costs are estimated using standard costs which reflect the cost of historical direct labor, direct overhead and materials used to build our inventory. Cost of services revenue includes direct installation material costs, direct costs from third-party installers, professional service costs, repair fees charged by our outsourced repair contractors to refurbish product returns under an extended warranty or per incident repair agreement, and other miscellaneous costs to support our services. 15 Table of Contents Amortization of existing technologies These expenses are the result of our acquisition of Optical Solutions, Inc., or OSI. Gross Profit Our gross profit and gross margin have been, and will likely be, impacted by several factors, including new product introduction or upgrades to existing products, changes in customer mix, changes in the mix of products demanded and sold, shipment volumes, changes in our product costs, changes in pricing and the extent of customer rebates and incentive programs. We believe our gross margin could increase due to favorable changes in these factors, for example, increases in sales of newly introduced products such as our E7 Ethernet service access platform, which was introduced in the fourth quarter of 2009, upgrades to our existing C7, new introductions of our P-Series ONTs and reductions in the impact of rebate or similar programs. We believe our gross margin could decrease due to unfavorable changes in factors such as increased product costs, pricing decreases due to competitive pressure and an unfavorable customer or product mix. Changes in these factors could have a material impact on our future average selling prices and unit costs. Also, the timing of deferred revenue recognition and related deferred costs can have a material impact on our gross profit and gross margin results. The timing of recognition and the relative size of these arrangements could cause large fluctuations in our gross profit from period to period. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist primarily of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses and are recognized as incurred. Personnel-related costs, which include stock-based compensation expense, are the most significant component of each of these expense categories. We expect to continue to hire new employees in order to support our anticipated growth and status as a public company. In any particular period, the timing of additional hires could materially affect our operating expenses, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase in absolute dollar amounts but will decline as a percentage of revenue over time. Research and Development Research and development expenses represent the largest component of our operating expenses and include personnel costs, consulting services, depreciation on lab equipment, costs of prototypes and overhead allocations. We expense research and development costs as incurred. Since the costs of software development that we incur after a product has reached technological feasibility are not material, we have not capitalized any such costs to date. We intend to continue making significant investments in developing new products and enhancing the functionality of our existing products. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel costs, employee sales commissions and marketing programs. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase as we hire additional personnel both in North America and internationally to support our anticipated revenue growth. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs and costs for facilities related to our executive, finance, human resource, information technology and legal organizations and fees for professional services. Professional services consist of outside legal, tax and audit costs. We expect to incur significant additional expenses as a result of operating as a public company, including costs to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Acquisition-Related Costs Acquisition-related costs consist primarily of costs incurred for professional services associated with our acquisition related activities that are in progress. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets Amortized acquired intangible assets comprise customer contracts and lists and purchase order backlog obtained in the OSI acquisition. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily includes interest expense on our outstanding loans and interest income on our cash and investment balances. In addition, other income (expense), net includes adjustments to record our convertible preferred stock warrants at fair value. These convertible preferred stock warrants were converted into common stock warrants upon the closing of our initial public offering on March 26, 2010. Although an adjustment was recorded in the three months ended March 27, 2010, no such adjustment was made in the three months ended September 25, 2010 and no further adjustments will be made in future periods. Further, on May 4, 2010, we paid in its entirety our outstanding term loan of $20.0 million including outstanding accrued interest and prepayment penalties of $0.4 million. Critical Accounting Policies and the Use of Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates and judgments that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. Management bases its estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to 16 Table of Contents be reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. Our management evaluates its estimates, assumptions and judgments on an ongoing basis. 17 Table of Contents On January 1, 2010, we early adopted the new accounting standard for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements (ASC Topic 605-25), on a prospective basis, related to allocating revenue in a multiple deliverable arrangement as described more fully below. Other than the adoption of ASC Topic 605-25, there have been no significant changes in our significant accounting policies during the nine months ended September 25, 2010 as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act with the SEC on March 24, 2010. The items in our condensed consolidated financial statements requiring significant estimates and judgments are as follows: Revenue Recognition In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, amended the accounting standards for revenue recognition to remove tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality from the scope of industry-specific software revenue recognition guidance. In October 2009, the FASB also amended the accounting standards for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements to: (i) provide updated guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the deliverables in an arrangement should be separated, and how the consideration should be allocated; (ii) require an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using best estimate of selling prices, or BSP, of deliverables if a vendor does not have vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price, or VSOE, or third-party evidence of selling price, or TPE; and (iii) eliminate the use of the residual method and require an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method. We elected to early adopt this accounting guidance at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2010 on a prospective basis for applicable transactions originating or materially modified after December 31, 2009. This guidance does not change the units of accounting for our revenue transactions. Our products and services qualify as separate units of accounting. Products are typically considered delivered upon shipment and are deemed to be non-contingent deliverables. We provide certain services at stated prices over a specified period of time and must meet specified performance conditions. As such, we have determined that our individual services are contingent deliverables. In addition, we provide specified packages of items considered a package arrangement which we also consider a contingent deliverable, and therefore we do not bill our customers until we have fully delivered the package. For multiple-element arrangements that include products and packages or services, we will first exclude the contingent revenue items and then allocate the remaining consideration to the non-contingent product deliverables on the basis of their relative selling price, which is currently BSP. To the extent that the stated contractual prices fall within our calculated range for BSP, we will allocate the consideration using the stated contractual prices. However, if the stated contractual price for any product deliverable is outside the range, the contractual prices will be adjusted using the midpoint price within its range in order to allocate arrangement consideration using the relative selling price method. Since the individual products and services meet the criteria for separate units of accounting, we will recognize revenue upon delivery of each product and/or services. Post-sales software support revenue and extended warranty services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed. Installation and training service arrangements are recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. These service arrangements are typically short term in nature and are largely completed shortly after delivery of the product. Revenue from package arrangements are recognized upon full delivery of the package. In instances where substantive acceptance provisions are specified in the customer agreement, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. Our arrangements generally do not include any provisions for cancellation, termination, or refunds that would significantly impact recognized revenue. We derive revenue primarily from the sale of hardware products and related software. Shipping charges billed to customers are included in revenue and the related shipping costs are included in cost of revenue. In certain cases, our products are sold along with services, which include installation, training, post-sales software support and/or extended warranty services. Post-sales software support consists of our management software, including rights, on a when-and-if available basis, to receive unspecified software product upgrades to either embedded software or our management software, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period and product support, which includes telephone and Internet access to technical support personnel. Extended warranty services include the right to warranty coverage beyond the standard warranty period. From time to time, we offer customers sales incentives, which include volume rebates and discounts. These amounts are accrued on a quarterly basis and recorded net of revenue. Payment terms to customers generally range from net 30 to net 90 days. We assess the ability to collect from our customers based primarily on the creditworthiness and past payment history of the customer. Revenue arrangements that provide payment terms that extend beyond our customary payment terms are considered extended payment terms. Occasionally, we offer extended payment terms in a revenue arrangement. Through the date of this filing, we have not experienced any significant accounts receivable write-offs related to revenue arrangements with extended payment terms. Customer arrangements with extended payment terms may also include substantive acceptance criteria within the arrangement which, in accordance with our revenue recognition policy, would cause the revenue in the arrangement to be deferred until all the acceptance criteria have been met. Extended payment terms may also indicate that the customer is relying on a future event as a prerequisite for the payment, such as installation, a new software release or 18 Table of Contents financing, which would indicate that the fees associated with the arrangement are not fixed or determinable. Due to the unusual nature and uncertainty associated with granting extended payment terms in customer arrangements, we defer revenue under these arrangements and recognize the revenue upon payment from the customer, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. We enter into arrangements with certain of our customers who receive government supported loans and grants from the U.S. Department of Agricultures Rural Utility Service, or RUS, to finance capital spending. Under the terms of an RUS equipment contract that includes installation services, the customer does not take possession and control and title does not pass until formal acceptance is obtained from the customer. Under this type of arrangement, we do not recognize revenue until we have received formal acceptance from the customer. For RUS arrangements that do not involve installation services, we recognize revenue in accordance with the revenue recognition policy described above. For transactions entered into prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we primarily recognized revenue based on software revenue recognition guidance prescribed in ASC Topic 985. As we are unable to establish VSOE for our products or installation services the entire fee from arrangements involving multiple product deliverables was deferred and recognized upon delivery of all products. Revenue from products that were sold in combination with installation services was deferred and recognized upon delivery of all products and completion of the installation. In most circumstances when we were not able to determine VSOE for all of the deliverables of the arrangement, but were able to obtain VSOE for any undelivered elements, revenue was allocated using the residual method. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements was deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee was allocated to the delivered items and recognized as revenue, and no revenue was recognized until all elements without VSOE had been delivered. If VSOE of any undelivered items did not exist, revenue from the entire arrangement was initially deferred and recognized at the earlier of: (i) delivery of those elements for which VSOE did not exist or (ii) when VSOE was established. Deferred revenue consisted of arrangements that had been partially delivered, contracts with the RUS that include installation services, special customer arrangements and ratably recognized services. Contrary to our product and installation service sales, we have been able to establish VSOE for our training, post-sales software support and extended warranty services. Training courses are based on a daily rate per person and will vary according to the type of training class offered. Post-sales software support is offered for a one year term and the price is based on the number of customer subscriber lines. Extended warranty pricing is based on the type of product and is sold in one or five year durations. In substantially all of the arrangements with multiple deliverables pertaining to arrangements with these services, we have used and intend to continue using VSOE to allocate the selling price to each deliverable. Consistent with its methodology under previous accounting guidance, we determine VSOE based on our normal pricing practices for these specific services when sold separately. In most instances, we are not able to establish VSOE for all deliverables in an arrangement with multiple elements. This may be due to infrequently selling each element separately, not pricing products within a narrow range, or only having a limited sales history. When VSOE cannot be established, we attempt to establish selling price of each element based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, our marketing strategy differs from that of our peers and our offerings contain a significant level of customization and differentiation such that the comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, we are unable to reliably determine what similar competitor products selling prices are on a stand-alone basis. Therefore, we are typically not able to determine TPE. When we are unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use BSP. The objective of BSP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. BSP is primarily used for all products and installation services where we historically have not been able to establish VSOE of selling price. We determine BSP for a product or service by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, geographies, market conditions, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, characteristics of targeted customers and pricing practices. The determination of BSP is made through consultation with and formal approval by management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy. We regularly review VSOE, TPE and BSP and maintain internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. There were no material impacts during the three and nine months ended September 25, 2010 nor do we expect a material impact in the near term from changes in VSOE, TPE or BSP. 19 Table of Contents Revenue as reported and our estimate of the pro forma revenue that would have been reported during the three and nine months ended September 25, 2010, if the transactions entered into or materially modified after December 31, 2009 were subject to previous accounting guidance, are shown in the following table (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 25, 2010 Nine Months Ended September 25, 2010 As Reported Pro Forma Basis as if the Previous Accounting Guidance Were in Effect As Reported Pro Forma Basis as if the Previous Accounting Guidance Were in Effect Revenue $ 75,492 $ 62,683 $ 195,348 $ 170,719 The new accounting standards for revenue recognition if applied in the same manner to the year ended December 31, 2009 would have resulted in additional revenues of $10.3 million for that fiscal year. Agreements entered into prior to January 1, 2010 which previously had been accounted for under ASC Topic 985-605 but were materially modified subsequent to January 1, 2010 and are now accounted for under ASC Topic 605-25 resulted in recognized revenue of $13.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 25, 2010. In terms of the timing and pattern of revenue recognition, the new accounting guidance for revenue recognition may have a significant effect on revenue in periods after the initial adoption as we continue to market our products in multiple element arrangements. Stock-Based Compensation Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the applicable accounting guidance under ASC Topic 718 for share-based payment transactions. Under the fair value recognition provisions of this guidance, stock-based awards, including stock options, are recorded at fair value as of the grant date and recognized to expense over the employees requisite service period (generally the vesting period), which we have elected to amortize on a straight-line basis. We adopted this guidance using the modified prospective transition method. Under that transition method, compensation expense recognized beginning in 2006 includes compensation expense for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of December 31, 2005, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of this guidance, and compensation expense for all share-based payments granted after December 31, 2005, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of this guidance. Such amounts have been reduced by our estimated forfeitures on all unvested awards. Under the provisions of this guidance, we estimate the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. This model requires various highly judgmental assumptions, including volatility, expected forfeiture rates and expected option life, which have a significant impact on the fair value estimates. Because we are a newly public company, we derive our expected volatility based on our peer group of publicly-traded companies in the industry in which we do business. The expected life of an option award is calculated using the simplified method provided in the SECs Staff Accounting Bulletin 110, and takes into consideration the grants contractual life and vesting periods. We apply an estimated forfeiture rate based on an analysis of our actual forfeitures and will continue to evaluate the adequacy of the forfeiture rate based on actual forfeiture experience, analysis of employee turnover behavior and other factors. If any of the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model change significantly, stock-based compensation expense may differ materially in the future from that recorded in the current period. The fair values of the common stock underlying stock options granted during 2008 and 2009 were estimated by our board of directors, which intended all options granted to be exercisable at a price per share not less than the per share fair market value of our common stock underlying those options on the date of grant. Given the absence of a public trading market in the periods prior to our initial public offering, our board of directors considered numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the best estimate of the fair market value of our common stock at each meeting at which stock option grants were approved. These factors included, but were not limited to, the following: contemporaneous valuations of our common stock, the rights and preferences of our convertible preferred stock relative to our common stock, the lack of marketability of our common stock, developments in our business, recent issuances of our convertible preferred stock and the likelihood of achieving a liquidity event, such as an initial public offering, or IPO, or sale of our company, given prevailing market conditions. If we had made different assumptions and estimates, the amount of our recognized and to be recognized stock-based compensation expense could have been materially different. We believe that we have used reasonable methodologies, approaches and assumptions in determining the fair value of our common stock. During the three and nine months ended September 25, 2010, we recorded stock-based compensation of $7.5 million and $17.5 million, respectively, and for the three and nine months ended September 26, 2009, we recorded stock-based compensation of $2.2 million and $6.7 million. At September 25, 2010, we had $1.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options, net of estimated forfeitures. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average service period of approximately 3.0 years. At September 25, 2010, we had $29.2 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock units, or RSUs, net of estimated forfeitures. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average service period of approximately 2.3 years. To the extent that the actual forfeiture rate is different than what we have anticipated, stock-based compensation related to these awards will be adjusted in future periods. The increased stock-based non-cash compensation expense for 20 Table of Contents the three and nine months ended September 25, 2010 was the result of employee stock options exchanged for RSUs in the third quarter of 2009 which began amortizing upon our initial public offering in March of 2010 and will amortize through April of 2011. Results of Operations Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. In addition, a significant portion of our quarterly sales typically occurs during the last month of the quarter, which we believe reflects customer buying patterns of products similar to ours and other products in the technology industry generally. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict even in the near term. Revenue fluctuations result from many factors, including but not limited to: increases or decreases in customer orders for our products and services, large customer purchase agreements with special revenue considerations, varying budget cycles for our customers and seasonal buying patterns of our customers. More specifically, our customers tend to spend less in the first fiscal quarter as they are finalizing their annual budgets. Customers then typically decide to purchase our products during our second fiscal quarter. In our third fiscal quarter, customers are in the process of deploying such products and as a result there is less spending. In addition, difficulties related to deploying products during the winter also tend to limit spending in the third quarter. Finally, in our fourth fiscal quarter, customer purchases increase as customers are attempting to spend the rest of their budget for the year. Our operating expenses have fluctuated based on the following factors: timing of variable sales compensation expenses due to fluctuations in order volumes, timing of salary increases which have historically occurred in the second quarter, timing of research and development expenses including prototype builds and intermittent outsourced development projects and increases in stock-based compensation expenses resulting from modifications to outstanding stock options. As a result of the fluctuations described below and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, our quarterly operating results fluctuate from period to period. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Comparison of Three and Nine Months Ended September 25, 2010 and September 26, 2009 Revenue The following table sets forth our revenue (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Revenue $ 75,492 $ 59,600 $ 15,892 26.7 % $ 195,348 $ 144,588 $ 50,760 35.1 % Our revenue is principally derived in the United States. During the three months ended September 25, 2010 and September 26, 2009, revenue generated in the United States represented approximately 81% and 92% of revenue, respectively. During the nine months ended September 25, 2010 and September 26, 2009, revenue generated in the United States represented approximately 87% and 90% of revenue, respectively. Revenues increased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009, primarily due to the recognition of approximately $13.0 million of deferred revenue related to the amendment of a significant agreement which had previously been accounted for under Topic 985-605. Furthermore, the third quarter and the first nine months of 2009 were impacted negatively by the uncertainty surrounding the Broadband Stimulus initiative and the overall macroeconomic environment. In addition, a change in our methodology for recognizing revenue on multiple-element arrangements allowed us to recognize revenue on partially delivered orders in 2010. On January 1, 2010, we adopted the guidance of ASC Topic 605-25 which permits us to recognize revenue on multiple-element arrangements for those elements that have been delivered. In periods prior to January 1, 2010, we had deferred such arrangements until all elements had been delivered because we had not established vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for most of our products. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table sets forth our costs of revenue (in thousands, except percentages): 21 Table of Contents Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Cost of revenue: Products and services $ 45,168 $ 37,117 $ 8,051 21.7 % $ 117,194 $ 93,584 $ 23,610 25.2 % Amortization of existing technologies 1,360 1,360 4,080 4,080 Total cost of revenue 46,528 38,477 8,051 20.9 % 121,274 97,664 23,610 24.2 % Gross profit $ 28,964 $ 21,123 $ 7,841 37.1 % $ 74,074 $ 46,924 $ 27,150 57.9 % Gross margin 38.4 % 35.4 % 37.9 % 32.5 % Cost of revenues increased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009, primarily due to an increase in revenues recognized during this period. Gross margins increased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009, primarily as the result of cost reductions in raw materials, product and customer mix and leveraging our fixed costs over our higher revenue base. 22 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 14,299 $ 11,977 $ 2,322 19.4 % $ 39,232 $ 33,187 $ 6,045 18.2 % Percent of total revenue 18.9 % 20.1 % 20.1 % 23.0 % Research and development expenses increased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2009, primarily due to an increase in payroll and related costs of $2.4 million and $4.7 million, respectively, mostly attributable to increased stock-based non-cash compensation, and an increase in headcount mostly related to the opening of our development center in Nanjing, China. The impact of cost cutting efforts in the first quarter of 2009 such as mandatory vacations that did not reoccur in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 also contributed to the increase in payroll and related costs. During the third quarter of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2009, we had a decrease in consulting expenses of $0.4 million due to the transition of development activities to our development center in Nanjing, China, which began in the third quarter of 2010, from a third party contractor who had performed development activities for us in prior periods. During the first nine months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2009, we had an increase in spending on consulting expenses of $0.4 million, an increase in prototype expenses of $0.3 million, and an increase in facility related expenses of $0.5 million. We plan to continue investing in new products and to innovate with our development organization in 2010. The increased stock-based non-cash compensation expense was the result of employee stock options exchanged for RSUs in the third quarter of 2009 which began amortizing upon our initial public offering in March 2010 and will amortize through April 2011. Sales and Marketing Expenses The following table sets forth our sales and marketing expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Sales and marketing $ 10,408 $ 8,494 $ 1,914 22.5 % $ 29,014 $ 23,691 $ 5,323 22.5 % Percent of total revenue 13.8 % 14.3 % 14.9 % 16.4 % Sales and marketing expenses increased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2009, primarily due to an increase in payroll and related costs of $1.5 million during the third quarter of 2010 and $4.5 million in the first nine months of 2010. This was largely attributable to increased stock-based non-cash compensation, increased headcount, higher commissions on increased bookings, and an increase in travel related expenses. In addition, mandatory vacations taken in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 were not mandatory in 2010. Further, during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2009, facility related expenses increased $0.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively, consulting services increased $0.2 million, and spending on advertising costs increased $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively. The increase in stock-based non-cash compensation expense was due to the exchange of employee stock options for RSUs in the third quarter of 2009 which began amortizing upon our initial public offering in March 2010 and will amortize through April 2011. General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our general and administrative expenses (in thousands, except percentages): 23 Table of Contents Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent General and administrative $ 7,344 $ 3,728 $ 3,616 97.0 % $ 19,515 $ 11,629 $ 7,886 67.8 % Percent of total revenue 9.7 % 6.3 % 10.0 % 8.0 % 24 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses increased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2009, primarily due to an increase in payroll and related costs of $3.3 million and $7.6 million, respectively, mostly attributable to increased stock-based non-cash compensation and to a lesser degree increased headcount. Additionally, consulting and professional services expenses increased $0.2 million and $1.1 million in the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, respectively, and insurance costs for our directors and officers increased $0.3 million and $0.5 million in the third quarter and first nine months of 2010, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense of $1.0 million in the first nine months of 2010. The increased stock-based non-cash compensation expense was due to employee stock options exchanged for RSUs in the third quarter of 2009 which began amortizing upon our initial public offering in March 2010 and will amortize through April 2011. Non-cash compensation related to restricted stock units granted to one of our executives in the fourth quarter of 2009 will amortize through the end of fiscal 2013. Acquisition-Related Costs The following table sets forth our acquisition-related costs (in thousands): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Acquisition-related costs $ 2,137 $ $ 2,137 NA $ 2,137 $ $ 2,137 NA In connection with our effort to acquire Occam Networks Inc., or Occam, we have incurred acquisition related costs of $2.1 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010. There were no acquisition-related costs in the corresponding periods in fiscal 2009. We anticipate we will incur additional significant acquisition-related costs in future periods through at least the first quarter of 2011. Amortization of Intangible Assets The following table sets forth our amortization of intangible asset expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Amortization of intangible assets $ 185 $ 185 $ 555 $ 555 In connection with the acquisition of OSI, $32.6 million of the total purchase price was allocated to amortizable intangible assets, which included customer contracts and lists and purchase order backlog. In addition, $1.4 million for each of the three months ended September 25, 2010 and September 26, 2009, and $4.2 million in each of the nine months ended September 25, 2010 and September 26, 2009, related to the amortization of existing technology in connection with the acquisition of OSI was classified as cost of revenue in our financial statements. Other Income (Expense) The following table sets forth our other income (expense) (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Interest income $ 120 $ 38 $ 82 215.8 % $ 297 $ 144 $ 153 106.3 % Interest expense (45 ) (1,404 ) (1,359 ) 96.8 % (1,138 ) (3,426 ) (2,288 ) 66.8 % Change in fair value of preferred stock warrants (23 ) (23 ) 100.0 % (173 ) 72 (245 ) 340.3 % Other income 4 9 (5 ) 55.6 % 13 113 (100 ) 88.5 % Total other income (expense) $ 79 $ (1,380 ) $ (1,001 ) $ (3,097 ) 25 Table of Contents The decrease in other expense in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009 was primarily due to a reduction in interest expense from the repayment of our outstanding loan of $20.0 million on May 4, 2010 including outstanding accrued interest and prepayment penalties of $0.4 million. The expense resulting from the change in the fair value of preferred stock warrants was recorded in the first quarter of 2010. Such preferred stock warrants were converted to common stock warrants at the end of the first quarter of 2010 in connection with our initial public offering and will no longer require revaluation in future periods and therefore there was no related expense in the second or third quarters of 2010. Liquidity and Capital Resources Nine Months Ended September 25, 2010 September 26, 2009 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 8,377 $ (6,346 ) Net cash used in investing activities (42,440 ) (9,781 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 37,383 48,535 At September 25, 2010, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $109.2 million, which primarily consisted of money market mutual funds and highly liquid debt instruments held at major financial institutions. Since inception, we financed our operations primarily through private sales of equity and from borrowings under credit facilities. In our initial public offering we raised net proceeds of approximately $57.3 million. On May 4, 2010, we paid down our outstanding term loan of $20.0 million with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, in its entirety including outstanding accrued interest and prepayment penalties of $0.4 million. Operating Activities Our operating activities provided cash of $8.4 million in the nine months ended September 25, 2010. This resulted primarily from non-cash charges of $26.7 million (the majority of which consist of stock-based compensation charges), partially offset by our net loss of $17.8 million. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included a decrease in accounts receivable of $14.1 million due to lower shipments in the third quarter of 2010 compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, a decrease in deferred cost of goods sold of $6.0 million related to the decrease in deferred revenue, and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.4 million primarily due to lower procurement of raw materials on behalf of our manufacturing vendor and the write-off of loan origination fees from the repayment of our loan with SVB. Cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included a decrease in deferred revenue of $7.9 million primarily the result of a change in revenue recognition rules on multiple-element arrangements, which allowed us to recognize revenue on partially delivered orders in 2010 and an amendment to a customer agreement that had previously been accounted for under the ASC Topic 985-605, an increase in inventory of $6.4 million as we build inventories in anticipation of higher shipment volumes in future periods, a decrease in accounts payables of $5.9 million resulting from lower inventory receipts in the last month of the third quarter of 2010 compared to the last month of the fourth quarter of 2009, and an increase in accrued liabilities of $2.7 million primarily due to an increase in employee compensation, legal fees related to our efforts to acquire Occam partially offset by a decrease in accrued customer rebates. In the nine months ended September 26, 2009, we used $6.3 million in cash from operating activities, which consisted of our net loss of $25.3 million, partially offset by non-cash charges of $15.1 million. In addition, cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included an increase in accounts receivable of $9.7 million from increased shipment volume near the end of the third quarter, a decrease in accounts payable of $7.8 million due to accelerated payment terms with our contract manufacturer to obtain early payment discounts and an increase in deferred cost of goods sold of $5.2 million, related to the increase in deferred revenue. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included an increase in deferred revenue of $10.7 million, a decrease in inventory of $9.5 million resulting from better inventory management and a decrease in restricted cash of $4.2 million as we released performance bonds for the close out of RUS revenue contracts. Investing Activities Our cash used in investing activities in the nine months ended September 25, 2010 consisted of capital expenditures of $3.9 million, the purchase of marketable securities of $74.6 million, which primarily included highly liquid debt instruments and certificates of deposit, offset by sales and maturities of marketable securities of $36.1 million. Our cash used in investing activities in the nine months ended September 26, 2009 consisted of the purchase of marketable securities of $6.3 million, which primarily included money market funds and highly liquid debt instruments, and capital expenditures of $3.5 million, which primarily consisted of computer and test equipment. 26 Table of Contents Financing Activities Our financing activities provided cash of $37.4 million in the nine months ended September 25, 2010, which primarily consisted of net proceeds of $57.3 million from our IPO offset by the repayment of a term loan of $20.0 million. On May 4, 2010, we paid the outstanding loan payable to SVB of $20.0 million in its entirety including outstanding accrued interest and prepayment penalties of $0.4 million. Our financing activities provided cash of $48.5 million in the nine months ended September 26, 2009, which primarily consisted of net proceeds of $49.5 million from the issuance of 9.5 million shares of Series J preferred stock. On May 29, 2009, we entered into a Series J Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, or the Series J Agreement, with certain investors and completed our first closing, at which we issued 6.6 million shares of Series J convertible preferred stock for gross proceeds of $34.7 million. We subsequently completed three additional closings, with the final closing occurring on August 5, 2009. Upon completion, we issued a total of 9.5 million shares of Series J convertible preferred stock for gross proceeds of $50.0 million. This preferred stock was converted into shares of common stock upon our initial public offering in March 2010. In addition, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement with SVB in August 2009. This loan agreement, which replaced a previous loan agreement we had with SVB, provides for $30.0 million of total lending capacity under a revolving credit facility. Working Capital and Capital Expenditure Needs Other than as disclosed in Contractual Obligations and Commitments in our Prospectus filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act on March 24, 2010, and in connection with our efforts to acquire Occam pursuant to which we have committed approximately $88.9 million in cash as part of the acquisition cost which will be funded by cash from the combined companies, we currently have no other material cash commitments, except for normal recurring trade payables, expense accruals and operating leases. In addition, we do not currently anticipate significant investment in property, plant and equipment, and we believe that our outsourced approach to manufacturing provides us significant flexibility in both managing inventory levels and financing our inventory. We may be required to issue performance bonds to satisfy requirements under our RUS contracts. We issue letters of credit under our existing credit facility to support these performance bonds. In the event we do not have sufficient capacity under our credit facility to support these bonds, we will have to issue certificates of deposit, which could materially impact our working capital or limit our ability to satisfy such contract requirements. In the event that our revenue plan does not meet our expectations, we may eliminate or curtail expenditures to mitigate the impact on our working capital. We believe based on our current operating plan, our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and existing amounts available under our revolving line will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the acquisition of new capabilities or technologies and the continued market acceptance of our products. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Contractual Obligations and Commitments During the nine months ended September 25, 2010, other than our intent to acquire Occam Networks Inc. whereby weve committed approximately $88.9 million in cash as part of the acquisition cost which will be funded by cash from the combined companies, there were no other material changes to our contractual obligation and commitment disclosures as set forth under the caption, Contractual Obligations and Commitments in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , as reported in our Prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act with the SEC on March 24, 2010 for the year ended December 31, 2009. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 25, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In April 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-12, Income Taxes (ASC Topic 740): Accounting for Certain Tax Effects of the 2010 Health Care Reform Acts. This ASU updates the FASB Accounting Standards Codification TM for the SEC Staff Announcement, Accounting for the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. This announcement provides guidance on the accounting effect, if any, that arises from the different signing dates between the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, a reconciliation bill that amends the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which we refer to collectively as the Acts. Recently, questions have arisen about whether and how the different signing dates will affect the accounting for these two Acts for that limited number of registrants with a period end that falls between the two signing dates. We do not believe this will impact our financial statements at this time. 27 Table of Contents In January 2010, the FASB issued an update to ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , related to the disclosures for transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 fair value measurements and the activity in Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendment recommends a reporting entity should disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and describe the reasons for the transfers. Further, in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3), a reporting entity should present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements (that is, on a gross basis rather than as one net number). Also, the amendment requires clarification in existing disclosures for disaggregation of fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities and disclosures about inputs and valuation techniques. The effective date is for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements in the roll forward activity in level 3 fair value measurements. Those disclosures are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We have adopted all the amended provisions of ASC Topic 820 in the first quarter of 2010. There was no impact from adoption of this amendment to ASC Topic 820 to our financial statements and related footnote disclosures.