ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statement of or concerning the following: the plans and objectives of management for future operations, proposed new products or licensing, product development, anticipated customer demand or capital expenditures, future economic and/or market conditions or performance, and assumptions underlying any of the above. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expects, believes, intends, plans, anticipates, estimates, potential, or continue or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including those identified in the Risk Factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A, in the discussion below, as well as in other sections of this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 . All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this report are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. Overview We are a leading global provider of broadband communications access systems and software for fiber- and copper-based network architectures that enable communications service providers to connect to their residential and business subscribers. We enable CSPs to provide a wide range of revenue-generating services, from basic voice and data to advanced broadband services, over legacy and next- 17 Table of Contents generation access networks. We focus solely on CSP access networks, the portion of the network that governs available bandwidth and determines the range and quality of services that can be offered to subscribers. We develop and sell carrier-class hardware and software products, which we refer to as the Unified Access portfolio, that are designed to enhance and transform CSP access networks to meet the changing demands of subscribers rapidly and cost-effectively. We market our access systems and related software to CSPs globally through our direct sales force as well as a growing number of resellers. At the end of the first quarter of 2016 , over 20 million ports of our Unified Access portfolio have been deployed at a growing number of CSPs worldwide, whose networks serve over 100 million subscriber lines in total. Our customers include many of the world's largest communications providers. In addition, we have over 1,000 customers who have deployed gigabit passive optical network, Active Ethernet and point-to-point Ethernet fiber access networks. Our revenue was $98.4 million for the three months ended March 26, 2016 , compared to $91.0 million for the three months ended March 28, 2015 . Our revenue levels and continued revenue growth will depend on our ability to continue to sell our access systems and software to existing customers and to attract new customers, including in particular, large CSPs and customers in international markets. More recently, we have seen market demand for turnkey solutions that include professional services together with equipment and materials, including a project we commenced in 2015 with one of our existing customers that has continued to ramp up during the first quarter of 2016 and other smaller professional services projects. Revenue for such projects are generally recognized only when project requirements are completed, typically over longer periods depending on the nature and scope of the project. Similarly, certain costs incurred in the delivery of the professional services, including labor and related costs, are deferred and recognized to cost of revenue when the associated revenue is recognized. Our revenue levels are also dependent upon our customers timing of purchases and capital expenditure plans. Revenue fluctuations result from many factors, including but not limited to: increases or decreases in customer orders for our products and services, customer purchase agreements with provisions that delay revenue recognition, varying budget cycles and seasonal buying patterns of our customers. More specifically, our customers tend to spend less in the first fiscal quarter as they are finalizing their annual budgets and in certain regions customers are also challenged by winter weather conditions that inhibit fiber deployment in the outside plant. As of March 26, 2016 , our deferred revenue of $29.5 million primarily included extended warranty services contracts that are recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, as well as certain contracts with customers who receive government-supported loans and grants under programs such as those administered by the U.S. Department of Agricultures Rural Utility Service ("RUS") that require installation services that are yet to be completed. The timing of recognition of deferred revenue may cause significant fluctuations in our revenue and operating results from period to period. For the three months ended March 26, 2016 , we had a net loss of $10.7 million . Our net loss was $11.9 million for the three months ended March 28, 2015 . Since our inception we have incurred significant losses and, as of March 26, 2016 , we had an accumulated deficit of $567.7 million . Cost of revenue is strongly correlated to revenue and tends to fluctuate from all of the above factors that could impact revenue. Other factors that impact cost of revenue include: changes in the mix of products delivered, increases in services as a mix of total revenue as well as timing of completion of professional services project requirements , customer location, changes in product warranty cost, changes in the cost of our inventory and inventory write-downs. Cost of revenue includes fixed expenses related to our internal operations, which could impact our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue if there are large sequential fluctuations in revenue. Our gross profit and gross margin have been, and will likely continue to be, impacted by several factors, including new product introduction or upgrades to existing products, changes in customer mix, changes in the mix of products demanded and sold (and any related write-downs of existing inventory), shipment volumes, changes in our product costs, changes in product warranty costs, changes in pricing and the extent of customer rebates and incentive programs. Our gross margin could increase due to favorable changes in these factors, for example, increases in sales of our advanced E-Series access systems, new introductions of our P-Series optical network terminals and reductions in the impact of rebate or similar programs. Our gross margin could decrease due to unfavorable changes in factors such as increased product costs, pricing decreases due to competitive pressure and unfavorable customer or product mix. Changes in these factors could have a material impact on our future average selling prices and unit costs. Services revenues typically have higher associated costs and lower margins and any increase in services as a mix of total revenue could result in lower gross margins. In addition, we expect costs associated with our professional services projects to be relatively higher as we ramp up our professional services business to meet demand for turnkey professional services solutions. The timing of our recognition of deferred revenue and related deferred costs could also have a material impact on our gross profit and gross margin results . The timing of recognition and the relative size of these arrangements could cause large fluctuations in our gross profit from period to period. Additionally, our gross margin could be impacted by inventory write-downs. Our operating expenses have fluctuated based on the following factors: changes in headcount, timing of variable compensation expenses due to fluctuations in order volumes, timing of salary increases which have historically occurred in the second quarter, timing of bonus expenses due to changes in the Companys performance, timing of research and development expenses including prototype builds and intermittent outsourced development projects, fluctuations in stock-based compensation expenses due to fluctuations in equity grants or other factors affecting vesting, changes in acquisition-related expenses, and timing of legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with the Occam litigation. We have incurred increased compensation costs due to the additional sales headcount. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase in absolute dollar amounts but will decline as a percentage of revenue over time. As a result of the fluctuations described above and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, our quarterly operating results fluctuate from period to period. Comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. 18 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates and judgments that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. Management bases its estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. Our management evaluates its estimates, assumptions and judgments on an ongoing basis. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are described under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 . During the three months ended March 26, 2016 , there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting ("ASU 2016-09"), which includes provisions intended to simplify the following aspects related to how share-based payments are accounted for and presented in the financial statements: a. Accounting for Income Taxes: ASU 2016-09 requires recognition of all of the tax effects related to share-based payments at settlement (or expiration) through the statement of operations. Under the current GAAP, tax benefits in excess of compensation cost (windfalls) are recorded in equity, and tax deficiencies (shortfalls) are recorded in equity to the extent of previous windfalls, and then to the statement of operations. ASU 2016-09 is required to be applied prospectively to all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies resulting from settlements after the date of adoption. ASU 2016-09 also removes the requirement to delay recognition of a windfall tax benefit until it reduces current taxes payable. Under the new guidance, the benefit will be recorded when it arises, subject to normal valuation allowance considerations. This change is required to be applied on a modified retrospective basis, with a cumulative-effect adjustment to opening retained earnings. b. Classification of Excess Tax Benefits on the Statement of Cash Flows: ASU 2016-09 requires all tax-related cash flows resulting from share-based payments to be reported as operating activities on the statement of cash flows, a change from the current requirement to present windfall tax benefits as an inflow from financing activities and an outflow from operating activities. Either prospective or retrospective transition of this change in cash flow presentation is permitted. c. Forfeitures: ASU 2016-09 allows companies to make an accounting policy election to either estimate the number of awards that are expected to vest (current GAAP) or account for forfeitures when they occur. Estimates of forfeitures will still be required in certain circumstances, such as at the time of modification of an award or issuance of a replacement award in a business combination. If elected, the change to recognize forfeitures when they occur needs to be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, with a cumulative effect adjustment recorded to opening retained earnings. d. Minimum Statutory Tax Withholding Requirements: ASU 2016-09 allows companies to withhold an amount up to the employees maximum individual tax rate in the relevant jurisdiction without resulting in liability classification of the award. This provision is required to be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, with a cumulative-effect adjustment to opening retained earnings for any outstanding liability awards that qualify for equity classification under the ASU. e. Classification of Employee Taxes Paid on the Statement of Cash Flows When an Employer Withholds Shares for Tax-Withholding Purposes: ASU 2016-09 clarifies that all cash payments made to taxing authorities on the employees behalf for withheld shares should be presented as financing activities on the statement of cash flows. This change should be applied retrospectively. ASU 2016-09 will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Early application is permitted in any interim or annual period, with any adjustments reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. We are currently assessing the potential impact of adopting this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) ("ASU 2016-02"), which increases transparency and comparability among companies by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in its balance sheet a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-to-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. The recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee have not significantly changed from current GAAP. ASU 2016-02 retains a distinction between finance leases (i.e. capital leases under current GAAP) and operating leases. The classification criteria for distinguishing between finance leases and operating leases will be substantially similar to the classification criteria for distinguishing between capital leases and operating leases under current GAAP. ASU 2016-02 will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Early application is permitted, and it is required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. We are currently assessing the potential impact of adopting this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330): Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory ("ASU 2015-11"), which requires measurement of inventory at lower of cost and net realizable value, versus lower of cost or market. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. ASU 2015-11 will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Early application is permitted, 19 Table of Contents and the guidance should be applied prospectively. We are currently assessing the potential impact of adopting this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which provides guidance for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and most industry-specific guidance. Additionally, it supersedes some cost guidance included in Subtopic 605-35, Revenue Recognition-Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts, and creates new Subtopic 340-40, Other Assets and Deferred Costs-Contracts with Customers. The standards core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under the previous guidance. These may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. On August 12, 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), Deferral of the Effective Date ("ASU 2015-14") to defer the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year. As a result, the standard will be effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. ASU 2015-14 permits early adoption of the new revenue standard, but not before its original effective date. We are currently assessing the method of adoption and the potential impact of adopting this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015 Revenue The following table sets forth our revenue (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Revenue $ 98,375 $ 91,038 $ 7,337 8 % Our revenue increased to $98.4 million for the three months ended March 26, 2016 , from $91.0 million for the three months ended March 28, 2015 . We experienced stronger bookings and shipments in certain territories during the first quarter of 2016 , compared to the same period last year mainly due to increased customer demand and partly attributed to new opportunities due to mix of product and service offerings led by the ramp of revenue associated with our previously disclosed turnkey network improvement project for an existing customer . This was partially offset by lower revenue derived from contracts funded by the Broadband Stimulus Programs under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 as we completed and closed our existing contracts. The extended date for completion of projects funded under the Broadband Initiatives Program, which is administered by the RUS, ended on July 31, 2015. Our revenue is principally derived in the United States. During the three months ended March 26, 2016 , revenue generated in the United States was $87.9 million or approximately 89% of our total revenue, compared to $80.9 million or approximately 89% of our total revenue for the same periods in 2015 . International revenue was $10.5 million or 11% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 26, 2016 , compared to $10.1 million or approximately 11% of our total revenue for the same periods in 2015 . We had two customers representing more than 10% of revenue during the three months ended March 26, 2016 . Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit The following table sets forth our cost of revenue (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Cost of revenue: Products and services $ 51,230 $ 46,460 $ 4,770 10 % Amortization of intangible assets 1,663 2,088 (425 ) (20 )% Total cost of revenue $ 52,893 $ 48,548 $ 4,345 9 % Gross profit $ 45,482 $ 42,490 $ 2,992 7 % Gross margin 46 % 47 % The increase in cost of revenue of $4.3 million during the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 was primarily attributed to an increase in product cost of revenue mainly due to higher shipments. This was partially offset by a decrease in amortization of intangible assets during the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 as one intangible asset reached completion of its amortization period before the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Hence, we have a shorter amortization period for that particular intangible asset in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 as compared with a full quarter of amortization in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. 20 Table of Contents Including amortization of intangible assets, gross margin decrease d to 46% during the three months ended March 26, 2016 , from 47% during the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . The decrease in gross margin during the three months ended March 26, 2016 was primarily attributed to lower margins in services revenues. The decrease in gross margin was partially offset by the impact of lower amortization of intangible assets during the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 . Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 22,773 $ 21,914 $ 859 4 % Percent of total revenue 23 % 24 % The increase in research and development expenses of $0.9 million during the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and employee benefits of $0.5 million. We increased our research and development efforts to support our growing product portfolio, strategic investment in new solutions and international market expansion, hence, we increased our research and development workforce by hiring new full time employees which led to higher compensation cost. Additionally, during the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 , professional services mainly relating to outside consulting services increased by $0.7 million due to relatively larger scale consulting projects. This was partially offset by a $0.2 million decrease in travel expenses incurred during the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared to the same period fiscal 2015 . We are continuing our strategic investments in our Unified Access portfolio. We intend to continue to invest in research and development to support our systems and software platforms in anticipation of expected growth opportunities. Sales and Marketing Expenses The following table sets forth our sales and marketing expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Sales and marketing $ 19,062 $ 19,759 $ (697 ) (4 )% Percent of total revenue 19 % 22 % The decrease in sales and marketing expenses during the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to a $0.6 million decrease in stock-based compensation mainly due to equity awards that completed vesting in 2015. We expect to continue our investments in sales and marketing in order to extend our market reach and grow our business in support of our key strategic initiatives. General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our general and administrative expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent General and administrative $ 12,684 $ 10,152 $ 2,532 25 % Percent of total revenue 13 % 11 % The increase in general and administrative expenses of $2.5 million during the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to an increase in professional services of $1.6 million. This was mainly attributed to a $1.7 million increase in legal fees and expenses related to defense costs in the Occam litigation that were not reimbursable under our Directors & Officers liability insurance or were otherwise in excess of the insurance coverage, partially offset by lower consulting and contracted labor services which decreased by $0.2 million during the three months ended March 26, 2016 . Additionally, our compensation and employee benefits also increased by $1.0 million during the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared with the same period in fiscal 2015 mainly relating to an increase in headcount. 21 Table of Contents Amortization of Intangible Assets The following table sets forth our amortization of intangible assets included in operating expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Amortization of intangible assets $ 1,701 $ 2,552 $ (851 ) (33 )% Percent of total revenue 2 % 3 % The decrease in amortization of intangible assets of $0.9 million during the three months ended March 26, 2016 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2015 was due to one of our intangible assets that had reached completion of its amortization period before the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Hence, we have a shorter amortization period for that particular intangible asset in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 as compared with a full quarter of amortization in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. Provision for Income Taxes The following table sets forth our provision for income taxes (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 26, 2016 March 28, 2015 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Provision for income taxes $ 121 $ 91 $ 30 33 % Effective tax rate (1.1 )% (0.8 )% The income tax provision for the three months ended March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015 consisted primarily of foreign income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015 was determined using an estimated annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete items, if any, that occurred during the respective period. The Companys effective tax rate for the three months ended March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015 is impacted by the change in foreign income tax expense . Deferred tax assets are recognized if realization of such assets is more likely than not. The Company has established and continues to maintain a full valuation allowance against its net deferred tax assets, with the exception of certain foreign deferred tax assets, as the Company does not believe that realization of those assets is more likely than not . Our effective tax rate may be subject to fluctuation during the year as new information is obtained, which may affect the assumptions used to estimate the annual effective tax rate, including factors such as the mix of forecasted pre-tax earnings in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, the recognition or de-recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions, and changes in or the interpretation of tax laws in jurisdictions where we conduct business . Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations and investing activities primarily through cash generated from operations. At March 26, 2016 , we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $64.3 million , which consisted of deposits held at banks, money market mutual funds held at major financial institutions and highly liquid marketable securities such as corporate debt instruments, U.S. government agency securities and commercial paper. This includes $5.3 million of cash held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest our earnings from foreign operations outside the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate the earnings from foreign operations to fund our U.S. operations. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operations of $5.3 million in the three months ended March 26, 2016 consisted of a net loss of $10.7 million , more than offset by a $8.2 million of non-cash charges and a $7.8 million of cash flow increases reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities. Cash flow increases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $8.4 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to the timing of our sales commissions and other expenses accruals and payout, a $6.5 million decrease in inventories primarily due to higher inventory turnover, and a $3.4 million decrease in accounts receivable mainly due to strong collections in 2016, partially offset by a $8.5 million decrease in accounts payable primarily due to the timing of inventory receipts and payments to our manufacturers, a $1.4 million net decrease in deferred revenue and deferred cost of revenue as a result of revenue recognition for previous shipments related to certain RUS-funded contracts, and a $0.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $3.4 million of amortization of intangible assets, $2.7 million of stock-based compensation, $2.0 million of depreciation and amortization and $0.1 million of amortization of premiums related to available-for-sale securities. Net cash used in operations of $11.9 million in the three months ended March 28, 2015 consisted of a net loss of $11.9 million and a $11.1 million of cash flow decreases reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities, partially offset by a $11.1 million of non-cash charges. Cash flow decreases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $10.8 million decrease in accounts payable due to payments to our manufacturers, a $8.3 million increase in accounts receivable, and a $0.4 million net decrease in deferred revenue and deferred cost of revenue as a result of certain RUS-funded and BBS contracts recognized during the period, partially offset by a $6.1 million decrease in inventories primarily due to higher inventory turnover, a $2.0 million decrease in prepaids and other 22 Table of Contents current assets, and a release of $0.3 million restricted cash previously used to collateralize outstanding letters of credit with Silicon Valley Bank. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $4.6 million of amortization of intangible assets, $3.7 million of stock-based compensation, $2.5 million of depreciation and amortization and $0.3 million of amortization of premiums related to available-for-sale securities. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities of $5.6 million in the three months ended March 26, 2016 consisted of $7.0 million in maturities of marketable securities, which provide higher yields than money market funds, partially offset by $1.5 million in capital expenditures for purchases of test equipment, computer equipment and software. Our cash used in investing activities of $7.3 million in the three months ended March 28, 2015 consisted of $5.6 million in net purchases of marketable securities, which provide higher yields than money market funds, and $1.7 million in capital expenditures for purchases of test equipment, computer equipment and software. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $13.0 million in the three months ended March 26, 2016 primarily consisted of $12.8 million in repurchases of common stock and $0.3 million in payment of payroll taxes for the vesting of awards under equity incentive plans. Net cash provided by financing activities of $0.1 million in the three months ended March 28, 2015 consisted of $0.6 million in proceeds from the exercises of stock options, offset by $0.5 million in payment of payroll taxes for the vesting of awards under equity incentive plans. Stock Repurchase Program On April 26, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a program to repurchase up to $40 million of our common stock from time to time. Stock may be purchased under this program in open market or private transactions, through block trades, and/or pursuant to any trading plan adopted in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act. Any open market purchases will be made in accordance with the limitations set out in Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. The decision to consummate any repurchases (including any decision to adopt a 10b5-1 plan for this purpose) will be made at managements discretion at prices management considers to be attractive and in the best interests of the company and its stockholders. Our stock repurchase commenced in May 2015 and the program was completed in March 2016. During the three months ended March 26, 2016 , we repurchased 1,789,287 shares of common stock for $12.8 million at an average price of $7.16 per share. As of March 26, 2016 , we have completed the $40 million stock repurchase program and have repurchased a total of 5,329,817 shares of common stock from May 2015 to March 2016 at an average price of $7.50 per share . Working Capital and Capital Expenditure Needs We currently have no material cash commitments, except for normal recurring trade payables, expense accruals, operating leases and non-cancelable firm purchase commitments. We expect our working capital needs to increase related to turnkey arrangements where we may purchase some equipment and materials at the outset of the project, but generally do not expect payment until completion of associated services, which may be one or more quarters later. In addition, we believe that our outsourced approach to manufacturing provides us significant flexibility in both managing inventory levels and financing our inventory. In the event that our revenue plan does not meet our expectations, we may eliminate or curtail expenditures to mitigate the impact on our working capital. We have a credit facility with an aggregate principal amount of up to $50.0 million . The credit facility matures in September 2018, as amended. Proceeds of the credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes and permitted acquisitions. As of March 26, 2016 , there was $50.0 million available for borrowing under this credit facility. We believe based on our current operating plan, our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and amounts available under our credit facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the acquisition of new capabilities or technologies and the continued market acceptance of our products. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The Companys principal commitments consist of obligations under operating leases for office space and non-cancelable outstanding purchase obligations. These commitments are disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 , and have not changed materially during the three months ended March 26, 2016 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 26, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 23 Table of Contents