ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenue or other financial items, any statement of or concerning the following: the plans and objectives of management for future operations, proposed new products or licensing, product development, anticipated customer demand or capital expenditures, future economic and/or market conditions or performance and assumptions underlying any of the above. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expects, believes, intends, plans, anticipates, estimates, projects, potential, or continue or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including those identified in the Risk Factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A, in the discussion below, as well as in other sections of this report 14 Table of Contents and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 . All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. Overview We are a leading global provider of cloud and software platforms, systems and services for fiber- and copper-based network architectures and a pioneer in software defined access and cloud products focused on access networks and the subscriber. Our portfolio allows for a broad range of subscriber services to be provisioned and delivered over a single unified network. Our access systems can deliver voice and data services, advanced broadband services, mobile broadband, as well as high-definition video and online gaming. Our most recent generation of premises systems enable CSPs to address the complexity of the smart home and business and offer new services to their device enabled subscribers. We have designed all of our current platforms and related systems so that they can be monitored, analyzed, managed and supported by Calix Cloud. We market our cloud and software platforms, systems and services to CSPs globally through our direct sales force as well as select resellers. Our customers range from smaller, regional CSPs to some of the worlds largest CSPs. We have enabled over 1,500 customers to deploy passive optical, Active Ethernet and point-to-point Ethernet fiber access networks. In the third quarter of 2018, the United States enacted tariffs on certain goods manufactured in China and proposed increasing the tariffs to 25% initially commencing in January 2019 and subsequently deferred the increase in tariffs pending trade negotiations between the United States and China. We incurred U.S. tariff and tariff-related costs of $3.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 and $2.2 million in the first quarter of 2019. In order to mitigate the impact of these tariffs, we undertook a broad plan to realign our global supply chain by moving substantially all of our production outside of China in addition to other supply chain improvements. In the first quarter of 2019, we transitioned substantially all of our product supply out of China. As a result, we expect U.S. tariff and tariff-related costs to decrease in the second and third quarters of 2019, however, the costs associated with realigning our supply chain will continue through this period. Our revenue was $89.4 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 , compared to $99.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The $10.1 million decrease in revenue was primarily due to product shortages related to production delays associated with our global supply chain realignment efforts. Our revenue and potential revenue growth will depend on our ability to quickly resolve these supply chain challenges and ensure our supply chain operations are able to meet our product supply needs. Our revenue and potential revenue growth will also depend on our ability to sell and license our cloud and software platforms, systems and services to existing customers as well as our ability to attract new customers, particularly larger CSPs, in the United States and internationally. Revenue fluctuations result from many factors, including, but not limited to: increases or decreases in customer orders for our products and services, market, financial or other factors that may delay or materially impact customer purchasing decisions, non-availability of products due to supply chain challenges, contractual terms with customers that result in delayed revenue recognition and varying budget cycles and seasonal buying patterns of our customers. More specifically, our customers tend to spend less in the first quarter as they are finalizing their annual budgets, and in certain regions, customers are challenged by winter weather conditions that inhibit fiber deployment in outside infrastructure. Our revenue is also dependent upon our customers timing of purchases, capital expenditure plans and decisions to upgrade their network or adopt new technologies, including expenditure plans for turnkey solutions projects, which are generally non-recurring in nature. Cost of revenue is strongly correlated to revenue and tends to fluctuate due to all of the above factors that may cause revenue fluctuations. Factors that impacted our cost of revenue for the three months ended March 30, 2019 , and that we expect will impact cost of revenue in future periods, also include: changes in the mix of products delivered, customer location and regional mix, changes in product warranty and incurrence of retrofit costs, changes in the cost of our inventory, including higher costs due to materials shortages, supply constraints or unfavorable changes in trade policies, tariffs and associated costs to mitigate the impact of tariffs, and inventory write-downs. Cost of revenue also includes fixed expenses related to our internal operations, which could impact our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue if there are large fluctuations in revenue. Our gross profit and gross margin fluctuate based on timing of factors such as new product introductions or upgrades to existing products, changes in customer mix and changes in the mix of products demanded and sold (and any related write-downs of existing inventory) and may be negatively impacted by increases in mix of revenue towards professional services, increases in mix of revenue from channel sales rather than direct sales or other unfavorable customer or product mix, shipment volumes and any related volume discounts, changes in our product and services costs, pricing decreases or discounts, customer rebates and incentive programs due to competitive pressure or materials shortages, supply constraints, tariffs or unfavorable changes in trade policies. Our operating expenses fluctuate based on the following factors: changes in headcount and personnel costs, which comprise a significant portion of our operating expenses; variable compensation due to fluctuations in shipment volumes or meeting 15 Table of Contents financial performance metrics; timing of research and development expenses, including investments in innovative solutions and new customer segments, prototype builds and outsourced development projects; investments in our business and information technology infrastructure, including our investments to migrate our ERP system; and fluctuations in stock-based compensation expenses due to timing of equity grants or other factors affecting vesting. For the three months ended March 30, 2019 as compared with the corresponding period in 2018, our total operating expenses decreased by $5.7 million largely due to restructuring actions we took in 2017 and early 2018. These restructuring actions were completed in the second quarter of 2018. Our net loss was $9.8 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 , compared to a net loss of $11.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Since our inception we have incurred significant losses, and as of March 30, 2019 , we had an accumulated deficit of $694.6 million . Further, as a result of factors contributing to the fluctuations described above among other factors, many of which are outside our control, our quarterly operating results fluctuate from period to period. Comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates and judgments that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. Management bases its estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial statements may be affected. Our management evaluates its estimates, assumptions and judgments on an ongoing basis. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are described under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 . For the three months ended March 30, 2019 , there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 Revenue Our revenue is comprised of the following: Systems include revenue from the sale of access and premises systems, software platform licenses and cloud-based software subscriptions. Services include revenue from professional services, customer support, software- and cloud-based maintenance, extended warranty subscriptions, training and managed services. The following table sets forth our revenue (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Revenue: Systems $ 82,360 $ 93,291 $ (10,931 ) (12 )% Services 6,990 6,112 878 14 % $ 89,350 $ 99,403 $ (10,053 ) (10 )% Percent of total revenue: Systems 92 % 94 % Services 8 % 6 % 100 % 100 % 16 Table of Contents Our revenue decreased by $10.1 million , or 10% , for the three months ended March 30, 2019 , as compared to the corresponding period in 2018 due to lower systems revenue of $10.9 million offset by higher services revenue of $0.9 million . The decline in systems revenue was primarily due to product shortages due to production challenges and delays associated with our global supply chain realignment efforts. The increase in services revenue was primarily due to increases in support services revenue. We currently expect production and product availability to improve in the second quarter and we have targeted resources to prioritize our efforts to meet current planned customer requirements. However, if we are not able to resolve the supply chain challenges to ensure adequate product availability to meet customer needs, our revenue would be further negatively impacted. For the three months ended March 30, 2019 , revenue generated in the United States was $75.8 million , or 85% of our total revenue, compared to $89.4 million , or 90% of our total revenue, for the same period in 2018 . International revenue was $13.6 million , or 15% of our total revenue, for the three months ended March 30, 2019 , as compared to $10.0 million , or 10% of our total revenue, for the same period in 2018 . We had one customer that accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue for the first quarter of 2019 and 2018. See Note 8 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more details on concentration of revenue for the periods presented. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin The following table sets forth our cost of revenue (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Cost of revenue: Systems $ 44,601 $ 51,633 $ (7,032 ) (14 )% Services 6,406 5,711 695 12 % $ 51,007 $ 57,344 $ (6,337 ) (11 )% Our cost of revenue decrease d by $6.3 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 , as compared with the corresponding period in 2018 . This was primarily attributable to lower systems revenue for the three months ended March 30, 2019, as compared with the corresponding period in 2018, mainly due to the product shortages described above, partially offset by U.S. tariffs and tariff-related costs of $2.2 million in the first quarter of 2019. The following table sets forth our gross profit and gross margin (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Gross profit: Systems $ 37,759 $ 41,658 $ (3,899 ) (9 )% Services 584 401 183 46 % $ 38,343 $ 42,059 $ (3,716 ) (9 )% Gross margin: Systems 45.8 % 44.7 % Services 8.4 % 6.6 % Overall 42.9 % 42.3 % Gross profit decrease d to $38.3 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 , from $42.1 million during the corresponding period in 2018 due to lower sales. Gross margin remained relatively consistent for the three months ended March 30, 2019 compared to the corresponding period in 2018. During the first quarter of 2019, systems gross margin was negatively impacted by U.S. tariff and tariff-related costs of $2.2 million , or 260 basis points. Excluding the impact of U.S. tariff and tariff-related costs, systems gross margin was 48.5% . The increase in systems gross margin compared to the year ago period is primarily due to an increasing mix of new systems that have higher gross margin than some of our older traditional systems. Services gross margin for the first quarter of 2019 increased 180 basis points from the year ago period primarily from an increase in mix toward higher margin support services, partially offset by investments in customer success and support personnel to support the expansion of our cloud and customer support offerings. 17 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 19,330 $ 25,536 $ (6,206 ) (24 )% Percent of total revenue 22 % 26 % The decrease in research and development expenses by $6.2 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 as compared with the corresponding period in 2018 was primarily due to the leverage of our software platforms enabling us to lower our level of investment and introduce new products faster. During 2017 and the first quarter of 2018, we restructured our business to increase our focus towards investments in these software platforms and to reduce the expense structure in our traditional systems business. As a result, our research and development personnel decreased in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the corresponding period in 2018, which resulted in lower compensation and employee benefits of $4.7 million . The decrease was also due to lower expenses for outside services of $1.3 million and lower expenditures relating to prototype and expendable equipment of $0.2 million . Sales and Marketing Expenses The following table sets forth our sales and marketing expenses (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Sales and marketing $ 19,339 $ 19,901 $ (562 ) (3 )% Percent of total revenue 22 % 20 % Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 30, 2019 decreased by $0.6 million compared with the corresponding period in 2018 primarily due to lower personnel costs of $0.7 million , including commissions. General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our general and administrative expenses (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent General and administrative $ 8,787 $ 9,095 $ (308 ) (3 )% Percent of total revenue 10 % 9 % General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 30, 2019 decreased by $0.3 million compared with the corresponding period in 2018 mainly due to a decrease in professional services. This was largely a result of our adoption of a new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2018, which allows us to capitalize certain implementation costs related to our project to migrate our on-premise ERP system to a cloud model. We expect to go live with our cloud system in the later part of 2019 at which point we will begin amortizing the capitalized implementation costs. Gain on Sale of Product Line In the first quarter of 2018, we recognized a gain of $6.7 million relating to the sale of our outdoor cabinet product line to Clearfield, Inc. for $10.4 million. Restructuring Charges We incurred restructuring charges of $5.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 , consisting primarily of severance and other termination related benefits. 18 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The following table sets forth our provision for income taxes (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 30, 2019 March 31, 2018 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Provision for income taxes $ 155 $ 110 $ 45 41 % Effective tax rate (1.6 )% (0.9 )% The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 30, 2019 was determined using an estimated annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete items, if any, that occurred during the respective periods. Deferred tax assets are recognized if realization of such assets is more likely than not. We have established and continue to maintain a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets, with the exception of certain foreign deferred tax assets, as we do not believe that realization of those assets is more likely than not. Our effective tax rate may be subject to fluctuation during the year as new information is obtained, which may affect the assumptions used to estimate the annual effective tax rate, including factors such as the mix of forecasted pre-tax earnings in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, the recognition or de-recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions, and changes in or the interpretation of tax laws in jurisdictions where we conduct business. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations and investing activities primarily through cash generated from operations, borrowings on our line of credit, equipment financing arrangements for financing certain lab equipment and sales of our common stock. As of March 30, 2019 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $44.1 million , which consisted of deposits held at banks and money market mutual funds held at major financial institutions. Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $0.4 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 and consisted of a net loss of $9.8 million partially offset by $3.9 million of cash flow increases reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities and by $5.5 million of non-cash charges. Cash flow increases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in accounts receivable of $11.8 million , mainly due to lower sales, a decrease in inventory of $2.9 million , primarily due to unavailability of finished goods from our supply chain partners, and an increase in deferred revenue of $0.7 million due to increased sales of license subscriptions and related support. This was partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $6.3 million , primarily due to a commensurate decline in cost of revenue, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.9 million , mainly due to inventory sold to a CM and not yet paid, a decrease in other long-term liabilities of $1.7 million , mainly due to the amortization of operating lease liabilities, and a decrease in accrued liabilities of $1.6 million , mainly related to a decrease in accrued professional and consulting fees and a decrease in accrued business events. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $3.1 million and depreciation and amortization of $2.3 million . During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash used in operating activities was $5.8 million and consisted of a net loss of $11.1 million, partially offset by $7.0 million of cash flow increases reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities and $1.1 million of non-cash charges. Cash flow increases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in accounts receivable of $25.1 million mainly due to collection from one of our key customers that delayed payment from year end to early January 2018 and a decrease in inventory of $2.5 million primarily due to the timing of inventory receipts from our manufacturers. This was partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $17.9 million primarily due to a commensurate decline in cost of revenue and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $2.5 million mainly due to prepayment for software as a service tools and deposits with vendors. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $2.8 million, depreciation and amortization of $2.6 million and gain on sale of product line of $6.7 million. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $5.0 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 consisted of capital expenditures primarily for purchases of test equipment, computer equipment and software, including capitalized costs associated with our ERP system migration. 19 Table of Contents Net cash provided by investing activities of $8.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 consisted of cash proceeds of $10.4 million from the sale of our outdoor cabinet product line partially offset by capital expenditures of $1.9 million for purchases of test equipment, computer equipment and software. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $0.4 million for the three months ended March 30, 2019 mainly consisted of $0.7 million of payments for financing arrangements partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock from stock option exercises. Net cash provided by financing activities was de minimis for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Financing activities in both periods included our borrowings and repayments under our $30.0 million line of credit pursuant to our Loan Agreement with SVB. Working Capital and Capital Expenditure Needs Our material cash commitments include contractual obligations under our Loan Agreement, normal recurring trade payables, compensation-related and expense accruals, operating leases and non-cancelable firm purchase commitments. We believe that our outsourced approach to manufacturing provides us significant flexibility in both managing inventory levels and financing our inventory. In the event that our revenue plan does not meet our expectations, we may be required to eliminate or curtail expenditures to mitigate the impact on our working capital. In August 2017, we entered into the Loan Agreement for a senior secured revolving credit facility with SVB, which provides for a revolving credit facility of up to $30.0 million based on a customary accounts receivable borrowing base, subject to certain exceptions for accounts originating outside the United States and certain specific accounts, which could reduce the amount available to us under the credit facility. The Loan Agreement includes affirmative and negative covenants and requires us to maintain a liquidity ratio at minimum levels specified in the Loan Agreement. For the month ended November 30, 2017, we were not able to maintain the minimum Adjusted Quick Ratio, or AQR (as defined in the Loan Agreement, as amended) at the level required in the Loan Agreement, which constituted an event of default. Although SVB waived this event of default effective as of November 30, 2017 and, therefore, this default did not change our ability to borrow under the Loan Agreement, we were required to amend certain covenants under the Loan Agreement. In February 2018, we entered into an amendment to the Loan Agreement that, among other things, amended certain affirmative financial covenants, including reductions to the required minimum level of the AQR and the inclusion of an additional financial covenant related to the maintenance of Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Loan Agreement, as amended). In August 2018, we entered into a second amendment to the Loan Agreement that, among other things, extended the maturity date from August 7, 2019 to August 7, 2020, amended certain financial covenants, including covenants with respect to the AQR and Adjusted EBITDA, and changed the compliance requirements for the AQR covenant from a monthly basis to a quarterly basis. In February 2019, we entered into a third amendment to the Loan Agreement to reduce the required minimum level of the AQR for the first half of 2019 and the required minimum Adjusted EBITDA for the first fiscal quarter of 2019 to accommodate the increased costs and use of cash that we anticipate for the first half of 2019 related to activities to mitigate the impact of the U.S. tariffs. As of March 30, 2019 , we were in compliance with these covenants. Although we were compliant with the financial covenants under the Loan Agreement as of March 30, 2019 , given our current financial position and history of operating losses, it is possible that we may fail to meet the minimum levels required by the financial covenants in a future period. In particular, if we are unable to generate positive cash flows on a continued basis, we could fall below the minimum AQR requirement, and if we are unable to achieve and maintain profitability, we may not be able to meet our Adjusted EBITDA requirement, each of which would constitute an event of default under the Loan Agreement. As of March 30, 2019 , we borrowed the full principal amount under this line of credit of $30.0 million. Please refer to Note 5, Credit Agreements of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more details on this credit facility. During 2018, we entered into financing arrangements to purchase research and development equipment for approximately $5.1 million . Each agreement is to be paid over 36 months with a weighted average interest rate of 6.2%. As of March 30, 2019 , we had $4.2 million outstanding under these financing arrangements. During 2017 and 2019, in connection with the Companys ERP implementation, the cloud vendor agreed to finance the consulting services up to $4.2 million . The current amounts due under this agreement are to be paid over a weighted average term of 2.5 years with a weighted average interest rate of 6.9% . As of March 30, 2019 , there was $1.3 million outstanding under this arrangement, which is included in accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 20 Table of Contents We believe, based on our current operating plan and expected operating cash flows, that our existing cash and cash equivalents, along with future available borrowings under our SVB line of credit, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. We expect to continue to draw on the SVB line of credit from time to time to support our working capital needs. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth; timing of customer payments and payment terms, particularly of larger customers; the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, particularly research and development related to growth initiatives such as our software defined access portfolio, and our ability to partner with third parties to outsource our research and development projects; our ability to manage product cost, including the cost impact of the current U.S. tariffs as well as our ability to mitigate the cost impact through supply chain re-engineering as currently planned, the possibility of additional tariffs that may impact our product costs and higher component costs associated with new technologies; our ability to implement efficiencies and maintain product margin levels; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; the timing of introductions and customer adoption of new products and enhancements to existing products; the slowdowns or declines in customer purchases of traditional systems; acquisition of new capabilities or technologies; and the continued market acceptance of our products. If we are unable to execute on our current operating plan or generate positive operating income and positive cash flows, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected and we may fail to comply with the covenants in the Loan Agreement, in which case we may not be able to borrow under the SVB line of credit. In particular, although we have moved substantially all of our production out of China to avoid incurrence of U.S. tariffs, we continue to incur costs for our supply chain re-engineering. Furthermore, re-engineering of our supply chain to mitigate the impact of the tariffs requires significant effort and we have experienced significant production challenges resulting in product shortages that have negatively impacted our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. We are heavily dependent upon third party supply partners for our supply chain operations, and we may not be able to resolve these production challenges as quickly as desired and may incur higher costs than initially planned associated with these efforts. Moreover, there remains uncertainty as to the scope of the tariffs and whether additional tariffs or other measures may be imposed that could have further cost impact to us. We may need to seek other sources of liquidity, including the sale of equity or incremental borrowings, to support our working capital needs. In addition, we may choose to seek other sources of liquidity even if we believe we have generated sufficient cash flows to support our operational needs. There is no assurance that any other sources of liquidity may be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain other sources of liquidity, we will be forced to limit our development activities, reduce our investment in growth initiatives and institute cost-cutting measures, all of which may adversely impact our business and potential growth. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments as of March 30, 2019 consisted of our contractual obligations under the Loan Agreement, equipment financing arrangements, operating leases for office space and non-cancelable outstanding purchase obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at March 30, 2019 (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More Than 5 Years Line of credit, including interest (1) $ 32,854 $ 2,106 $ 30,748 $ $ Financing arrangements (2) 5,893 2,646 3,247 Operating lease obligations (3) 22,337 3,385 7,038 6,737 5,177 Non-cancelable purchase commitments (4) 64,176 48,362 8,390 7,424 $ 125,260 $ 56,499 $ 49,423 $ 14,161 $ 5,177 (1) Line of credit contractual obligations include projected interest payments over the term of the Loan Agreement, assuming interest rate in effect for the outstanding borrowings as of March 30, 2019 of 7% and payment of the borrowings on August 7, 2020, the contractual maturity date of the credit facility. See Note 5, Credit Agreements of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion regarding our contractual obligations relating to our line of credit. (2) Represents installment payments, including interest, for financing arrangements. See Note 5, Credit Agreements of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion regarding our outstanding purchase commitments. (3) Future minimum operating lease obligations in the table above include primarily payments for our office locations, which expire at various dates through 2025. See Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion regarding our operating leases. 21 Table of Contents (4) Represents outstanding purchase commitments for inventory and services to be delivered by our suppliers, including CMs, original design manufacturers (ODMs) and engineering service providers. See Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion regarding our outstanding purchase commitments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.