ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statement of or concerning the following: the plans and objectives of management for future operations, proposed new products or licensing, product development, anticipated customer demand or capital expenditures, future economic and/or market conditions or performance, and assumptions underlying any of the above. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as may, will, expects, believes, intends, plans, anticipates, estimates, projects, potential, or continue or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such expectations or any of the forward-looking statements will prove to be correct, and actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, including those identified in the Risk Factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A, in the discussion below, as well as in other sections of this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 . All forward-looking statements and reasons why results may differ included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are made as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements or reasons why actual results might differ. Overview We are a leading global provider of broadband communications access platforms, systems and software for fiber- and copper-based network architectures and a pioneer in software defined access that enable CSPs to transform their networks and enhance how they connect to their residential and business subscribers. We enable CSPs to provide a wide range of revenue-generating services, from basic voice and data to advanced broadband services, over legacy and next-generation access networks. We focus solely on CSP access networks, the portion of the network that governs available bandwidth and determines the range and quality of services that can be offered to subscribers. We develop and sell carrier-class hardware and cloud products that are designed to enhance and transform CSP access networks to meet the changing demands of subscribers rapidly and cost-effectively. We believe that continued innovation and investment in advanced platforms and systems are important elements of our growth strategy. Our most advanced systems operate on AXOS, a network operating system and software platform built for the specific needs of the access network that allows for all software functions in the access network to be developed and run without dependence on underlying hardware and associated silicon chipsets. We market our access systems and related software to CSPs globally through our direct sales force as well as a growing number of resellers. At the end of the first quarter of 2017 , over 23 million ports of the Calix portfolio have been deployed at a growing number of CSPs worldwide. Our customers include many of the worlds largest CSPs. In addition, we have enabled over 1,300 customers to deploy gigabit passive optical network, Active Ethernet and point-to-point Ethernet fiber access networks. Our revenue was $117.5 million for the three months ended April 1, 2017 , compared to $98.4 million for the three months ended March 26, 2016 . Our revenue levels and continued revenue growth will depend on our ability to continue to sell our access systems and software to existing customers and to attract new customers, particularly larger CSPs, globally. Since 2015, we have seen increased market demand for turnkey solutions that include professional services together with the supply of equipment and materials, including a project we commenced in 2015 with one of our existing customers and substantially completed during the first quarter of 2017. We continue to ramp our professional services business to meet this demand because we believe that these services enable us to offer broader solutions to meet customer needs as well as support our long-term growth initiatives. Revenue for such projects is generally recognized only when project requirements are completed, which typically requires longer periods depending on the nature and scope of the project. Similarly, some of the costs incurred by us for such projects, including labor and related costs, are deferred and recognized to cost of revenue when the associated revenue is recognized. Revenue fluctuations result from many factors, including: increases or decreases in customer orders for our products and services, large customer purchase agreements with delayed revenue recognition, varying budget cycles and seasonal buying patterns of our customers. More specifically, our customers tend to spend less in the first fiscal quarter as they are finalizing their annual budgets, and in certain regions, customers are also challenged by winter weather conditions that inhibit fiber deployment in outside plants. Our revenue levels are also 17 Table of Contents dependent upon our customers timing of purchases and capital expenditure plans, including expenditure plans for turnkey solutions projects, which are generally non-recurring in nature. As of April 1, 2017 , we had approximately $29.6 million in deferred revenue related to ongoing work in turnkey network improvement projects that will be recognized only upon acceptance by customers. The timing of recognition of deferred revenue may cause significant fluctuations in our revenue and operating results from period to period. Cost of revenue is strongly correlated to revenue and tends to fluctuate from all of the above factors that could impact revenue. Factors that impacted our cost of revenue for the first quarter of 2017 , and that may impact cost of revenue in future periods, also include: changes in the mix of products delivered, increases in services as a mix of total revenue as well as timing of completion of professional services project requirements, higher than anticipated costs associated with delivery of services for which project pricing is typically set at the outset of the project, charges related to cost overruns on services projects, customer location and regional mix, changes in product warranty and incurrence of retrofit costs, changes in the cost of our inventory and inventory write-downs. Cost of revenue also includes fixed expenses related to our internal operations, which could impact our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue if there are large fluctuations in revenue. Cost of revenue has a direct impact on gross profit and gross margins. During the first quarter of 2017 , our gross profit and gross margin continue to be negatively impacted by an increase in our services revenue, which carries lower gross margin, as a mix of total revenue. We have continued to incur higher costs related to developing and growing our professional services business for turnkey network improvement projects. We also incurred higher costs and cost overruns associated with delivery of services due to project delays and rework needed to complete services projects, as well as an increased pace of services activities to complete project requirements during the first quarter of 2017 . In addition, our gross profit and gross margin fluctuate based on timing of factors such as new product introduction or upgrades to existing products, changes in customer mix, changes in the mix of products demanded and sold (and any related write-downs of existing inventory), increase in mix of revenue towards professional services, increase in mix of revenue from channel sales rather than direct sales or other unfavorable customer or product mix, shipment volumes and any related volume discounts, changes in our product and services costs, pricing decreases or discounts, customer rebates and incentive programs due to competitive pressure. The timing of our recognition of deferred revenue and related deferred costs related to turnkey professional services projects could also result in lower gross profit and gross margin in the periods such revenue is recognized, and the relative size of these arrangements could cause large fluctuations in our gross profit from period to period. Moreover, to the extent that deferred cost of revenue relating to the professional services portion of turnkey projects is determined to be unrecoverable, we incur a charge to cost of revenue in the period such cost is determined to be unrecoverable. Our operating expenses have fluctuated based on the following factors: changes in headcount and personnel costs which comprise a significant portion of our operating expenses, timing of variable compensation expenses due to fluctuations in order volumes, timing of research and development expenses including prototype builds and outsourced development projects, fluctuations in stock-based compensation expenses due to timing of equity grants or other factors affecting vesting, changes in acquisition-related expenses, and timing of legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with the Occam litigation. During the first quarter of 2017 , our total operating expense increased due to increases in headcount and outside contractors, primarily for research and development and, to a lesser extent, as a result of increased severance-related expenses incurred in the first quarter of 2017 . In March 2017, we adopted a restructuring plan to realign our business to increase focus towards investments in software defined access systems and software and to reduce costs in our traditional systems business, which we estimate will result in pre-tax restructuring charges totaling up to $6.8 million for fiscal year 2017, $0.7 million of which we incurred during the first quarter of 2017. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase in absolute dollar amounts but will decline as a percentage of revenue over time. During the first quarter of 2017, our costs, operating expenses and working capital needs increased primarily due to the continued growth of our professional services operations to meet customer and market demand for turnkey network improvement projects and higher research and development expenditures in strategic investments in our platform, systems and software. We focus our research and development efforts on innovative technologies that we believe will grow our customer base, including the pursuit of larger customer opportunities. We expect to continue to incur higher capital and operating expenditures, and higher levels of cash use, related to our investments in these initiatives as we seek to grow our market share. Our net loss was $33.3 million for the three months ended April 1, 2017 , compared to a net loss of $10.7 million for the three months ended March 26, 2016 . Since our inception we have incurred significant losses and, as of April 1, 2017 , we had an accumulated deficit of $617.7 million . Further, as a result of the fluctuations described above and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, our quarterly operating results fluctuate from period to period. Comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates and judgments that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. Management bases its estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. Our management evaluates its estimates, assumptions and judgments on an ongoing basis. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are described under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 . During the three months ended April 1, 2017 , there have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates. 18 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 and March 26, 2016 Revenue Our revenue is comprised of the following: Systems includes revenue derived from the sale of access systems and cloud-based software products. Services includes revenue from professional services, software support services for access systems, extended warranty and training services. The following table sets forth our revenue (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Revenue: Systems $ 91,605 $ 91,680 $ (75 ) % Services 25,913 6,695 19,218 287 % Total revenue $ 117,518 $ 98,375 $ 19,143 19 % Percent of total revenue: Systems 78 % 93 % Services 22 % 7 % Total 100 % 100 % Our revenue increased by $19.1 million or 19% for the three months ended April 1, 2017 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . This was mainly due to an increase in services revenue by $19.2 million or 287% , primarily driven by substantial completion of services associated with turnkey network improvement projects. During the three months ended April 1, 2017 , revenue generated in the United States was $106.5 million or approximately 91% of our total revenue, compared to $87.9 million or approximately 89% of our total revenue for the same period in 2016 . International revenue was $11.0 million or approximately 9% of our total revenue for the three months ended April 1, 2017 , compared to $10.5 million or approximately 11% of our total revenue for the same period in 2016 . We had two customers that each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue during the three months ended April 1, 2017 . See Note 2 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more details on concentration of revenue for the periods presented. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin The following table sets forth our cost of revenue (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Cost of revenue: Systems $ 57,373 $ 47,693 $ 9,680 20 % Services 25,768 5,200 20,568 396 % Total cost of revenue $ 83,141 $ 52,893 $ 30,248 57 % Our cost of revenue increase d by $30.2 million during the three months ended April 1, 2017 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . This was primarily attributable to an increase in services cost of revenue by $20.6 million as we experienced a higher pace of services activities, including higher costs attributed to rework and overruns, for our turnkey network improvement projects in order to complete projects within planned timelines and to meet project requirements. Our systems cost of revenue also increase d by $9.7 million mainly due to higher shipments. Our warranty and retrofit costs also increased by approximately $1.3 million primarily driven by certain retrofit charges for two specific product families. Additionally, inventory write-downs attributed to slow moving inventories increased by approximately $1.0 million. 19 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our gross profit and gross margin (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Gross profit: Systems $ 34,232 $ 43,987 $ (9,755 ) (22 )% Services 145 1,495 (1,350 ) (90 )% Total gross profit $ 34,377 $ 45,482 $ (11,105 ) (24 )% Gross margin: Systems 37 % 48 % Services 1 % 22 % Total gross margin 29 % 46 % Gross profit decrease d to $34.4 million during the three months ended April 1, 2017 , from $45.5 million during the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . Gross margin decrease d to 29% during the three months ended April 1, 2017 , from 46% during the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 . The decrease in gross profit and gross margin during the three months ended April 1, 2017 was primarily due to an increase in revenue mix toward services revenue as we continued to grow our professional services business and the pace of activity increased in our turnkey network improvement projects in 2017 . Services revenue, particularly those relating to our turnkey network improvement projects, typically has higher associated costs and lower margins. The decrease was partly attributed to product and regional mix within systems, higher warranty and retrofit charges as well as higher inventory write-downs as described above. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses The following table sets forth our research and development expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 33,808 $ 22,773 $ 11,035 48 % Percent of total revenue 29 % 23 % The increase in research and development expenses by $11.0 million during the three months ended April 1, 2017 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to an increase in personnel for research and development, resulting in higher compensation and employee benefits of $4.8 million, to support our growing product portfolio, strategic investments in innovative solutions, including next generation solutions and new customer segments, and international market expansion. Expenses for outside contractors increased by $4.3 million and expenditures relating to prototype and expendable equipment used for research and development activities increased by approximately $1.4 million, primarily for development services including investments in next generation technologies to pursue broader growth opportunities. We are continuing our strategic investments in our portfolio. We intend to continue to invest in research and development to support our systems and software platforms in anticipation of expected growth opportunities. Sales and Marketing Expenses The following table sets forth our sales and marketing expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Sales and marketing $ 22,429 $ 19,062 $ 3,367 18 % Percent of total revenue 19 % 19 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses by $3.4 million during the three months ended April 1, 2017 , compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to an increase in compensation and employee benefits by $3.5 million attributed to higher commissions due to increased shipments and higher payroll related expenses arising from changes in personnel. We expect to continue our investments in sales and marketing in order to extend our market reach and grow our business in support of our key strategic initiatives. 20 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses The following table sets forth our general and administrative expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent General and administrative $ 10,257 $ 12,684 $ (2,427 ) (19 )% Percent of total revenue 9 % 13 % General and administrative expenses decreased by $2.4 million during the three months ended April 1, 2017 , compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2016 , primarily due to a decrease in legal fees and expenses incurred related to our defense in the Occam litigation by $3.6 million. The Occam litigation was settled in 2016; hence, no such costs were incurred in 2017. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in severance benefits by $0.5 million related to our separation agreement with our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, as well as an increase in other payroll related expenses by $0.8 million due to increase in headcount. Amortization of Intangible Asset The following table sets forth our amortization of intangible asset included in operating expenses (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Amortization of intangible asset $ $ 1,701 $ (1,701 ) (100 )% Percent of total revenue % 2 % The intangible asset had reached completion of its amortization period during the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Restructuring Charges The following table sets forth our restructuring charges (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Restructuring charges $ 699 $ $ 699 100 % Percent of total revenue 1 % % In connection with a restructuring plan we adopted in March 2017, we recognized approximately $0.7 million of restructuring charges during the three months ended April 1, 2017 consisting primarily of severance and other one-time termination benefits. See Note 13, Restructuring Charges of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details regarding this restructuring plan. Provision for Income Taxes The following table sets forth our provision for income taxes (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended April 1, 2017 March 26, 2016 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Provision for income taxes $ 673 $ 121 $ 552 456 % Effective tax rate (2.1 )% (1.1 )% The income tax provision for the three months ended April 1, 2017 and March 26, 2016 consisted primarily of foreign income taxes. The effective tax rate for the three months ended April 1, 2017 and March 26, 2016 was determined using an estimated annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete items, if any, that occurred during the respective periods. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended April 1, 2017 and March 26, 2016 is impacted by the change in foreign income tax expense. Deferred tax assets are recognized if realization of such assets is more likely than not. We have established and continues to maintain a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets, with the exception of certain foreign deferred tax assets, as we do not believe that realization of those assets is more likely than not. 21 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate may be subject to fluctuation during the year as new information is obtained, which may affect the assumptions used to estimate the annual effective tax rate, including factors such as the mix of forecasted pre-tax earnings in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, the recognition or de-recognition of tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions, and changes in or the interpretation of tax laws in jurisdictions where we conduct business. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations and investing activities primarily through cash generated from operations. At April 1, 2017 , we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $51.5 million , which consisted of deposits held at banks, money market mutual funds held at major financial institutions and highly liquid marketable securities such as corporate debt instruments, commercial paper and U.S. government agency securities. This includes $5.6 million of cash held by our foreign subsidiaries, primarily in China. Our current intent is to permanently reinvest our earnings from foreign operations outside the United States, and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate the earnings from foreign operations to fund our U.S. operations. Operating Activities During the three months ended April 1, 2017 , cash used in operating activities increased as we continued to invest in research and development to pursue broader market and customer opportunities. Furthermore, we have continued to grow our professional services business for turnkey network improvement projects (including CAF 2 projects) which, as described below, generally involve greater working capital needs at the outset as services and systems are supplied, while revenue and cash collections occur after projects are accepted. Net cash used in operations of $23.5 million in the three months ended April 1, 2017 consisted of a net loss of $33.3 million , partially offset by $3.0 million of cash flow increases reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities and $6.9 million of non-cash charges. Cash flow increases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $11.5 million net increase in deferred revenue and deferred cost of revenue as a result of additional deferral of revenue and associated costs related to turnkey network improvement projects , a $7.0 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to customer advance payments for turnkey services projects for one of our customers , and due to the timing of our payroll, sales commissions and other expenses accruals and payout, and a $0.3 million increase in accounts payable primarily due to the timing of inventory receipts and payments to our manufacturers. This was partially offset by a $12.9 million increase in accounts receivable mainly due to higher revenue billings for turnkey network improvement projects as we completed work for a number of project sites at the end of the first fiscal quarter , a $2.0 million increase in inventories primarily due to timing of inventory receipts, and a $1.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $3.5 million of stock-based compensation, $2.5 million of depreciation and amortization, and $0.8 million of amortization of intangible assets. Net cash provided by operations of $5.3 million in the three months ended March 26, 2016 consisted of a net loss of $10.7 million , more than offset by $8.2 million of non-cash charges and $7.8 million of cash flow increases reflected in the net change in assets and liabilities. Cash flow increases resulting from the net change in assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a $8.4 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to the timing of our sales commissions and other expenses accruals and payout, a $6.5 million decrease in inventories primarily due to higher inventory turnover, and a $3.4 million decrease in accounts receivable mainly due to strong collections, partially offset by a $8.5 million decrease in accounts payable primarily due to the timing of inventory receipts and payments to our manufacturers, a $1.4 million net decrease in deferred revenue and deferred cost of revenue as a result of revenue and cost recognition for previous shipments related to certain turnkey projects and RUS-funded contracts, and a $0.6 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $3.4 million of amortization of intangible assets, $2.7 million of stock-based compensation, $2.0 million of depreciation and amortization and $0.1 million of amortization of premiums related to available-for-sale securities. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities of $0.4 million in the three months ended April 1, 2017 consisted of $2.5 million in net maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $2.1 million in capital expenditures for purchases of test equipment, computer equipment and software. Our cash provided by investing activities of $5.6 million in the three months ended March 26, 2016 consisted of $7.0 million in maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $1.5 million in capital expenditures for purchases of test equipment, computer equipment and software. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $1.1 million in the three months ended April 1, 2017 primarily consisted of $1.1 million in payment of payroll taxes for the vesting of awards under equity incentive plans. Net cash used in financing activities of $13.0 million in the three months ended March 26, 2016 consisted of $12.8 million repurchases of common stock and $0.3 million in payment of payroll taxes for the vesting of awards under equity incentive plans. Stock Repurchase Program On April 26, 2015, our board of directors approved a program to repurchase up to $40 million of our common stock from time to time. This stock repurchase program commenced in May 2015 and was completed in March 2016 . Under this program, stock was purchasable in open market or private transactions, through block trades, and/or pursuant to any trading plan adopted in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act and any open market purchases were to be made in accordance with the 22 Table of Contents limitations set out in Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. Further, decisions to consummate repurchases (including any decision to adopt a 10b5-1 plan for this purpose) were to be made at managements discretion at prices management considered to be attractive and in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. During the three months ended March 26, 2016 , we repurchased 1,789,287 shares of common stock for $12.8 million at an average price of $7.16 per share. In March 2016, we completed purchases under the $40 million stock repurchase program and repurchased a total of 5,329,817 shares of common stock from May 2015 to March 2016 at an average price of $7.50 per share . Working Capital and Capital Expenditure Needs We currently have no material cash commitments, except for normal recurring trade payables, expense accruals, operating leases and non-cancelable firm purchase commitments. Our working capital needs related to turnkey network improvement arrangements have been substantial, and are expected to remain substantial, as under such arrangements, we generally purchase substantial equipment, components and materials and pay our subcontractors at the outset of a project, but we generally do not expect payment from our customers until completion and acceptance of the associated services, which may be one or more quarters later. We believe that our outsourced approach to manufacturing provides us significant flexibility in both managing inventory levels and financing our inventory. In the event that our revenue plan does not meet our expectations, we may eliminate or curtail expenditures to mitigate the impact on our working capital . We have a Credit Agreement that provides for an aggregate principal amount of up to $50.0 million , with any borrowings limited to a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement matures in September 2018. Proceeds of the credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes and permitted acquisitions . As of April 1, 2017 , no revolving loans were drawn under the Credit Agreement and, based on the consolidated leverage ratio requirements that limit available funds under the Credit Agreement, we have no funds available for borrowing under the Credit Agreement as of April 1, 2017. For a detailed discussion of our Credit Agreement, please refer to Note 11, Credit Facility of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q . We believe based on our current operating plan and operating cash flows, our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, particularly research and development related to growth initiatives such as our software defined access portfolio, the timing, extent and size of turnkey professional services projects and our ability to develop operational efficiencies and successfully scale that business , the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the acquisition of new capabilities or technologies and the continued market acceptance of our products. If we are unable to generate positive operating income and positive cash flows from operations, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. If we are unable to generate cash flows to support our operational needs, we may need to seek other sources of liquidity, including borrowings, to support our working capital needs. In addition, we may choose to seek other sources of liquidity even if we believe we have generated sufficient cash flows to support our operational needs. There is no assurance that any other sources of liquidity may be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain other sources of liquidity, we will be forced to limit our development activities, reduce our investment in growth initiatives and institute cost-cutting measures, all of which would adversely impact our business and growth. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under operating leases for office space and non-cancelable outstanding purchase obligations. These commitments are disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 , and have not changed materially during the three months ended April 1, 2017 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of April 1, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.