Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K, as well as the discussion under Item 1A. Risk Factors. For further discussion of the business, industry, our products and services, competitive strengths, and growth strategy, see Item 1. Business. Unless stated otherwise, the comparisons presented in this discussion and analysis refer to the year-over-year comparison of changes in our financial condition and results of operations as of and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2023 and June 30, 2022. Discussion of fiscal year 2022 items and the year-over year comparison of changes in our financial condition and results of operations as of and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022 and June 30, 2021 can be found in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, which was previously filed with the SEC on November 9, 2022. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. The changes in presentation did not affect our total revenues, total costs of sales, gross profit, total operating expenses, operating loss, net loss or net loss per common share. For further information on the presentation changes, see Item 1. Financial Statements Note 2. Accounting Policies. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Furthermore, the period to period comparison of our historical results is not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in the future. OVERVIEW OF THE COMPANY Cantaloupe, Inc. is a global technology leader powering self-service commerce. With over a million active locations across the globe processing more than a billion transactions every year, Cantaloupe is enabling businesses of all sizes to provide self-service experiences for consumers. The company's vertically integrated solutions fuel growth by offering micro-payments processing, enterprise cloud software, IoT technology, as well as kiosk and POS innovations. Cantaloupes end-to-end platform increases consumer engagement and sales revenue through digital payments, consumer promotions and loyalty programs, while providing business owners increased profitability by leveraging software to drive efficiencies across an entire operation. Cantaloupes solutions are used by a wide variety of consumer services in North America, Europe, Latin America, and Australia including vending machines, micro markets and smart retail, laundromats, metered parking terminals, amusement and entertainment venues, IoT services and more. The Company's fiscal year ends June 30. The Company generates revenue in multiple ways. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2023 and June 30, 2022, we derived approximately 82% of our revenue from subscription and transaction fees, and approximately 18% from equipment sales. Active Devices on our service include point of sale ("POS") electronic payment devices, certified payment software, or the servicing of similar third-party installed POS terminals. Customers can obtain POS electronic payment devices from us in the following ways: Purchasing devices directly from the Company or one of its authorized resellers; Financing devices under the Companys QuickStart Program, which are non-cancellable 60-months sales-type leases, through an unrelated equipment financing company, if available, or directly from the Company; and Renting devices under the Company's Cantaloupe ONE program, which are typically 36-months duration agreements. Highlights Highlights of the Company for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 are below: Approximately 29 thousand Active Customers and 1.17 million Active Devices (as defined in Item 1. Business) connected to our service; We migrated our cloud hosting services to Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform in July 2022. The completion of this migration supports our continued focus on ensuring we have a reliable, resilient and scalable infrastructure to support our growing network of devices and customers; We successfully closed on the acquisition of Three Square Market in December 2022; as a result, we have seen a successful acceleration in our micro market business where customers both existing and new are migrating their kiosks to the 32M platform; In December 2022, we held our first investor day at Nasdaq where we articulated our renewed vision and strategy; 30 We continued to see significant customer interest and growth in the newly launched Cantaloupe ONE Platform, a bundled subscription model, which provides operators the flexibility and predictability of a monthly, fixed subscription amount covering the hardware and service fees; We announced the general availability of the newly designed and updated Seed Driver mobile app, available on both Apple and Android. The Seed Driver app provides route drivers with a range of features to make servicing vending, micro market, and office coffees services (OCS) accounts more efficient and effective; We released the 2023 Micropayment Trends Report, which studied micropayment trends (transactions less than $10) at food and beverage vending and at amusement machines throughout the United States and Canada in 2022. We announced our first Seed software expansion in Europe with a Sweden-based customer HGM Dryckservice AB (HGM). HGM is leveraging Seed Markets to support their growing micro market business, which was made easier through the integration between 32Ms kiosk technology and the Seed platform. We unveiled the new Cantaloupe Go product line, bringing together all micro market and smart store technology under one cohesive brand. Showcased at the NAMA show 2023, customers were able to experience Cantaloupe Go kiosks, smart stores, and the Cantaloupe Go platform for kiosk and smart store management. We announced the unveiling and availability of Seed Pick Easy, a tablet-based warehouse picking system designed to deliver time and operational cost savings to operators of all sizes. Integrated with Seed and the Cantaloupe Go platform, formerly known as 32M, Seed Pick Easy allows customers to generate digital pick lists to the warehouse in seconds, so pickers can pre-kit faster and more efficiently. COVID-19 Update While there has not been any resurgence of the COVID-19 virus or new strains or variants emerge that significantly impacted the Company, its employees, or its customers, we have experienced lingering effects during fiscal year 2023. We incurred elevated component and supply chain costs necessary for the production and distribution of our hardware products. Additionally, schools and other organizations have re-opened which has led to increased foot-traffic to distributed assets containing our electronic payment solutions, but we have not seen a full return to the office. Many companies have implemented a hybrid approach requiring employees to work in the office several days a week and allow work from home for the remaining days. We have concluded that there have been no material impairments as a result of our evaluation for the year ended June 30, 2023. Where applicable, we have incorporated judgments and estimates of the expected impact of COVID-19 in the preparation of the financial statements based on information currently available. We will continue to monitor the situation and follow any guidance from federal, state, and local public health authorities. Given the potential uncertainty of the situation, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the longer-term repercussions of COVID-19 on our financial condition, result of operations or cash flows. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP, "GAAP"), and they conform to general practices in our industry. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. These estimates and strategic or economic assumptions may prove inaccurate or subject to variations and may significantly affect our reported results and financial position for the period or in future periods. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these areas could have a material impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. We apply critical accounting estimates consistently from period to period and intend that any change in methodology occur in an appropriate manner. Accounting estimates currently deemed critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations are listed below. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, see Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Revenue Recognition. The Company derives revenue primarily from the sale or lease of equipment and services to the small ticket, unattended POS market. The Companys application of the accounting principles in U.S. GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Complex arrangements may require significant judgment in contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. The Company assesses the goods and/or services promised in each customer contract and separately identifies a performance obligation for each promise to transfer to the customer a distinct good or service. The Company then allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract using relative standalone selling prices. The Company determines 31 standalone selling prices based on the price at which a good or service is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through historic data, the Company estimates the standalone selling price by considering all reasonably available information, including market data, trends, as well as other company- or customer-specific factors. Capitalization of internal-use software and cloud computing arrangements. We have significant expenditures associated with the technological maintenance and improvement of our network and technology offerings. These expenditures include both the cost of internal employees, who spend portions of their time on various technological projects, and the use of external temporary labor and consultants. Capitalization of internal-use software occurs when we have completed the preliminary project stage, management authorizes the project, management commits to funding the project, it is probable the project will be completed and the project will be used to perform the function intended. We are required to assess these expenditures and make a determination as to whether the costs should be expensed as incurred or are subject to capitalization. In making these determinations, we consider the stage of the development project, the probability of successful development and if the development is resulting in increased features and functionality. In addition, if we determine that a project qualifies for capitalization, the amount of capitalization is subject to various estimates, including the amount of time spent on the development work and the cost of internal employees and external consultants. Internal-use software is included within Property and equipment, net on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and is amortized over its estimated useful life, which is typically 3 to 7 years. We capitalize certain costs related to hosting arrangements that are service contracts (cloud computing arrangements) following the internal-use software capitalization criteria described above. Our cloud computing arrangements involve services we use to support internal corporate functions, our platforms and technology offerings. Capitalized costs relating to cloud computing arrangements are included within Prepaid expenses and other current assets or Other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life, which is typically 3 to 5 years. Goodwill. The Company operates under one operating segment with one reporting unit. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment utilizing either a qualitative or a quantitative goodwill impairment test. If we choose to perform a qualitative assessment and determine the fair value more likely than not exceeds the carrying value, no further evaluation is necessary. When we perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test, we compare the fair value of our reporting unit to its carrying value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then goodwill is not considered impaired. An impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which, if any, the carrying value exceeds the reporting units fair value. However, the loss recognized cannot exceed the reporting units goodwill balance. The quantitative impairment test process requires valuation of the reporting unit, which we determine using the income approach, the market approach or a combination of the two approaches. Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of the reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows derived from assumptions that include expected growth rates and revenues, projected expenses, discount rates, capital expenditures and income tax rates. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on the quoted stock price, recent equity transactions of our business, market transactions involving similar businesses and market comparables. Business Combination. The Company allocates acquisition purchase price to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition dates. The excess of total consideration over the fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, we make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. We engage a third-party valuation firm to assist in establishing the fair value of the acquired intangible assets. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. We review long-lived assets, such as finite-lived intangible assets, property and equipment and operating lease right-of-use assets for potential impairment, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. If the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flow is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment is indicated. A loss is then recognized for the difference, if any, between the fair value of the asset (as estimated by management using its best judgment) and the carrying value of the asset. If actual market value is less favorable than that estimated by management, additional write-downs may be required. Allowances for Accounts and Finance Receivables. We maintain lifetime expected loss allowances for accounts and finance receivables based on historical experience of payment performance, current conditions of the customer, and reasonable and supportable economic forecasts of collectability for the assets entire expected life, which is generally less than one year for accounts receivable and five years for finance receivables. Historical loss experience is utilized as there have been no significant changes in the mix or risk characteristics of the receivable revenue streams used to calculate historical loss rates. Current conditions are analyzed at each measurement date to reassess whether our receivables continue to exhibit similar risk characteristics as the prior measurement date, and determine if the reserve calculation needs to be adjusted for new developments, such as a customers inability to meet its financial obligations. Reasonable and supportable macroeconomic 32 trends also are incorporated into the analysis. Estimating the allowances therefore requires us to apply judgment in relying on historical customer payment experience, regularly analyzing the financial condition of our customers, and developing macroeconomic forecasts to adequately cover expected credit losses on our receivables. By nature, such estimates are highly subjective, and it is possible that the amount of receivables that we are unable to collect may be different than the amounts initially estimated in the allowances. Inventories. We determine the value of inventories using the lower of cost or net realizable value. We write down inventories for the difference between the carrying value of the inventories and their net realizable value. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional write-downs may be required. We estimate our reserves for inventory obsolescence by continuously examining our inventories to determine if there are indicators that carrying values exceed net realizable values. Experience has shown that significant indicators that could require the need for additional inventory write-downs are the age of the inventory, the length of its product life cycles, anticipated demand for our products, changes to technical standards required by payment companies or by law, and current economic conditions. While we believe that adequate write-downs for inventory obsolescence have been made in the consolidated financial statements, actual demand could be less than forecasted demand for our products and we could experience additional inventory write-downs in the future. Loss Contingencies. Loss contingencies are uncertain and unresolved matters that arise in the ordinary course of business and result from events or actions by others that have the potential to result in a future loss. Such contingencies include, but are not limited to, litigation. When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, we record a liability in the amount of our best estimate for the ultimate loss. When there appears to be a range of possible costs with equal likelihood, liabilities are based on the low-end of such range. However, the likelihood of a loss with respect to a particular contingency is often difficult to predict and determining a meaningful estimate of the loss or a range of loss may not be practicable based on the information available and the potential effect of future events and decisions by third parties that will determine the ultimate resolution of the contingency. Moreover, it is not uncommon for such matters to be resolved over many years, during which time relevant developments and new information must be continuously evaluated to determine both the likelihood of potential loss and whether it is possible to reasonably estimate a range of possible loss. Disclosure is provided for material loss contingencies when a loss is probable but a reasonable estimate cannot be made, and when it is reasonably possible that a loss will be incurred or when it is reasonably possible that the amount of a loss will exceed the recorded provision. We regularly review all contingencies to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or range of loss can be made. As discussed above, development of a meaningful estimate of loss or a range of potential loss is complex when the outcome is directly dependent on negotiations with or decisions by third parties, such as regulatory agencies, the court system and other interested parties. Such factors bear directly on whether it is possible to reasonably estimate a range of potential loss and boundaries of high and low estimates. Income Taxes. The carrying values of deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the application of our income tax accounting policies in accordance with applicable accounting standards and are based on managements assumptions and estimates regarding future operating results and levels of taxable income, as well as managements judgment regarding the interpretation of the provisions of applicable accounting standards. The carrying values of liabilities for income taxes currently payable are based on managements interpretations of applicable tax laws and incorporate managements assumptions and judgments regarding the use of tax planning strategies in various taxing jurisdictions. We evaluate the recoverability of these deferred tax assets by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income inherently rely heavily on estimates. We use our historical experience and our short and long-term business forecasts to provide insight. To the extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is established. Federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are reserved with a full valuation allowance because, based on the available evidence, we believe it is more likely than not that we would not be able to utilize those deferred tax assets in the future. If the actual amounts of taxable income differ from our estimates, the amount of our valuation allowance could be materially impacted. Sales tax reserve. The Company has recorded a contingent liability for sales tax, included in accrued expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. On a quarterly basis, the Company accrues interest on the unpaid balance. The estimated liability is adjusted upon the payment of sales tax related to the accrual, the changes in state tax laws that may impact the accrual and the expiration of the statute of limitations for open years under review. The liability includes significant judgments and estimates that may change in the future, and the actual liability may be different from our current estimate. 33 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table shows certain financial and non-financial data that management believes give readers insight into certain trends and relationships about the Companys financial performance. We believe the metrics (Active Devices, Active Customers, Total Number of Transactions and Total Dollar Volume of Transactions) are useful in allowing management and readers to evaluate our strategy of driving growth in devices and transactions. Active Devices Active Devices are devices that have communicated with us or have had a transaction in the last twelve months. Included in the number of Active Devices are devices that communicate through other devices that communicate or transact with us. For example, a self-service retail location that utilizes an ePort cashless payment device as well as Seed management services constitutes only one device. Active Customers The Company defines Active Customers as all customers with at least one Active Device. Total Number Of Transactions and Total Dollar Volume of Transactions Transactions are defined as electronic payment transactions that are processed by our technology-enabled solutions. Management uses Total Number of Transactions and Total Dollar Volume of Transactions to evaluate the effectiveness of our new customer strategy and ability to leverage existing customers and partners. As of and for the years ended June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 June 30, 2021 Devices: Active Devices (thousands) 1,168 1,137 1,094 Customers: Active Customers 28,584 23,991 19,834 Volumes: Total Number of Transactions (millions) 1,096.4 1,052.8 868.7 Total Dollar Volume of Transactions (millions) 2,646.0 2,286.7 1,756.6 Highlights for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 include: 1.17 million Active Devices as of June 30, 2023 compared to 1.14 million as of June 30, 2022, an increase of approximately 30 thousand Active Devices, or 3%; 28,584 Active Customers to our service as of June 30, 2023 compared to 23,991 as of June 30, 2022, an increase of 4,593 Active Customers, or 19%. $2.6 billion in dollar volume of transactions for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to$2.3 billion for the year ended June 30, 2022, an increase of $0.4 billion, or 16%. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS The following tables and charts summarize our results of operations and significant changes in our financial performance for the periods presented: 34 35 Revenues and Gross Profit Year Ended June 30, Percent Change ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2021 2023 v. 2022 2022 v. 2021 Revenues: Subscription and transaction fees $ 200,223 $ 168,850 $ 139,242 18.6 % 21.3 % Equipment sales 43,418 36,352 27,697 19.4 % 31.2 % Total revenue 243,641 205,202 166,939 18.7 % 22.9 % Costs of sales: Cost of subscription and transaction fees 119,715 103,392 83,617 15.8 % 23.6 % Cost of equipment sales 42,690 37,615 29,296 13.5 % 28.4 % Total costs of sales 162,405 141,007 112,913 15.2 % 24.9 % Gross profit: Subscription and transaction fees 80,508 65,458 55,625 23.0 % 17.7 % Equipment sales 728 (1,263) (1,599) 157.6 % 21.0 % Total gross profit $ 81,236 $ 64,195 $ 54,026 26.5 % 18.8 % Gross margin: Subscription and transaction fees 40.2 % 38.8 % 39.9 % Equipment sales 1.7 % (3.5) % (5.8) % Total gross margin 33.3 % 31.3 % 32.4 % Revenues Total revenues increased by $38.4 million from $205.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2022 to $243.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase was attributable to a $31.4 million increase in subscription and transaction fees and a $7.1 million increase in equipment sales. The increase in subscription and transaction fees was primarily driven by increased processing volumes, with an approximately 16% increase in total dollar volumes for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to the prior year. Our transaction fees increased $21.9 million, or 20% as we continue to benefit as businesses, schools and other organizations across the country continue to maintain normal levels of operations and due to an increase in the average price per transaction and total number of transactions relative to the prior year. Our subscription fees increased approximately $9.5 million, or 16% for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to the prior year which was attributed to a continued focus of management to grow our recurring subscription services to our customer base and a 3% increase in the Active Devices count compared to last year. Our 32M acquisition contributed $7.3 million in subscription and transaction fees for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase in equipment sales for the year ended June 30, 2023 was primarily driven by our 32M acquisition which contributed $5.9 million in total equipment sales. The remaining increase in equipment sales relates to more equipment shipments in the current fiscal year compared to the same period last year driven primarily by continued upgrades by our customers from 3G to 4G network compatible devices which was substantially completed as of December 31, 2022. Our average equipment pricing also improved during the current year as our customers have completed upgrading their hardware devices. In the prior year period, we offered strategic discounts to our existing customers to ensure their proper transitions into the new platform. Costs of sales Costs of sales increased $21.4 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to the year ended June 30, 2022. The increase was attributed to a $16.3 million and $5.1 million increase in subscription and transaction costs, and equipment costs respectively. The increase in cost of subscription and transaction fees was primarily driven by a corresponding increase in transaction processing fees including $2.9 million contributed by 32M. Similarly, the increase in the cost of equipment sales was driven by an increase in the volume of equipment sold during the current fiscal year, including $3.9 million contributed by 32M. 36 Gross Margin Total gross margin increased from 31.3% for the year ended June 30, 2022 to 33.3% for the year ended June 30, 2023. The increase in gross margin was primarily driven by an increase in our subscription fees revenue which is inherently a higher margin revenue stream. Additionally, our equipment sales gross margins improved from the prior year primarily driven by the diversification of our equipment sales after the 32M acquisition and higher margins on certain micro market equipment. Operating Expenses Year ended June 30, Percent Change Category ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2021 2023 v. 2022 2022 v. 2021 Sales and marketing $ 12,427 $ 8,908 $ 6,935 39.5 % 28.4 % Technology and product development 20,726 21,877 15,935 (5.3 %) 37.3 % General and administrative expenses 36,926 30,519 35,754 21.0 % (14.6 %) Investigation, proxy solicitation and restatement expenses, net of insurance recoveries (362) 1,196 (130.3 %) 100.0 % Integration and acquisition expenses 3,141 100.0 % % Depreciation and amortization 7,618 4,352 4,107 75.0 % 6.0 % Total operating expenses $ 80,476 $ 66,852 $ 62,731 20.4 % 6.6 % Total operating expenses. Operating expenses increased by $13.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to the prior year. The change was primarily attributed to an increase of $6.4 million in general and administrative expenses, a $3.5 million increase in sales and marketing costs, a $3.3 million increase in depreciation and amortization, and a $3.1 million increase in integration and acquisition expense, offset by a $1.6 million decrease in investigation, proxy solicitation and restatement expenses, and a $1.2 million decrease in technology and product development expenses. See further details within individual categories below. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased approximately $3.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to the year ended June 30, 2022. The change was primarily due to higher sales and marketing employee personnel cost in the current year, including $0.8 million from 32M, to support our expanding business and service offerings in the United States and international markets. Technology and product development. Technology and product development expenses decreased approximately $1.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to the year ended June 30, 2022. The decrease in the current year was driven by lower expensed personnel costs as we continued to invest in internal-use software which resulted in higher capitalized costs compared to the prior year. We continued to focus on our objectives of investing in innovative technologies, specifically advancing mobile enhancements across the Seed platform and the mobile loyalty platform for consumers. Additional expenses in technology were incurred to further strengthen our network environment and platform, which will provide our customers greater stability, reliability, and overall higher performance on processing transactions and transmitting data. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased approximately $6.4 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to the year ended June 30, 2022. The increase was primarily driven by a $3.6 million increase in personnel compensation cost, including $1.3 million from 32M, as a result of our growing business, a $1.9 million increase in professional service fees relating to additional compliance costs incurred as a result of prior year audit findings and remediation effort, and a $0.5 million increase in travel & entertainment expenses as business activities resumed gradually after the COVID-19 pandemic. Investigation, proxy solicitation and restatement expenses, net of insurance recoveries. Since fiscal year 2019, we have incurred significant expenses including audit, legal, consulting and other professional fees, in connection with the 2019 Investigation, proxy solicitation and restatement. During fiscal year 2023, the Company reached a settlement with the SEC to resolve its 2019 Investigation. As part of the settlement, the Company agreed to neither admit nor deny the findings in the SECs final order, and agreed to a cease-and-desist order with a civil monetary penalty payment of $1.5 million. The penalty payment was fully paid to the SEC as of June 30, 2023. Additionally, the Company received a $2.0 million reimbursement from its directors and officers (D&O) insurance policy for legal fees and expenses incurred in connection with the 2019 Investigation. The D&O reimbursement proceeds were recorded as a reduction of "Investigation, proxy and restatement expenses" on the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023. For fiscal year 2022, the Company incurred legal expenses primarily relating to responding to inquiries from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and SEC in regards to the 37 2019 Investigation. See Note 18 - Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report for further information on the above mentioned matters. Integration and acquisition. On December 1, 2022, the Company acquired all of the equity interests of 32M pursuant to an Equity Purchase Agreement. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, the Company incurred professional service fees of $3.1 million from accounting, legal, investing banking advisors and consulting services for the successful completion of the 32M acquisition, as well as the post-acquisition integration process. The Company did not incur any material integration and acquisition expenses for the fiscal year 2022. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $3.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to the prior year primarily due to a $1.7 million increase in intangible assets amortization as a result of the 32M acquisition and increased depreciation for our growing internal-use software as various projects and initiatives get implemented. Our increase in internal-use software is attributable to management's focus on developing innovative technologies to further strengthen our network environment and platform. Other income (expense), Net Year ended June 30, Percent Change Category ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2021 2023 v. 2022 2022 v. 2021 Other income (expense): Interest income $ 2,515 $ 1,884 $ 1,159 33.5 % 62.6 % Interest expense $ (2,326) $ (524) $ (4,013) 343.9 % (86.9 %) Other income (expense) (135) (220) 3,224 (38.6 %) (106.8 %) Total other income, net $ 54 $ 1,140 $ 370 (95.3 %) 208.1 % Other income (expense), Net Total other income, net for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 was $0.1 million, compared to $1.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2022. Our interest expense increased $1.8 million primarily due to our additional borrowing of $25 million to fund a portion of the 32M acquisition in the current year, partially offset by a $0.6 million increase in interest income driven by our equipment financing program. Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted earnings before income taxes, depreciation, and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial measure which is not required by or defined under GAAP. We use this non-GAAP financial measure for financial and operational decision-making purposes and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information about our operating results, enhances the overall understanding of past financial performance and future prospects and allows for greater transparency with respect to metrics used by our management in their financial and operational decision making. The presentation of this financial measure is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial measures prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, including our net income or net loss or net cash used in operating activities. Management recognizes that non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the items associated with our net income or net loss as determined in accordance with GAAP, and are not a substitute for or a measure of our profitability or net earnings. Adjusted EBITDA is presented because we believe it is useful to investors as a measure of comparative operating performance. Additionally, we utilize Adjusted EBITDA as a metric in our executive officer and management incentive compensation plans. We define Adjusted EBITDA as U.S. GAAP net loss before (i) interest income, (ii) interest expense on debt and sales tax reserves, (iii) income tax provision, (iv) depreciation, (v) amortization, (vi) stock-based compensation expense, (vii) fees and charges, net of reimbursement from insurance proceeds, that were incurred in connection with the 2019 Investigation and financial statement restatement activities as well as proxy solicitation costs that are not indicative of our core operations, (viii) one-time project expense, one-time severance expenses, and infrequent integration and acquisition expense, and (ix) certain other significant infrequent or unusual losses and gains that are not indicative of our core operations including asset impairment charges, and gain on extinguishment of debt. 38 Below is a reconciliation of U.S. GAAP net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2023, 2022, and 2021: Year ended June 30, ($ in thousands) 2023 2022 2021 Net income (loss) $ 633 $ (1,703) $ (8,705) Less: interest income (2,515) (1,884) (1,159) Plus: interest expense 2,326 524 4,013 Plus: income tax provision 181 186 370 Plus: depreciation expense included in cost of sales for rentals 1,189 973 1,404 Plus: depreciation and amortization expense in operating expenses 7,618 4,352 4,107 EBITDA 9,432 2,448 30 Plus: stock-based compensation (a) 4,737 6,248 9,075 Plus: investigation, proxy solicitation and restatement expenses, net of insurance recoveries (b) (362) 1,196 Plus: integration and acquisition expenses (c) 3,141 Plus: severance expenses (d) 273 Plus: remediation expenses (e) 573 Plus: asset impairment charge (f) 1,578 Less: gain on extinguishment of debt (g) (3,065) Adjustments to EBITDA 8,362 7,444 7,588 Adjusted EBITDA $ 17,794 $ 9,892 $ 7,618 (a) As an adjustment to EBITDA, we have excluded stock-based compensation, as it does not reflect our cash-based operations. (b) As an adjustment to EBITDA, we have excluded the costs and corresponding reimbursements related to the 2019 Investigation, because we believe that they represent charges that are not related to our core operations. During the year ended June 30, 2023, we incurred additional costs relating to the settlement of the 2019 Investigation, which was partially offset by a $2.0 million D&O insurance reimbursement for legal fees and expenses incurred in connection with the 2019 Investigation. Accordingly, Adjusted EBITDA contains a negative adjustment. (c) As an adjustment to EBITDA, we have excluded expenses incurred in connection with business acquisitions as it does not represent recurring costs or charges related to our core operations. (d) As an adjustment to EBITDA, we have excluded expenses incurred in connection with a one-time, non-recurring severance charges related to work force reduction. (e) As an adjustment to EBITDA, we have excluded expense incurred in connection with a one-time project related to remediating previously identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting from the prior year. (f) As an adjustment to EBITDA, we have excluded the non-cash impairment charges related to long-lived operating lease right-of-use assets because we believe that these do not represent charges that are related to our core operations. (g) As an adjustment to EBITDA, we have excluded the one-time gain related to the forgiveness of our PPP loan. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources and Uses of Cash Historically, we have financed our operations primarily through cash from operating activities, debt financings, and equity issuances. The Company's primary sources of capital available are cash and cash equivalents on hand of $50.9 million as of June 30, 2023 and the cash that we expect to be provided by operating activities. During the year ended June 30, 2023, the Company entered into a first amendment (the 2022 Amendment) to its Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2022, which, among other things, amended the definition of the Companys EBITDA under the Credit Agreement. On December 1, 2022, the Company borrowed an additional $25 million under the Amended JPMorgan Credit Facility to partially fund the cash consideration of the 32M acquisition. See Note 12 - Debt and other financing arrangements to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. The Company also has estimated and recorded for potential sales tax and related interest and penalty liabilities of $13.6 million in the aggregate as of June 30, 2023. The Company continues to evaluate these liabilities and the amount and timing of any such payments. 39 The Company believes that its current financial resources will be sufficient to fund its current twelve-month operating budget from the date of issuance of these consolidated financial statements. Our primary focus as part of our core operations to increase cash flow from operating activities is to prioritize collection efforts to reduce outstanding accounts receivable, utilize existing inventory to support equipment sales over the next year, focusing on various operational efficiencies to improve overall profitability of the business and continued to grow our business both domestically and internationally. Below are charts that reflect our cash liquidity and outstanding debt for the years ended June 30, 2023, 2022. Cash Flows See Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8 of this Annual Report for details on the changes in cash and cash equivalents classified by operating, investing and financing activities during our respective reporting periods. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $14.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to cash used in operating activities of $8.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2022. We recognized $0.6 million in net income and incurred $20.0 million in non-cash operating charges, partially offset by $6.5 million cash utilized in working capital accounts. 40 The change in working capital balance was primarily driven by a $10.4 million increase in inventory, a $0.5 million increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses, offset by a $5.0 million decrease in accounts receivable. Increase in inventory was a result of the Company anticipating customers' 3G to 4G device upgrade needs and demands for the new ePort Engage devices, as well as strategic planning to mitigate potential supply chain disruptions. Increased accounts payable balance comprised of funds owed to customers was resulted from a larger processing volume in fiscal year 2023. Lastly, the decrease in cash utilized by accounts receivable reflected our collection efforts in fiscal year 2023. For the year ended June 30, 2022, the $8.7 million cash used in operating activities reflects our net loss of $1.7 million, $22.5 million utilized by changes in working capital accounts offset by $15.5 million in non-cash operating charges. Net cash used in investing activities Net cash used in investing activities was $51.9 million for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to $12.2 million in the prior year. We paid $35.7 million in cash for the 32M acquisition and invested $16.2 million in capital expenditures as the Company continued to focus on investing in innovative technologies and products, and increasing rental devices enrolled in the Company's Cantaloupe One program. In fiscal year 2022, we invested $9.3 million in property and equipment, and paid $3.0 million for the Yoke acquisition. Net cash provided by financing activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $20.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2023. We borrowed an additional $25.0 million to fund a portion of the cash consideration of the 32M acquisition. We used $2.2 million cash to repurchase our Series A Convertible Stock and made a $1.0 million payment for contingent consideration relating to the Yoke acquisition. In fiscal year 2022, net cash provided by financing activities was $0.9 million which was primarily contributed by $0.9 million proceeds from exercised stock options. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS As of June 30, 2023, the Company had certain contractual obligations due over a period of time as summarized in the following table: Payments Due by Fiscal Year ($ in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Debt and financing obligations (a) $ 49,668 $ 1,044 $ 48,624 $ $ Operating lease obligations (b) 4,247 1,502 2,283 462 Total contractual obligations $ 53,915 $ 2,546 $ 50,907 $ 462 $ (a) Our debt and financing obligations include both principal and interest obligations. As of June 30, 2023, an interest rate of 9.0% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the Amended JPMorgan Credit Agreement. See Note 12 - Debt and Other Financing Arrangements to the consolidated financial statements for further information. (b) Operating lease obligations represent our undiscounted operating lease liabilities as of June 30, 2023. See Note 3 - Leases to the consolidated financial statements for further information.