Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other parts of the Form 10-Q specifically refers to the 2021 JPMorgan Credit Facility prior to March 17, 2022 and to the Amended JPMorgan Credit Facility subsequent to and as of March 17, 2022. 11. ACCRUED EXPENSES Accrued expenses consisted of the following as of September 30, 2022 and June 30, 2022: 17 Table of Contents As of September 30, As of June 30, ($ in thousands) 2022 2022 Sales tax reserve $ 14,889 $ 14,694 Accrued compensation and related sales commissions 1,451 3,289 Operating lease liabilities, current 1,505 1,538 Accrued professional fees 5,781 4,200 Accrued taxes and filing fees payable 2,625 2,036 Contingent consideration arrangement for the Yoke acquisition* 1,000 Other accrued expenses 1,125 1,397 Total accrued expenses $ 27,376 $ 28,154 * See Note 5 - Acquisition for description of the contingent consideration arrangement. 12. INCOME TAXES For the three months ended September 30, 2022, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $ 26 thousand. As of September 30, 2022, the Company reviewed the existing deferred tax assets and continues to record a full valuation against its deferred tax assets. The income tax provisions primarily relate to the Company's uncertain tax positions, as well as state income and franchise taxes. As of September 30, 2022, the Company had a total unrecognized income tax benefit of $ 0.6 million. The provision is based upon actual loss before income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2022, as the use of an estimated annual effective income tax rate does not provide a reliable estimate of the income tax provision. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, the Company recorded an income tax provision of $ 89 thousand. As of September 30, 2021, the Company reviewed the existing deferred tax assets and continues to record a full valuation against its deferred tax assets. The income tax provisions primarily relate to the Company's uncertain tax positions, as well as state income and franchise taxes. As of September 30, 2021, the Company had a total unrecognized income tax benefit of $ 0.5 million. The provision is based upon actual loss before income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2021, as the use of an estimated annual effective income tax rate does not provide a reliable estimate of the income tax provision. 18 Table of Contents 13. EQUITY STOCK OPTIONS The Company estimates the grant date fair value of the stock options with service conditions (i.e., a condition that requires an employee to render services to the Company for a stated period of time to vest) it grants using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The Companys assumption for expected volatility is based on its historical volatility data related to market trading of its own common stock. The Company uses the simplified method to determine expected term, as the Company does not have adequate historical exercise and forfeiture behavior on which to base the expected life assumption. The dividend yield assumption is based on dividends expected to be paid over the expected life of the stock option. The risk-free interest rate assumption is determined by using the U.S. Treasury rates of the same period as the expected option term of each stock option. No stock options were granted during the three months ended September 30, 2021. The fair value of options granted during the three months ended September 30, 2022 were determined using the following assumptions and includes only options with an established grant date under ASC 718: Three months ended September 30, 2022 Expected volatility (percent) 74.6 % - 75.1 % Weighted average expected life (years) 4.5 Dividend yield (percent) 0.0 % Risk-free interest rate (percent) 2.7 % - 3.2 % Number of options granted 600,000 Weighted average exercise price $ 6.51 Weighted average grant date fair value $ 3.91 Stock based compensation related to stock options with an established grant date for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 was $ 1.0 million and $ 0.8 million, respectively. Performance based awards The Company has awarded stock options to certain executives which vest each year over a three to four year period. These stock options are subject to the achievement of performance goals to be established by the Company's Board for each fiscal year. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has established the performance metrics as a price target for the trading price of the Companys common stock in each applicable fiscal year. The price target is achieved if the average closing price of the common stock during any consecutive 30 -trading-day period during the applicable fiscal year meets or exceeds: (i) $ 10.50 in the case of fiscal year 2021; (ii) $ 13.50 in the case of fiscal year 2022; (iii) $ 16.50 in the case of fiscal year 2023; and (iv) $ 19.50 in the case of fiscal year 2024. If at least 80 % of the performance goals for an applicable fiscal year are achieved, the Compensation Committee may determine that the portion of the option eligible to vest based on such fiscal years performance will vest on a prorated basis. In so determining, the Compensation Committee will consider the Companys performance relative to its market competitors and any other considerations deemed relevant by the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committees guideline is generally that for every percentage point the achieved price falls below the price target, the percentage of the performance options eligible to vest in respect of the applicable fiscal year should be reduced by 2 %, but the Compensation Committee may vary this formula in its sole discretion. For these performance based awards that provide discretion to the Compensation Committee, a mutual understanding of the key terms and conditions between the Company and the employees have not yet been met and a "Grant Date" as defined in ASC Topic 718 Compensation Stock Compensation , has not been established. When the service period begins prior to the grant date, the Company begins recognizing compensation cost before there is a grant date. The Company estimates the award's fair value at each reporting period for these equity classified awards, until the grant date, utilizing a Monte Carlo simulation valuation model. The total expense recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and September 30, 2021 for these awards was $( 0.2 ) million and $ 0.6 million, respectively. 19 Table of Contents COMMON STOCK AWARDS Two employees of Hudson Executive, a greater than 10% shareholder and a related party of the Company, entered into consulting agreements with the Company in August and September of 2020, respectively, under which the consultants provided financial and strategic analysis and advisory services to the Company's CEO through July 31, 2021. As consideration for the services, in March 2021 the consultants were granted a total of 80,000 restricted stock units. In September 2021, the Company extended these consulting agreements through July 31, 2022 and, in connection therewith, the consultants were granted an additional 20,000 restricted stock units. On February 2, 2022, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed one of the above mentioned employees of Hudson Executive as a director of the Company, effective immediately. In connection with the appointment to the Board, the consulting agreement for that individual was terminated, effective February 2, 2022. The total expense recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and September 30, 2021 for these consulting agreements was immaterial. The total expense recognized for common stock awards (excluding the consulting agreement described separately above) for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 was $ 0.5 million and $ 0.4 million, respectively. PREFERRED STOCK During the three months ended September 30, 2022, the Company retired 59,281 shares of its Series A convertible preferred stock that it purchased for an aggregate amount of approximately $ 2.45 million. The repurchase transaction was primarily accounted for as an extinguishment of preferred stock and recorded as a decrease to the carrying value of the preferred stock in the amount of $ 0.42 million and common stock of $ 1.73 million for an aggregate amount of $ 2.15 million that was included within the Cash flows from financing activities in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The remaining $ 0.3 million was deemed to be an amount in excess of the fair value of the preferred stock and was recorded within Operating expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Cash flows from operating activities in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES LITIGATION We are a party to litigation and other proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. These types of matters could result in fines, penalties, compensatory or treble damages or non-monetary sanctions or relief. In accordance with the accounting guidance for contingencies, we reserve for litigation claims and assessments asserted or threatened against us when a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. We cannot predict the outcome of legal or other proceedings with certainty. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Inquiries Since fiscal year 2019, the Company has received inquiries from the SEC into the facts and circumstances of the 2019 Investigation and has fully cooperated with these inquiries. Leases The Company has entered into various operating lease obligations. See Note 3 - Leases for additional information. Purchase Commitments As of September 30, 2022, the Company had firm commitments to purchase inventory of approximately $ 16 million over the next two years . 15. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 20 Table of Contents A member of our Board of Directors serves as a strategic advisor to a consulting firm that we utilize for payments analytics and advisory services. These services are utilized by the Company to reduce the cost of our interchange and other processing fees charged by payment processors and credit card networks. As consideration for the services, we pay the consulting firm a success fee based on the savings realized by the Company and a recurring monthly subscription fee for the analytics services. The total expense recognized within Cost of subscription and transaction fees for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 for these arrangements was $ 0.1 million and $ 0.3 million, respectively. See Note 13 - Equity for information on transactions relating to Hudson Executive. 21 Table of Contents Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-Q. Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, regarding, among other things, the anticipated financial and operating results of Cantaloupe, Inc. (Cantaloupe or the Company). For this purpose, forward-looking statements are any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact and include, but are not limited to, those preceded by or that include the words, estimate, could, should, would, likely, may, will, plan, intend, believes, expects, anticipates, projected, or similar expressions. Those statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. The forward-looking information is based on various factors and was derived using numerous assumptions. Important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected include, for example: general economic, market or business conditions unrelated to our operating performance, including the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; potential mutations of COVID-19 and the efficacy of vaccines and treatment developments and their deployment; failure to comply with the financial covenants in the Amended JPMorgan Credit Facility (as defined below); our ability to raise funds in the future through sales of securities or debt financing in order to sustain operations in the normal course of business or if an unexpected or unusual event were to occur; our ability to compete with our competitors and increase market share; disruptions in or inefficiencies to our supply chain and/or operations including the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic; the risks related to the availability of, and cost inflation in, supply chain inputs, including labor, raw materials, packaging and transportation; whether our current or future customers purchase, lease, rent or utilize ePort devices, Seeds software solutions or our other products in the future at levels currently anticipated; whether our customers continue to utilize the Companys transaction processing and related services, as our customer agreements are generally cancellable by the customer on thirty to sixty days notice; our ability to satisfy our trade obligations included in accounts payable and accrued expenses; the incurrence by us of any unanticipated or unusual non-operating expenses, which may require us to divert our cash resources from achieving our business plan; our ability to predict or estimate our future quarterly or annual revenue and expenses given the developing and unpredictable market for our products; our ability to integrate acquired companies into our current products and services structure; our ability to retain key customers from whom a significant portion of our revenue is derived; the ability of a key customer to reduce or delay purchasing products from us; our ability to obtain widespread commercial acceptance of our products and service offerings; whether any patents issued to us will provide any competitive advantages or adequate protection for our products, or would be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others; our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others; the ability of our products and services to avoid disruptions to our systems or unauthorized hacking or credit card fraud; geopolitical conflicts, such as the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine; whether we are able to fully remediate our material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or continue to experience material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting in the future, and are not able to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations; 22 Table of Contents the ability to remain in compliance with the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Select Market (Nasdaq) and continue to remain as a member of the US Small-Cap Russell 2000; whether our suppliers would increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of sale; and the risks associated with the currently pending investigation, potential litigation or possible regulatory action arising from the 2019 Investigation (as defined below) and its findings, from the failure to timely file our periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, from the restatement of the affected financial statements, from allegations related to the registration statement for the follow-on public offering, or from potential litigation or other claims arising from these events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Actual results or business conditions may differ materially from those projected or suggested in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, those described above, or those discussed under Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 (2022 Form 10-K). We cannot assure you that we have identified all the factors that create uncertainties. Moreover, new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all risks on our business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause actual results to differ from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Form 10-Q speaks only as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statement to reflect circumstances or events after the date of this Form 10-Q or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. OVERVIEW OF THE COMPANY Cantaloupe, Inc., is organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. We are a digital payments and software services company that provides end-to-end technology solutions for the unattended retail market. We are transforming the unattended retail world by offering a single platform for self-service commerce which includes integrated payments processing and software solutions that handle inventory management, pre-kitting, route logistics, warehouse and back-office management. Our enterprise-wide platform is designed to increase consumer engagement and sales revenue through digital payments, digital advertising and customer loyalty programs, while providing retailers with control and visibility over their operations and inventory. As a result, customers ranging from vending machine companies to operators of micro-markets, car wash, electric vehicle charging stations, commercial laundry, kiosks, amusements and more, can run their businesses more proactively, predictably, and competitively. The Company's fiscal year ends June 30. The Company generates revenues in multiple ways. During the three months ended September 30, 2022, we derived approximately 81% and 19% from subscription and transaction fees and equipment sales, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2021, we derived approximately 89% and 11% from subscription and transaction fees and equipment sales, respectively. Active Devices (as defined below) operating on the Companys platform and using our services include those resulting from the sale or lease of our point of sale ("POS") electronic payment devices, telemetry devices or certified payment software or the servicing of similar third-party installed POS terminals or telemetry devices. Customers can obtain POS electronic payment devices from us in the following ways: Purchasing devices directly from the Company or one of its authorized resellers; Financing devices under the Companys QuickStart Program, which are non-cancellable sixty-month sales-type leases, through an unrelated equipment financing company, if available, or directly from the Company; and Renting devices under the Companys JumpStart Program, which are typically 36 months duration agreements and are cancellable with 30 to 60 days' written notice. 3G Network discontinuation and upgrade cycle The Company currently has a large customer base with over 1 million Active Devices connected to our platform which we have built over 30 years of being a key player in the unattended retail industry. The major telecommunication service providers in North America have been phasing out older generation cellular networks (2G and 3G networks) over the past year due to capacity and bandwidth limitations to make room for newer technologies that are faster, more reliable, provides a wider range of coverage, and overall enables a more responsive device. 23 Table of Contents A significant portion of our customer base and Active Devices were impacted by the discontinuation of the 3G wireless networks as these devices would be unable to operate after December 31, 2022. Our transition away from the 3G wireless network is nearing completion as the major cellular service providers phase these networks out in North America by December 31, 2022. The upgrade in cellular networks has impacted our industry and has required the Company to offer discounts to strategic customers especially during fiscal year 2023 to ensure that our existing customer base is properly transitioned to the new platform. These discounts, which we expect to continue through the end of the calendar year, contributed to the decrease in our equipment sales margin in the current quarter. Key Developments during the Quarter Key developments of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2022 are below: 25,019 Active Customers (as defined below) and 1.15 million Active Devices on our service; Revenues of $57.8 million, an increase of 26% year over year. The increase was led by a sixth consecutive quarter of record transaction fees revenue; We finalized the migration of payment processors to Fiserv which we expect to deliver future cost savings; In July 2022, we migrated our cloud hosting services to Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform. Outside of software development costs, we incurred one-time costs of approximately $1 million during the fiscal quarter across transaction processing fees, professional services fees and other costs to implement and stabilize our platform. Completion of this migration supports our continued focus on ensuring we have a reliable, resilient and scalable infrastructure to support our growing network of devices and customers; We had approximately of $1.8 million of increased costs of equipment sales associated with inflation experienced within our supply chain and unfavorable prices paid to secure certain key component parts to meet production and delivery timelines caused by a greater than anticipated surge in the demand for our ePort hardware products. The increased demand related to our customers upgrading their payment devices in anticipation of the 3G network discontinuation events described above; and We continue to see significant customer interest and growth in the newly launched Cantaloupe ONE Platform, a bundled subscription model, which provides operators the flexibility and predictability of a monthly, fixed subscription amount covering the hardware and service fees. As of September 30, 2022, we have approximately 225 employees across the United States and offices in Malvern, Pennsylvania and Atlanta, Georgia. COVID-19 Update The Company, its employees, and its customers operate in geographic locations in which its business operations and financial performance continues to be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. While businesses, schools and other organizations re-open, which has led to increased foot-traffic to distributed assets containing our electronic payment solutions, the emergence of new strains and variants and resurgence of the virus, such as the outbreak of the Omicron variant in early calendar year 2022, have led and may in the future lead to additional shutdowns, closures, and other follow-on impacts including supply chain disruptions, which may impact our operations and financial results. During fiscal year 2023, we experienced elevated component and supply chain costs necessary for the production and distribution of our hardware products. Such impacts to our financial statements include, but are not limited to, increased costs of sales incurred, impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, impairment of long-lived assets including operating lease assets, property and equipment and allowance for doubtful accounts for accounts and finance receivables. We have concluded that there are no material impairments as a result of our evaluation for the quarter ended September 30, 2022. Where applicable, we have incorporated judgments and estimates of the expected impact of COVID-19 in the preparation of the financial statements based on information currently available. These judgments and estimates may change, as new events develop and additional information is obtained, and are recognized in the condensed consolidated financial statements as soon as they become known. We continue to monitor the evolving situation and follow guidance from federal, state and local public health authorities. Given the potential uncertainty of the situation, the Company cannot, at this time, reasonably estimate the longer-term repercussions of COVID-19 on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 24 Table of Contents QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-Q. The following table shows certain financial and non-financial data that management believes give readers insight into certain trends and relationships about the Companys financial performance. We believe the metrics (Active Devices, Active Customers, Total Number of Transactions and Total Dollar Volume) are useful in allowing management and readers to evaluate our strategy of driving growth in devices and transactions. Active Devices Active Devices are devices that have communicated with us or have had a transaction in the last twelve months. Included in the number of Active Devices are devices that communicate through other devices that communicate or transact with us. A self-service retail location that utilizes an ePort cashless payment device as well as Seed management services constitutes only one device. Active Customers The Company defines Active Customers as all customers with at least one active device. Total Number of Transactions and Total Dollar Volume of Transactions Transactions are defined as electronic payment transactions that are processed by our technology-enabled solutions. Management uses Total Number and Dollar Volume of transactions to monitor recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and to evaluate the effectiveness of our new customer strategy and our ability to leverage existing customers and partners. As of and for the three months ended September 30, 2022 June 30, 2022 March 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 September 30, 2021 Devices: Active Devices (thousands) 1,151 1,137 1,125 1,123 1,115 Customers: Active Customers 25,019 23,991 22,818 21,315 20,738 Volumes: Total Number of Transactions (millions) 276.3 274.6 258.6 261.7 257.9 Total Dollar Volume of Transactions (millions) 639.5 616.1 562.0 555.3 553.4 Highlights for the quarter ended September 30, 2022 include: 1.15 million Active Devices compared to the same quarter last year of 1.11 million, an increase of approximately 36 thousand Active Devices, or 3%; 25,019 Active Customers on our service compared to the same quarter last year of 20,738, an increase of 4,281 Active Customers, or 21%; and $639.5 million in Total Dollar Volume of Transactions for the quarter ended September 30, 2022 compared to $553.4 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2021, an increase of $86.1 million, or 16%. See "Revenues and Gross Profit" in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below for additional information. 25 Table of Contents FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The following tables summarize our results of operations and significant changes in our financial performance for the periods presented: 26 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2021 Revenues and Gross Profit Three months ended September 30, Percent Change ($ in thousands) 2022 2021 Revenues: Subscription and transaction fees $ 47,075 $ 40,625 15.9 % Equipment sales 10,707 5,155 107.7 % Total revenues 57,782 45,780 26.2 % Costs of sales: Cost of subscription and transaction fees 30,370 26,024 16.7 % Cost of equipment sales 13,250 4,880 171.5 % Total costs of sales 43,620 30,904 41.1 % Gross profit: Subscription and transaction fees 16,705 14,601 14.4 % Equipment sales (2,543) 275 (1,024.7) % Total gross profit $ 14,162 $ 14,876 (4.8) % Gross margin: Subscription and transaction fees 35.5 % 35.9 % Equipment sales (23.8) % 5.3 % Total gross margin 24.5 % 32.5 % Revenues. Total revenues increased by $12.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. The increase in revenues is attributed to a $6.5 million and $5.6 million increase in subscription and transaction fees and equipment sales, respectively. The increase in subscription and transaction fees is primarily driven by increased processing volumes, with an approximately 16% increase in total dollar volumes for the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. We continue to benefit as businesses, schools and other organizations across the country continue to maintain normal levels of operations. Our subscription fees have increased 11% for the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 which is attributed to a continued focus of management to grow our recurring subscription services to our customer base. Lastly we have experienced a 3% increase in the Active Devices count compared to the same period last year which has also contributed to an increase in subscription and transaction fees. The increase in equipment sales relates to more equipment shipments in the current period compared to the same period in the last year driven by continued upgrades by our customers from 3G to 4G network compatible devices and customers upgrading their hardware devices to the latest payment technology security standards. We expect equipment sales to continue to be a significant contributor to our total revenues through the 3G network discontinuation date in North America through the end of the 2022 calendar year. Cost of sales . Cost of sales increased $12.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. The increase in cost of sales is attributed to a $4.3 million and $8.4 million increase in subscription and transaction costs and equipment costs respectively. The increase in subscription and transaction costs was primarily driven by an increase in transaction processing fees corresponding with an increase in processing volumes and an one-time costs of approximately $0.8 million incurred during the current fiscal quarter due to additional transaction processing fees that were related to implementing and stabilizing our platform as part of the AWS migration. The increase in cost of sales for equipment was primarily driven by $1.8 million of increased cost experienced within our supply chain due to inflation and unfavorable prices paid to secure certain key component parts to meet production and delivery timelines caused by a greater than anticipated surge in the demand for our ePort hardware products. The increased demand related to our customers upgrading their payment devices in anticipation of the 3G network discontinuation events described 27 Table of Contents above (See 3G Network discontinuation and upgrade cycle section). We have taken steps to mitigate the impact of the materials shortages on our business, including increasing the amount of inventory we have on hand and negotiating fixed pricing with suppliers. We do however anticipate higher pricing levels on certain component parts as we conclude the 3G upgrade cycle through the end of the calendar year. Gross margin. Total gross margin decreased from 32.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2021 to 24.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2022. The decrease in gross margin was primarily a result of lower equipment sales margins due to increased supply chain costs compared to same period in the prior year. Subscription and transaction fees gross margin was relatively consistent for the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. However, we incurred one-time processing costs of approximately $0.8 million during the current fiscal quarter as a result of additional transaction processing fees to implement and stabilize our platform as part of the AWS migration. The increase in transaction fees costs were offset with lower costs for our payment processor and payment networks which were a result of migrating payment processors and negotiating favorable rates with the card network providers. Additionally, we have seen an increase in average price per transaction relative to the same period in the prior year, which is additive to our gross margin. Operating Expenses Three months ended September 30, Percent Change Category ($ in thousands) 2022 2021 Sales and marketing $ 2,525 $ 2,339 8.0 % Technology and product development 6,865 5,389 27.4 % General and administrative expenses 11,578 7,264 59.4 % Investigation, proxy solicitation and restatement expenses 397 100.0 % Depreciation and amortization 1,315 1,022 28.7 % Total operating expenses $ 22,680 $ 16,014 41.6 % Total operating expenses. Operating expenses increased by $6.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. This change is attributed to an increase of $4.3 million in general and administrative expenses, a $1.5 million increase in technology and product development expenses and a $0.4 million increase in investigation, proxy solicitation and restatement expenses. See further details on individual categories below. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased approximately $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021 and relates primarily to higher sales and marketing employee headcount in the current quarter to support our expanding business and service offerings in the United States and internationally. Technology and product development. Technology and product development expenses increased approximately $1.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021. We have continued to execute on our key objectives of investing in innovative technologies to further strengthen our network environment and platform. The primary increase in technology and product development expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2022 related to increase in professional services relating to the AWS migration, developing a payment gateway for international expansion initiatives and implementing tools to monitor our network and infrastructure. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased approximately $4.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily driven by a $0.9 million increase in bad debt expense due to higher receivable balances and an increase in the aging profile of receivable balances, $0.3 million impairment of rental equipment as part of a contract extension with a large customer of the Company, $1.1 million increase in professional services fees relating to financial and legal services to expand and strengthen our market position and additional compliance costs incurred as a result of our delayed annual report filing, and a one-time insurance recovery of $0.7 million in the prior year quarter which was recorded as a reduction of general and administrative expenses. Investigation, proxy solicitation, and restatement expenses . The Company did not incur any material investigation, proxy solicitation and restatement expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2021. For the three months ended September 30, 2022, the Company and former officers incurred additional legal charges primarily relating to responding to inquiries from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in regards to the 2019 Investigation as disclosed in the section 28 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense was predominantly consistent for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and September 30, 2021. Other Income (Expense), Net Three months ended September 30, Percent Change ($ in thousands) 2022 2021 Other income (expense): Interest income $ 567 $ 473 19.9 % Interest expense (477) (478) (0.2) % Other income (expense) (120) (59) (103) % Total other expense, net $ (30) $ (64) (53.1) % Other expense, net . Other income (expense) was predominantly consistent as a whole for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and September 30, 2021. Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted earnings before income taxes, depreciation, and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial measure which is not required by or defined under GAAP. We use this non-GAAP financial measure for financial and operational decision-making purposes and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information about our operating results, enhances the overall understanding of past financial performance and future prospects and allows for greater transparency with respect to metrics used by our management in its financial and operational decision making. The presentation of this financial measure is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial measures prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, including our net income or net loss or net cash used in operating activities. Management recognizes that non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the items associated with our net income or net loss as determined in accordance with GAAP, and are not a substitute for or a measure of our profitability or net earnings. Adjusted EBITDA is presented because we believe it is useful to investors as a measure of comparative operating performance. Additionally, we utilize Adjusted EBITDA as a metric in our executive officer and management incentive compensation plans. We define Adjusted EBITDA as U.S. GAAP net loss before (i) interest income (ii) interest expense on debt and reserves (iii) income tax expense (iv) depreciation (v) amortization (vi) stock-based compensation expense (vii) fees and charges that were incurred in connection with the 2019 Investigation and financial statement restatement activities as well as proxy solicitation costs that are not indicative of our core operations and (viii) certain other significant infrequent or unusual losses and gains that are not indicative of our core operations. Below is a reconciliation of U.S. GAAP net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and September 30, 2021: 29 Table of Contents Three months ended September 30, ($ in thousands) 2022 2021 U.S. GAAP net loss $ (8,574) $ (1,291) Less: interest income (567) (473) Plus: interest expense 477 478 Plus: income tax provision 26 89 Plus: depreciation expense included in costs of sales for rentals 242 264 Plus: depreciation and amortization expense in operating expenses 1,315 1,022 EBITDA (7,081) 89 Plus: stock-based compensation (a) 1,318 1,762 Plus: investigation, proxy solicitation and restatement expenses (b) 397 Adjustments to EBITDA 1,715 1,762 Adjusted EBITDA $ (5,366) $ 1,851 (a) As an adjustment to EBITDA, we have excluded stock-based compensation, as it does not reflect our cash-based operations. (b) As an adjustment to EBITDA, we have excluded the fees incurred in connection with the costs and expenses related to the 2019 Investigation, financial statement restatement activities, and proxy solicitation costs because we believe that they represent charges that are not related to our core operations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources and Uses of Cash Historically, we have financed our operations primarily through cash from operating activities, debt financings, and equity issuances. The Company has the following primary sources of capital available: (1) cash and cash equivalents on hand of $50.8 million as of September 30, 2022; (2) the cash that may be provided by operating activities; (3) up to $15 million available to be drawn on the Amended Revolving Facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.; and (4) up to an additional $10 million available through March 2023 to be drawn on the Amended Secured Term Facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. The Company also has estimated and recorded for potential sales tax and related interest and penalty liabilities of $14.9 million in the aggregate as of September 30, 2022. The Company continues to evaluate these liabilities and the amount and timing of any such payments. The Company believes that its current financial resources will be sufficient to fund its current twelve-month operating budget from the date of issuance of these condensed consolidated financial statements. Below are charts that reflect our cash liquidity and outstanding debt as of September 30, 2022 and June 30, 2022: 30 Table of Contents Cash Flows See Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for details on the changes in cash and cash equivalents classified by operating, investing and financing activities during our respective reporting periods. Net cash used in operating activities Cash used in operating activities was $9.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to cash used in operating activitie s of $0.9 million i n the same period in the prior year. The net cash used in operating activities reflects our net loss of $8.6 million adjusted by $5.2 million in non-cash operating charges and $5.7 million utilized by working capital accounts. Cash utilized by working capital accounts of approximately $5.7 million was principally a function of an increase of accounts receivable of $4.7 million, $3.9 million to increase our inventory on hand, offset by an increase of accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $3.6 million. Increase in inventory is driven by increased equipment sales as well as strategic planning to mitigate potential supply chain disruptions. The Company has increased inventory on hand in order to fulfill orders as they are placed and as we anticipate orders for customers who are continuing to upgrade 3G devices to 4G as the 3G network sunset date approaches near the end of calendar year 2022. Increase in cash utilized by accounts receivable was a result of increased sales and processing volumes during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022 and the first quarter for fiscal year 2023. Non-cash operating charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation, depreciation of property and equipment, amortization of our intangible assets, and provisions for expected losses. Net cash used in investing activities Cash used in investing activities was $5.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to cash used in investing activities of $4.5 million in the same period in the prior year. Increase in cash used is due to a $3.3 million increase in property and equipment balances driven primarily by the Company's continued focus on investing in innovative technologies and products and an increase in rental devices enrolled in the Company's Cantaloupe One program. This is offset by cash paid for the Yoke acquisition of $2.9 million during the three months ended September 30, 2021. Net cash used in financing activities Cash used in financing activities was $3.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to cash used in financing activities of $0.2 million in the same period in the prior year. For the three months ended September 30, 2022, the Company repurchased Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and paid out contingent consideration relating to its acquisition of Yoke Payments. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS During the three months ended September 30, 2022, there were no significant changes to our contractual obligations from those disclosed in the section Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022. 31 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES During the three months ended September 30, 2022, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies from those disclosed in the section Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the condensed consolidated financial statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements.