Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-Q. Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, regarding, among other things, the anticipated financial and operating results of Cantaloupe, Inc. (Cantaloupe or the Company). For this purpose, forward-looking statements are any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact and include, but are not limited to, those preceded by or that include the words, estimate, could, should, would, likely, may, will, plan, intend, believes, expects, anticipates, projected, or similar expressions. Those statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. The forward-looking information is based on various factors and was derived using numerous assumptions. Important factors that could cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those projected include, for example: general economic, market or business conditions unrelated to our operating performance, including the impact of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic on the Company's operations, financial condition, and the demand for the Companys products and services; potential mutations of COVID-19 and the efficacy of vaccines and treatment developments and their deployment; failure to comply with the financial covenants of our credit agreement in connection with the 2021 JPMorgan Credit Facility; the ability of the Company to raise funds in the future through sales of securities or debt financing in order to sustain its operations in the normal course of business or if an unexpected or unusual event would occur; the ability of the Company to compete with its competitors to obtain market share; whether the Companys current or future customers purchase, lease, rent or utilize ePort devices, Seeds software solutions or our other products in the future at levels currently anticipated by our Company; whether the Companys customers continue to utilize the Companys transaction processing and related services, as our customer agreements are generally cancellable by the customer on thirty to sixty days notice; the ability of the Company to satisfy its trade obligations included in accounts payable and accrued expenses; the incurrence by us of any unanticipated or unusual non-operating expenses which would require us to divert our cash resources from achieving our business plan; the ability of the Company to predict or estimate its future quarterly or annual revenue and expenses given the developing and unpredictable market for its products; the ability of the Company to integrate acquired companies into its current products and services structure; the ability of the Company to retain key customers from whom a significant portion of its revenue is derived; the ability of a key customer to reduce or delay purchasing products from the Company; the ability of the Company to obtain widespread commercial acceptance of its products and service offerings whether any patents issued to the Company will provide the Company with any competitive advantages or adequate protection for its products, or would be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others; the ability of the Company to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others; the ability of our products and services to avoid disruptions to our systems or unauthorized hacking or credit card fraud; whether we will experience material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting in the future, and are not able to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations; the ability of the Company to remain in compliance with the continued listing standards of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (Nasdaq) and continue to remain as a member of the US Small-Cap Russell 2000; whether our suppliers would increase their prices, reduce their output or change their terms of sale; and 22 Table of Contents the risks associated with the currently pending investigation, potential litigation or possible regulatory action arising from the internal investigation conducted by the Audit Committee in fiscal year 2019 and its findings, from the failure to timely file our periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, from the restatement of the affected financial statements, from allegations related to the registration statement for the follow-on public offering, or from potential litigation or other claims arising from these events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Actual results or business conditions may differ materially from those projected or suggested in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, those described above, or those discussed under Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 (2021 Form 10-K). We cannot assure you that we have identified all the factors that create uncertainties. Moreover, new risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all risks on our business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause actual results to differ from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Form 10-Q speaks only as of the date of this Form 10-Q. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statement to reflect circumstances or events after the date of this Form 10-Q or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. OVERVIEW OF THE COMPANY Cantaloupe, Inc. (Cantaloupe or the Company), previously known as USA Technologies, Inc., is organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. On March 29, 2021, USA Technologies, Inc. filed Articles of Amendment to its Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation with the Pennsylvania Department of State to effect a change of the Companys name from USA Technologies, Inc. to Cantaloupe, Inc., effective as of April 15, 2021. On April 19, 2021, the Companys common stock, no par value per share (the Common Stock), began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol CTLP and the Companys Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, no par value per share, began trading on the OTC Markets Pink Open Market under the trading symbol, CTLPP. Cantaloupe is a digital payments and software services company that provides end-to-end technology solutions for the unattended retail market. We are transforming the unattended retail world by offering a solution for payments processing, as well as one that handles inventory management, pre-kitting, route logistics, warehouse and back-office management. Our enterprise-wide platform is designed to increase consumer engagement and sales revenue through digital payments, digital advertising and customer loyalty programs, while providing retailers with control and visibility over their operations and inventory. As a result, customers ranging from vending machine companies to operators of micro-markets, car wash and electric vehicle charging stations, commercial laundry, kiosks, amusements and more, can run their businesses more proactively, predictably, and competitively. The Company's fiscal year ends June 30. The Company generates revenue in multiple ways. During the three months ended September 30, 2021, we derived approximately 89% and 11% from subscription and transaction fees and equipment sales, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2020, we derived approximately 90% and 10% from subscription and transaction fees and equipment sales, respectively. Active Devices (as defined below) operating on the Companys platform and using our services include those resulting from the sale or lease of our point of sale ("POS") electronic payment devices, telemetry devices or certified payment software or the servicing of similar third-party installed POS terminals or telemetry devices. Customers can obtain POS electronic payment devices from us in the following ways: Purchasing devices directly from the Company or one of its authorized resellers; Financing devices under the Companys QuickStart Program, which are non-cancellable sixty-month sales-type leases, through an unrelated equipment financing company, if available, or directly from the Company; and Renting devices under the Companys JumpStart Program, which are typically 36 months duration agreements and are cancellable with 30 to 60 days' written notice. 23 Table of Contents First Quarter 2022 Highlights Highlights of the Company for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2021 are below: 20,738 Active Customers (as defined below) and 1.1 million Active Devices on our service; In August 2021, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of Delicious Nutritious LLC, doing business as Yoke Payments ("Yoke"), a micro market payments company. Through the acquisition, Yoke's POS platform will now extend its offering to provide self-checkout while seamlessly integrating with Cantaloupes inventory management and payment processing platforms; In August 2021, the Company hosted its inaugural Cantaloupe Innovation Summit at the National Automatic Merchandising Association ("NAMA") Show 2021, showcasing new products and services; Completed testing and certification of the ePort Engage devices which began shipping at the end of current fiscal quarter. ePort Engage series is our next generation of digital touchscreen devices for the market which provides retailers the ability to captivate consumers in new ways and enables truly frictionless purchasing; Three direct sales teams at the national, regional, and local customer-level and a growing number of original equipment manufacturers and national distribution partners; and Continued promotional upgrade program for 2G and 3G devices to 4G LTE. As of September 30, 2021, we have approximately 185 employees across the United States and offices in Malvern, Pennsylvania and Atlanta, Georgia. COVID-19 Update The Company, its employees, and its customers operate in geographic locations in which its business operations and financial performance continues to be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. However, as businesses, schools, and other organizations re-open and continue through economic recovery, the Company has seen increased foot traffic to distributed assets containing our electronic payments solutions. The Company continues to monitor for potential impacts of COVID-19 as new variants emerge and could lead to a resurgence of the virus. Such impacts to our financial statements include, but not limited to, the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, impairment of long-lived assets including operating lease right-of-use assets, property and equipment and allowance for doubtful accounts for accounts and finance receivables. We have concluded that there are no material impairments as a result of our evaluation. Where applicable, we have incorporated judgments and estimates of the expected impact of COVID-19 in the preparation of the financial statements based on information currently available. These judgments and estimates may change, as new events develop and additional information is obtained, and are recognized in the condensed consolidated financial statements as soon as they become known. While we are encouraged by the recent gradual lifting of pandemic-related closures and other containment measures across the country, we continue to monitor the evolving situation and follow guidance from federal, state and local public health authorities. Given the potential uncertainty of the situation, the Company cannot, at this time, reasonably estimate the longer-term repercussions of COVID-19 on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 24 Table of Contents QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-Q. Certain prior years' amounts have been made to conform to the current year's presentation. The changes in presentation did not affect our total revenues, total costs of sales, gross profit, total operating expenses, operating loss, net loss or net loss per common share. For further information on the presentation changes, see Item 1. Financial Statements Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies . The following table shows certain financial and non-financial data that management believes give readers insight into certain trends and relationships about the Companys financial performance. We believe the metrics (Active Devices, Active Customers, Total Number of Transactions and Total Dollar Volume) are useful in allowing management and readers to evaluate our strategy of driving growth in devices and transactions. Active Devices Active Devices are devices that have communicated with us or have had a transaction in the last twelve months. Included in the number of Active Devices are devices that communicate through other devices that communicate or transact with us. A self-service retail location that utilizes an ePort cashless payment device as well as Seed management services constitutes only one device. Active Customers The Company defines Active Customers as all customers with at least one active device. Total Number of Transactions and Total Dollar Volume of Transactions Transactions are defined as electronic payment transactions that are processed by our technology-enabled solutions. Management uses Total Number and Dollar Volume of transactions to monitor recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and to evaluate the effectiveness of our new customer strategy and our ability to leverage existing customers and partners. As of and for the three months ended September 30, 2021 June 30, 2021 March 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 September 30, 2020 Devices: Active Devices (thousands) 1,115 1,094 1,085 1,083 1,083 Customers: Active Customers 20,738 19,834 18,763 18,304 17,760 Volumes: Total Number of Transactions (millions) 257.9 241.6 213.4 211.8 201.9 Total Dollar Volume of Transactions (millions) 553.4 515.0 412.7 422.6 406.3 Highlights for the quarter ended September 30, 2021 include: 1.11 million Active Devices compared to the same quarter last year of 1.08 million, an increase of approximately 30 thousand Active Devices, or 3%; 20,738 Active Customers on our service compared to the same quarter last year of 17,760, an increase of 2,978 Active Customers, or 17%; and Total Dollar Volumes for the quarter ended September 30, 2021 are approximately 7% higher than the quarter ended June 30, 2021 and 36% higher compared to the average processing volumes for the quarter ended September 30, 2020. See "Revenue and Gross Profit" in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above for additional information. 25 Table of Contents FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS The following tables summarize our results of operations and significant changes in our financial performance for the periods presented: 26 Table of Contents Three Months Ended September 30, 2021 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Revenues and Gross Profit Three months ended September 30, Percent Change ($ in thousands) 2021 2020 Revenues: Subscription and transaction fees $ 40,625 $ 33,108 22.7 % Equipment sales 5,155 3,769 36.8 % Total revenues 45,780 36,877 24.1 % Costs of sales: Cost of subscription and transaction fees 26,024 19,336 34.6 % Cost of equipment sales 4,880 3,301 47.8 % Total costs of sales 30,904 22,637 36.5 % Gross profit: Subscription and transaction fees 14,601 13,772 6.0 % Equipment sales 275 468 (41.2) % Total gross profit $ 14,876 $ 14,240 4.5 % Gross margin: Subscription and transaction fees 35.9 % 41.6 % Equipment sales 5.3 % 12.4 % Total gross margin 32.5 % 38.6 % Revenues. Total revenues increased by $8.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. The increase in revenues is attributed to a $7.5 million and $1.4 million increase in subscription and transaction fees and equipment sales, respectively. The increase in subscription and transaction fees is primarily driven by the increased processing volumes for the current fiscal year period relative to the prior year as we are currently exceeding pre-pandemic (COVID-19) levels of processing volumes. As businesses, schools and other organizations across the country continue to re-open, we continue to benefit from a broader macroeconomic recovery across the United States. Increase in revenues is also attributed to continued focus of management to grow our Seed services to our customer base and an increase in the Active Devices count compared to the same period last year. The increase in equipment sales relates to more equipment shipments in the current quarter compared to same period last year driven by customers focused on liquidity during the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic with many committing to 4G device upgrades but holding off on delivery until closer to the discontinuation of 3G network support in 2022. We expect the equipment revenue to continue increasing through the 3G network discontinuation date in North America through the end of the 2022 calendar year. Cost of sales. Cost of sales increased $8.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. The increase in cost of sales is attributed to a $6.7 million and $1.6 million increase in subscription and transaction costs and equipment costs respectively. The increase in cost of sales was primarily driven by an increase in transaction processing fees corresponding with an increase in processing volumes. Gross margin. Total gross margin decreased from 38.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2020 to 32.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2021. The decrease in gross margin was primarily as a result of a change in revenue mix of higher transaction fees during the current quarter and an out of period adjustment of $0.8 million recorded as a reduction of equipment costs in the prior period. 27 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Three months ended September 30, Percent Change Category ($ in thousands) 2021 2020 Sales and marketing $ 2,339 $ 1,599 46.3 % Technology and product development 5,389 3,214 67.7 % General and administrative expenses 7,264 11,997 (39.5) % Depreciation and amortization 1,022 1,068 (4.3) % Total operating expenses $ 16,014 $ 17,878 (10.4) % Total operating expenses. Operating expenses decreased by $1.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. This change is attributed to a decrease of $4.7 million in general and administrative expenses, offset by a $2.2 million increase in technology and product development expenses and a $0.7 million increase in sales and marketing costs. The change in total operating expenses reflects the Company's overall objectives to reduce general and administrative expenses and utilizing savings to invest in innovative technologies and products and increase marketing spend to penetrate new and existing customers with our products and services. See further details on individual categories below. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased approximately $0.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021, as compared to the same period in 2020 and relates primarily to higher sales and marketing employee headcount in the current quarter to support our expanding business and service offerings in the United States and internationally. Technology and product development. Technology and product development expenses increased approximately $2.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021, as compared to the same period in 2020. The increase was driven primarily by the Company's objectives of investing in innovative technologies and to further strengthen our network environment and platform through utilizing a combination of company personnel and external consultants. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased approximately $4.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021, as compared to the same period in 2020. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily driven by a $2.3 million decrease in professional fees due to reduced reliance on external consultants who supported the Companys accounting, financial reporting and reduced legal fees and a $1.8 million change relating to the network incident in the prior year, which is described below. During the three months ended September 30, 2020, the Company experienced a network incident on its transaction processing platform. The Company incurred $1.1 million of non-recurring costs relating to the outage that were included in general and administrative expenses in the prior period and were not included in the current quarter. The Company filed a claim with its insurance provider for the outage related expenses and recovered $0.7 million in the current quarter which was recorded as a reduction of general and administrative expenses for the current quarter. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense was consistent for the three months ended September 30, 2021 and September 30, 2020. Other Income (Expense), Net Three months ended September 30, Percent Change ($ in thousands) 2021 2020 Other income (expense): Interest income $ 473 $ 350 35.1 % Interest expense (478) (3,285) (85.4) % Other income (expense) (59) (100.0) % Total other income (expense), net $ (64) $ (2,935) 97.8 % Other income (expense), net . Other income (expense), net increased $2.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the same period in 2020. The higher interest expense for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2020 was primarily related to the recognition of the remaining balance of unamortized debt issuance costs and debt discount associated 28 Table of Contents with the senior secured term loan facility with Antara Capital Master Fund LP of $2.6 million into interest expense, when the Antara Term Facility was fully paid and terminated. Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted earnings before income taxes, depreciation, and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial measure which is not required by or defined under GAAP. We use this non-GAAP financial measure for financial and operational decision-making purposes and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information about our operating results, enhances the overall understanding of past financial performance and future prospects and allows for greater transparency with respect to metrics used by our management in its financial and operational decision making. The presentation of this financial measure is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial measures prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, including our net income or net loss or net cash used in operating activities. Management recognizes that non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the items associated with our net income or net loss as determined in accordance with GAAP, and are not a substitute for or a measure of our profitability or net earnings. Adjusted EBITDA is presented because we believe it is useful to investors as a measure of comparative operating performance. Additionally, we utilize Adjusted EBITDA as a metric in our executive officer and management incentive compensation plans. We define Adjusted EBITDA as U.S. GAAP net loss before (i) interest income, (ii) interest expense on debt and reserves, (iii) income tax expense, (iv) depreciation, (v) amortization, (vi) stock-based compensation expense, and (vii) certain other significant infrequent or unusual losses and gains that are not indicative of our core operations. Below is a reconciliation of U.S. GAAP net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended September 30, 2021 and September 30, 2020: Three months ended September 30, ($ in thousands) 2021 2020 U.S. GAAP net loss $ (1,291) $ (6,613) Less: interest income (473) (350) Plus: interest expense 478 3,285 Plus: income tax provision 89 40 Plus: depreciation expense included in costs of sales for rentals 264 539 Plus: depreciation and amortization expense in operating expenses 1,022 1,068 EBITDA 89 (2,031) Plus: stock-based compensation (a) 1,762 1,509 Adjustments to EBITDA 1,762 1,509 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,851 $ (522) (a) As an adjustment to EBITDA, we have excluded stock-based compensation, as it does not reflect our cash-based operations. 29 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources and Uses of Cash Historically, we have financed our operations primarily through cash from operating activities, debt financings, and equity issuances. The Company has the following primary sources of capital available: (1) cash and cash equivalents on hand of $82.5 million as of September 30, 2021; (2) the cash that may be provided by operating activities; and (3) up to $5 million available to be drawn on the 2021 JPMorgan Revolving Facility. In addition, management continues to implement efficiencies in working capital that are designed to increase our cash balances. The Company also has estimated and recorded for potential sales tax and related interest and penalty liabilities of $17.4 million in the aggregate as of September 30, 2021. The Company continues to evaluate these liabilities and the amount and timing of any such payments. The Company believes that its current financial resources will be sufficient to fund its current twelve-month operating budget from the date of issuance of these condensed consolidated financial statements. Below are charts that reflect our cash liquidity and outstanding debt as of September 30, 2021 and June 30, 2021: Cash Flows See Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for details on the changes in cash and cash equivalents classified by operating, investing and financing activities during our respective reporting periods. 30 Table of Contents Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities Cash used in operating activities was $0.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to cash provided by operating activities of $5.2 million in the same period in the prior year. The change in cash used in operating activities reflects our net loss of $1.3 million, $2.5 million utilized by working capital accounts offset by $2.9 million in non-cash operating charges. The change in working capital accounts is primarily driven by cash used of $3.9 million to increase our inventory on hand, reduction of accrued expenses of approximately $2.2 million offset by cash provided by a reduction of accounts receivable of $3 million in the quarter. The increase in inventory is a result of the Company planning ahead for customers who are continuing to upgrade 3G devices to 4G as the 3G network sunset date approaches in 2022. Cash used in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $2.2 million is mostly attributable to the payment of the accrued salary and bonuses as of June 30, 2021. Cash used in working capital is offset by the decrease in accounts receivable of $3 million as payments for the increased equipment sales generated during the quarter ended June 30, 2021 become due. Non-cash operating charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation, depreciation of property and equipment, amortization of our intangible assets, and provisions for expected losses. Net cash used in investing activities Cash used in investing activities was $4.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to cash used in investing activities of $0.5 million in the same period in the prior year. Increase in cash used is due to the cash paid for the Yoke acquisition of $2.9 million and $1.6 million for increased property and equipment balances driven primarily by the Company's continued focus on investing in innovative technologies and products. Net cash used in financing activities Cash used in financing activities was $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to cash used in financing activities of $1.7 million in the same period in the prior year. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, the Company made repayments of $0.2 million on outstanding debt mostly attributable to the 2021 JPMorgan Credit Facility. During the three months ended September 30, 2020, the Company refinanced its debt agreements and paid $1.2 million as a prepayment penalty and commitment termination fee to Antara as part of the repayment of the 2020 Antara Term Facility. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS During the three months ended September 30, 2021, there were no significant changes to our contractual obligations from those disclosed in the section Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES During the three months ended September 30, 2021, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies from those disclosed in the section Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the condensed consolidated financial statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements.