ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Dollar Amounts in Thousands, Except Per Share Data, or as Otherwise Noted) Cautionary Statement You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Certain statements in this report, including statements regarding our business strategies, operations, financial condition, and prospects are forward-looking statements. Use of the words anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would, will likely continue, will likely result and similar expressions that contemplate future events may identify forward-looking statements. 32 Table of Contents The information contained in this section is not a complete description of our business or the risks associated with an investment in our common stock. We urge you to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in this report and in our other reports filed with the SEC, which are available on the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. The section entitled Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this report, and similar discussions in our other SEC filings, describe some of the important factors, risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these or any other forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are basedon current expectations and reflect managements opinions only as of the date thereof. We do not assume any obligation to revise or update forward-looking statements. Finally, our historic results should not be viewed as indicative of future performance. Overview We are a leading online provider of aftermarket auto parts, including replacement parts, hard parts, and other parts and accessories. Our proprietary product database maps our SKUs to product applications based on vehicle makes, models and years. We principally sell our products to individual consumers through our flagship website at www.carparts.com, our app,and online marketplaces. Our corporate website is located at www.carparts.com/investor. The inclusion of our website addresses in this report does not include or incorporate by reference into this report any information on our websites. We believe disintermediating the traditional auto parts supply chain and selling products directly to customers online allows us to efficiently deliver products to our customers. Industry-wide trends that support our strategy and future growth include: 1.Number of SKUs required to serve the market. The number of automotive SKUs has grown dramatically over the last several years. In todays market, unless the consumer is driving a high volume produced vehicle and needs a simple maintenance item, the part they need is not typically on the shelf at a brick-and-mortar store. We believe our user-friendly flagship website, and app, provides customers with a favorable alternative to the brick-and-mortar shopping experience by offering a comprehensive selection of approximately 1,544,000 SKUs with detailed product descriptions, attributes and photographs combined with the flexibility of fulfilling orders using both drop-ship and stock-and-ship methods. 2.U.S. vehicle fleet expanding and aging. The average age of U.S. light vehicles, an indicator of auto parts demand, reached a new record-high of 12.6 years in 2024, according to the U.S. Auto Care Association. We believe an increasing vehicle base and rising average age of vehicles will have a positive impact on overall aftermarket parts demand because older vehicles generally require more repairs. In many cases we believe these older vehicles are driven by DIY car owners who are more likely to handle any necessary repairs themselves rather than taking their car to the professional repair shop. 3.Growth of online sales. The U.S. Auto Care Association estimated that overall revenue from online sales of auto parts and accessories would reach over $23 billion by 2026. Improved product availability, lower prices and consumers growing comfort with digital platforms are driving the shift to online sales. We believe that we are well positioned for the shift to online sales due to being a leading source for aftermarket automotive parts through our flagship website, app, and online marketplaces. Executive Summary For fiscal year 2024, the Companys operations generated net sales of $588,846, compared to $675,729 for fiscal year 2023, representing a decrease of 12.9%. The Company incurred a net loss of $40,601 for fiscal year 2024 compared to a net loss of $8,223 for fiscal year 2023. The Companys net loss before interest (income) expense, net, income tax provision, depreciation and amortization expense, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, workforce transition costs, and distribution center costs ("Adjusted EBITDA"), was $(7,055) in 33 Table of Contents fiscal year 2024 compared to $19,687 in fiscal year 2023. Refer to the section below titled Non-GAAP measures for information regarding our use of Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation from net loss. Net sales decreased in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023 primarily driven by the continued challenging consumer environment and our re-pricing strategy to focus on higher value customers. Gross profit decreased by 14.2% to $196,739. Gross margin decreased 50 basis points to 33.4% in fiscal year 2024 compared to 33.9% in fiscal year 2023. The decrease in gross margin was primarily driven by unfavorable freight costs, partially offset by our re-pricing strategy. Total expenses, which primarily consisted of cost of sales and operating expense, increased in fiscal year 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. The components of cost of sales and operating costs are described in further detail under Components of Results of Operations below. Non-GAAP measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other provisions of the Exchange Act, as amended, define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. We provide EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures. EBITDA consists of net loss before (a) interest (income) expense, net; (b) income tax provision; (c) depreciation and amortization expense; and (d) amortization of intangible assets; while Adjusted EBITDA consists of EBITDA before share-based compensation expense, workforce transition costs, and distribution center costs. The Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide important supplemental information to management and investors. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of the Companys operations that, when viewed with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) results and the accompanying reconciliation to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting the Companys business and results of operations. Management uses Adjusted EBITDA as one measure of the Companys operating performance because it assists in comparing the Companys operating performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of stock compensation expense, as well as other items that we do not believe are representative of our ongoing operating performance. Internally, this non-GAAP measure is also used by management for planning purposes, including the preparation of internal budgets; for allocating resources to enhance financial performance; and for evaluating the effectiveness of operational strategies. The Company also believes that analysts and investors use Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to evaluate the ongoing operations of companies in our industry. This non-GAAP financial measure is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Management strongly encourages investors to review the Companys consolidated financial statements in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. In addition, the Company expects to continue to incur expenses similar to the non-GAAP adjustments described above, and exclusion of these items from the Companys non-GAAP measures should not be construed as an inference that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. 34 Table of Contents The table below reconciles net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2024 December 30, 2023 Net loss $ (40,601) $ (8,223) Depreciation & amortization 18,975 16,690 Amortization of intangible assets 121 36 Interest (income) expense, net (301) (636) Income tax provision 267 145 EBITDA $ (21,539) $ 8,012 Stock compensation expense $ 11,985 $ 11,675 Workforce transition costs(1) 617 Distribution center costs(2) 1,882 Adjusted EBITDA $ (7,055) $ 19,687 (1) We incurred workforce transition costs, primarily related to severance, as part of our recent workforce reductions. (2) We incurred certain non-recurring costs, primarily overlapping rent expense, attributable to moving to our new Las Vegas, Nevada distribution center. Components of Results of Operations Net Sales. Online and offline sales represent two different sales channels for our products. Online is our primary sales channel as we generate net sales primarily from eCommerce sales of auto parts to individual consumers through our mobile-friendly website at www.carparts.com, our app, and online marketplaces. Online marketplaces consist primarily of sales of our products on online marketplace websites, where we sell through online storefronts that we maintain on third-party owned websites such as eBay and Amazon. Our offline sales channel represents our distribution of products directly to commercial customers by selling auto parts to collision repair shops. Our offline sales channel also includes both stock ship distribution as well as drop ship programs for automotive warehouse distributors and other online resellers. The product mix includes the majority of our house brands stock ship parts, which include the replacement collision parts and our Kool-Vue mirror line. Cost of Sales. Cost of sales consists of the direct costs associated with procuring parts from suppliers and delivering products to customers. These costs include direct product costs, outbound freight and shipping costs, warehouse supplies and warranty costs, partially offset by purchase discounts. Depreciation and amortization expenses are excluded from cost of sales and included in operating expense. Operating Expense. Operating expense consists of marketing, general and administrative, fulfillment, and technology expense. We also include share-based compensation expense in the applicable operating expense category based on the respective equity award recipients function. Marketing expense consists of online advertising spend, television advertising, internet commerce facilitator fees and other advertising costs, as well as payroll and related expenses associated with our customer service and marketing personnel. General and administrative expense consists primarily of administrative payroll and related expenses, merchant processing fees, legal and professional fees and other administrative costs. Fulfillment expense consists primarily of payroll and related costs associated with our warehouse employees and our purchasing group, facilities rent, building maintenance, depreciation and other costs associated with inventory management and our wholesale operations. Technology expense consists primarily of payroll and related expenses of our information technology personnel, the cost of hosting our servers, communications expenses and internet connectivity costs, computer support and software development amortization expense. Marketing expense, general and administrative expense, and fulfillment expense also includes depreciation and amortization expense. Other Income, Net. Other income, net primarily consists of miscellaneous income or expense and interest income comprised primarily of interest income on investments. 35 Table of Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense on our outstanding revolving loan and letters of credit balances, deferred financing cost amortization and finance lease interest. Presentation of Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources The following discussion and analysis of our Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources includes a comparison of fiscal year 2024 to fiscal year 2023. A similar discussion and analysis which compares fiscal year 2023 to fiscal year 2022 may be found in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our annual report filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) under the Exchange Act on March 8, 2024. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the fiscal years presented, expressed as a percentage of net sales: Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2024 December 30, 2023 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 66.6 66.1 Gross profit 33.4 33.9 Operating expense 40.3 35.4 Loss from operations (6.9) (1.5) Other income (expense): Other income, net 0.2 0.5 Interest expense (0.2) (0.2) Total other income, net (0.0) 0.3 Loss before income taxes (6.9) (1.2) Income tax provision 0.0 0.0 Net loss (6.9) % (1.2) % Fifty-Two Weeks Ended December 28, 2024 Compared to the Fifty-Two Weeks Ended December 30, 2023 Net Sales and Gross Margin Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2024 December 30, 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Net sales $ 588,846 $ 675,729 $ (86,883) (12.9) % Cost of sales 392,107 446,323 (54,216) (12.1) % Gross profit $ 196,739 $ 229,406 $ (32,667) (14.2) % Gross margin 33.4 % 33.9 % (0.5) % Net sales decreased $86,883, or 12.9%, for fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023 primarily driven by the continued challenging consumer environment and our re-pricing strategy to focus on higher value customers. Gross profit decreased $32,667, or 14.2%, in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023. Gross margin decreased 50 basis points to 33.4% in fiscal year 2024 compared to 33.9% in fiscal year 2023. The decrease in gross margin was primarily driven by unfavorable freight costs, partially offset by our re-pricing strategy. 36 Table of Contents Operating Expense Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2024 December 30, 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Operating expense $ 237,374 $ 239,287 $ (1,913) (0.8) % Percent of net sales 40.3 % 35.4 % 4.9 % Operating expense decreased $1,913, or 0.8%, for fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023. Operating expense as a percent of net sales increased 4.9% to 40.3% in fiscal year 2024, mainly attributable to investments in our business, such as brand and marketing investments and one-time costs related to the move to the new Las Vegas distribution center, in addition to an unfavorable marketing spend. Total Other Income, Net Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2024 December 30, 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Total other income, net $ 301 $ 1,803 $ (1,502) (83.3) % Percent of net sales (0.0) % 0.3 % (0.3) % Total other income, net, decreased $1,502, or 83.3%, for fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023 primarily driven by a decrease in interest income due to a lower cash balance during 2024. Income Tax Provision Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2024 December 30, 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Income tax provision $ 267 $ 145 $ 122 84.1 % Percent of net sales 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740 - Income Taxes (ASC 740). Under the provisions of ASC 740, management is required to evaluate whether a valuation allowance should be established against its deferred tax assets based on the consideration of all available evidence using a more likely than not standard. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon taxable income in prior carryback years, estimates of future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and reversal of existing taxable temporary differences. ASC 740 provides that forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years or losses expected in early future years. As of December 28, 2024, due to cumulative losses in recent years, the Company maintained a valuation allowance in the amount of $45,463 against deferred tax assets that were not more likely than not to be realized. As of December 28, 2024, the Company had no material unrecognized tax benefits, interest or penalties related to federal and state income tax matters. As of December 28, 2024, the Companys federal and state NOL carryforwards were $127,019 and $93,822, respectively. Federal NOL carryforwards of $891 were acquired in the acquisition of WAG which are subject to Section 382 of the Code and limited to an annual usage limitation of $135. The Companys federal NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2029, while state NOL carryforwards also begin to expire in 2029. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity During the fifty-two weeks ended December 28, 2024, we primarily funded our operations with cash and cash equivalents generated from operations. We had cash and cash equivalents of $36,397 as of December 28, 2024, representing a $14,554 decrease from $50,951 of cash and cash equivalents as of December 30, 2023. Based on our 37 Table of Contents current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations and available funds under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to finance our operations through at least the next twelve months (see Debt and Available Borrowing Resources and Funding Requirements below). As of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023, our working capital was $48,445 and $80,352, respectively. Cash Flows Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2024 December 30, 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 10,338 $ 50,001 Net cash used in investing activities (20,557) (11,901) Net cash used in financing activities (4,422) (5,916) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 87 Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ (14,554) $ 32,184 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal years ended December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023 was $10,338 and $50,001, respectively. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by a lower net cash inflow from the change in working capital, in addition to the higher net loss for 2024. Investing Activities For the fiscal year ended December 28, 2024, net cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of additions to property and equipment of $20,573, which are mainly related to capitalized website and software development costs and machinery and equipment additions, primarily related to the new Las Vegas distribution center. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023, net cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of additions to property and equipment of $11,879, which are mainly related to capitalized website and software development costs. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $4,422 and $5,916 for the fiscal years ended December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023, respectively. The decrease was primarily attributable to the absence of proceeds from the exercise of stock options in 2024. Debt and Available Borrowing Resources Total debt was $12,313 as of December 28, 2024 compared to $16,635 as of December 30, 2023 and primarily consists of right-of-use obligations-finance. The Company maintains an asset-based revolving Credit Facility that provides for, among other things, a revolving commitment, which is subject to a borrowing base derived from certain receivables, inventory and property and equipment. On June 17, 2022, the Company and JPMorgan entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended, the Credit Agreement) amending and restating in its entirety the original Credit Agreement dated April 26, 2012. As amended, the Credit Agreement provides for the revolving commitment in an aggregate principal amount of up to $75,000 (formerly $30,000) and allows for an uncommitted ability to increase the aggregate principal amount by an additional $75,000 to $150,000 (formerly $40,000 maximum), subject to certain terms and conditions. The Credit Facility matures on June 17, 2027. As of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023, our outstanding revolving loan balance was $0, respectively. The outstanding standby letters of credit balance as of December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023 was $680, respectively, 38 Table of Contents and we had $0 of our trade letters of credit outstanding in accounts payable in our consolidated balance sheets. We use the trade letters of credit in the ordinary course of business to satisfy certain vendor obligations. Loans drawn under the Credit Facility bear interest at a per annum rate equal to either (a) SOFR plus an applicable margin of 1.50% to 2.00% per annum based on the Companys fixed charge coverage ratio, or (b) an alternate prime base rate subject to an increase from 0.00% to 0.50% per annum based on the Companys fixed charge coverage ratio. As of December 28, 2024, the Companys SOFR based interest rate was 6.46% and the Companys prime based rate was 8.00%. A commitment fee, based upon undrawn availability under the Credit Facility bearing interest at a rate of either 0.20% or 0.25% per annum based on the amount of undrawn availability, is payable monthly. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, cash receipts are deposited into a lock-box, which are at the Companys discretion unless the cash dominion period is in effect, during which cash receipts will be used to reduce amounts owing under the Credit Agreement. The cash dominion period is triggered in an event of default or if excess availability, as defined under the Credit Agreement, is less than the $9,000 (12% of the aggregate revolving commitment) for three consecutive business days, and will continue until, during the preceding 45 consecutive days, no event of default existed and excess availability has been greater than $9,000 at all times (with the trigger subject to adjustment based on the Companys revolving commitment). The Companys required excess availability related to the Covenant Testing Trigger Period (as defined under the Credit Agreement) is less than $7,500 (10% of the aggregate revolving commitment) for three consecutive business days, the Company shall be required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0 to 1.0, and continuing until excess availability has been greater than or equal to $7,500 at all times for 45 consecutive days (with the trigger subject to adjustment based on the Companys revolving commitment). Certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries are co-borrowers (together with the Company, the Borrowers) under the Credit Agreement, and certain other domestic subsidiaries are guarantors (the Guarantors and, together with the Borrowers, the Loan Parties) under the Credit Agreement. The Borrowers and the Guarantors are jointly and severally liable for the Borrowers obligations under the Credit Agreement. The Loan Parties obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured, subject to customary permitted liens and certain exclusions, by a perfected security interest in (a) all tangible and intangible assets and (b) all of the capital stock owned by the Loan Parties (limited, in the case of foreign subsidiaries, to 65% of the capital stock of such foreign subsidiaries). The Borrowers may voluntarily prepay the loans at any time. The Borrowers are required to make mandatory prepayments of the loans (without payment of a premium) with net cash proceeds received upon the occurrence of certain prepayment events, which include certain sales or other dispositions of collateral, certain casualty or condemnation events, certain equity issuances or capital contributions, and the incurrence of certain debt. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and customary affirmative and negative covenants applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries, including, among other things, restrictions on indebtedness, liens, fundamental changes, investments, dispositions, prepayment of other indebtedness, mergers, and dividends and other distributions. Events of default under the Credit Agreement include: failure to timely make payments due under the Credit Agreement; material misrepresentations or misstatements under the Credit Agreement and other related agreements; failure to comply with covenants under the Credit Agreement and other related agreements; certain defaults in respect of other material indebtedness; insolvency or other related events; certain defaulted judgments; certain ERISA-related events; certain security interests or liens under the loan documents cease to be, or are challenged by the Company or any of its subsidiaries as not being, in full force and effect; any loan document or any material provision of the same ceases to be in full force and effect; and certain criminal indictments or convictions of any Loan Party. As of December 28, 2024, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. See additional information in Note 4 Borrowings in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this report. 39 Table of Contents Funding Requirements Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations and available debt or equity financing will be sufficient to finance our operational cash needs through at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements may, however, vary materially from those now planned or anticipated. Changes in our operating plans, lower than anticipated net sales or gross margin, increased expenses, continued or worsened economic conditions, worsening operating performance by us, or other events, including those described in Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A may force us to sell assets or seek additional debt or equity financings in the future, including the issuance of additional common stock under a registration statement. There can be no assurance that we would be able to raise such additional financing or engage in asset sales on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to raise adequate additional financing or proceeds from asset sales, we will need to defer, reduce or eliminate significant planned expenditures, restructure or significantly curtail our operations. Seasonality We believe our business is somewhat seasonal in nature. It includes many categories, geographies, and channels which may experience seasonality from time to time based on various external factors. Additionally, seasonality may affect our product mix. These historical seasonality trends could continue, and such trends may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations in subsequent periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Nature of Operations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Nature of Operations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the following accounting policies and estimates set forth below involve a greater degree of judgment or complexity. Valuation of Inventory Inventory Reserve. Inventory primarily consists of finished goods. We purchase inventory from suppliers both domestically and internationally, primarily in Taiwan and China. Inventory is accounted for using the first-in first-out (FIFO) method and valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. We recognize provisions for obsolete and slow-moving inventory primarily based on judgments about expected disposition of inventory, generally, through sales, or liquidations of obsolete inventory, and expected recoverable values based on currently-available or historical information. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those anticipated by management, additional write-offs to reduce the value of our inventory may be required. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. We assess potential impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our long-lived assets, or asset group, may not be recoverable. If an indicator of impairment exists, we review the recoverability of our long-lived assets by estimating the undiscounted future cash flows compared to the carrying value of such assets. An impairment loss will result when the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows of the asset group. Impairment losses will be recognized in operating results. No impairment charges were recorded for the fiscal years ended December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023. 40 Table of Contents