ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Dollar Amounts in Thousands, Except Per Share Data, or as Otherwise Noted) Cautionary Statement You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Certain statements in this report, including statements regarding our business strategies, operations, financial condition, and prospects are forward-looking statements. Use of the words anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would, will likely continue, will likely result and similar expressions that contemplate future events may identify forward-looking statements. The information contained in this section is not a complete description of our business or the risks associated with an investment in our common stock. We urge you to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in this report and in our other reports filed with the SEC, which are available on the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. The section entitled Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this report, and similar discussions in our other SEC filings, describe some of the important factors, risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these or any other forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and reflect managements opinions only as of the date thereof. We do not assume any obligation to revise or update forward-looking statements. Finally, our historic results should not be viewed as indicative of future performance. Overview We are a leading online provider of aftermarket auto parts, including collision parts, engine parts, and performance parts and accessories. Our user-friendly websites provide customers with a broad selection of SKUs, with detailed product descriptions and photographs. Our proprietary product database maps our SKUs to product applications based on vehicle makes, models and years. We principally sell our products to individual consumers through our network of websites and online marketplaces. Our flagship consumer websites are located at www.carparts.com, www.jcwhitney.com, www.autopartswarehouse.com and our corporate website is located at www.usautoparts.com . The inclusion of our website addresses in this report does not include or incorporate by reference into this report any information on our websites. We believe our strategy of disintermediating the traditional auto parts supply chain and selling products directly to customers over the Internet allows us to efficiently deliver products to our customers. Industry-wide trends that support our strategy include: 1. Number of SKUs required to serve the market. The number of automotive SKUs has grown dramatically over the last several years. In todays market, unless the consumer is driving a high volume produced vehicle and needs a simple maintenance item, the part they need is not typically on the shelf at a brick-and-mortar store. We believe our user-friendly websites provide customers with a favorable alternative to the brick-and-mortar shopping experience by offering a comprehensive selection of over 1.2 million SKUs with detailed product descriptions, attributes and photographs combined with the flexibility of fulfilling orders using both drop-ship and stock-and-ship methods. 2. U.S. vehicle fleet expanding and aging. The average age of U.S. light vehicles, an indicator of auto parts demand, remained near record-highs at 11.8 years during 2019, according to the U.S. Auto Care Association, up from 11.7 years during 2018. In addition, IHS, a market analytics firm, found that the total number of light vehicles in operation in the U.S. has increased to record levels, and should continue to rise through 2020. We believe an increasing vehicle base and rising average age of vehicles will have a positive impact on overall aftermarket parts demand because older vehicles generally require more repairs. In many 27 Table of Contents cases we believe these older vehicles are driven by do-it-yourself ("DIY") car owners who are more likely to handle any necessary repairs themselves rather than taking their car to the professional repair shop. 3. Growth of online sales. The U.S. Auto Care Association estimated that overall revenue from online sale s of auto parts and accessories would reach approximately $13.2 billion in 2018 and more than double by 2023. Improved product availability, lower prices and consumers growing comfort with digital platforms are driving the shift to online sales. We believe that we are well positioned for the shift to online sales due to our history of being a leading source for aftermarket automotive parts through online marketplaces and our network of websites. Our History . We were formed in California in 1995 as a distributor of aftermarket auto parts and launched our first website in 2000. We reincorporated in Delaware in 2006 and expanded our online operations, increasing the number of SKUs sold through our e-commerce network, adding additional websites, improving our Internet marketing proficiency and commencing sales in online marketplaces. Additionally, in August 2010, through our acquisition of Whitney Automotive Group, Inc. (referred to herein as WAG), we expanded our product-lines and increased our customer reach in the DIY automobile and off-road accessories market. International Operations . In April 2007, we established offshore operations in the Philippines. Our offshore operations allow us to access a workforce with the necessary technical skills at a significantly lower cost than comparably experienced U.S.-based professionals. Our offshore operations are responsible for a majority of our website development, catalog management, and back office support. Our offshore operations also house our main call center. We had 508 employees in the Philippines as of December 28, 2019. We believe that the cost advantages of our offshore operations provide us with the ability to grow our business in a more cost-effective manner than using U.S.-based resources. Key Metrics. To understand revenue generation through our network of e-commerce websites and online marketplaces, we monitor several key business metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, develop financial forecasts and make strategic decisions, including the following: 52 Weeks Ended 52 Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 Unique Visitors (millions) (1) 59.5 69.3 E-commerce Orders (thousands) 1,705 1,760 Online Marketplace Orders (thousands) 1,707 1,573 Total Online Orders (thousands) 3,412 3,333 E-commerce Average Order Value $ 90 $ 98 Online Marketplace Average Order Value $ 69 $ 73 Total Online Average Order Value $ 80 $ 86 Revenue Capture (1) 88.7 % 87.5 % Conversion (1) 2.87 % 2.54 % 1 Excludes online marketplaces. Unique Visitors: A unique visitor to a particular website represents a user with a distinct IP address that visits that particular website. We define the total number of unique visitors in a given month as the sum of unique visitors to each of our websites during that month. We measure unique visitors to understand the volume of traffic to our websites and to track the effectiveness of our online marketing efforts. The number of unique visitors has historically varied based on a number of factors, including our marketing activities and seasonality. Included in the unique visitors are mobile device based customers, who are becoming an increasing part of our business. Shifting consumer behavior and technology enhancements indicates that customers are becoming more inclined to purchase auto parts through their mobile devices. User sophistication and technological advances have increased consumer expectations around the user experience on mobile devices, including speed of response, functionality, product availability, security, and ease of use. We believe enhancements to online solutions specifically catering to mobile based shopping can result in an increase in the number of orders and revenues. We believe an increase in unique visitors to our websites will result in an increase in the number 28 Table of Contents of orders. We seek to increase the number of unique visitors to our websites by attracting repeat customers and improving search engine marketing and other internet marketing activities. During fiscal year 2019, our unique visitors decreased by 14.1% compared to the fiscal year 2018 primarily due to our focus on private label sales, which led us to proactively reduce marketing spend for branded product sales. Total Number of Orders: We monitor the total number of orders as an indicator of future revenue trends. During the fiscal year 2019, the total number of orders increased by 2.4% compared to the fiscal year 2018, with e-commerce and online marketplace orders decreasing by 3.1% and increasing by 8.5%, respectively. We believe total number of orders increased primarily due to improved conversion, driven by enhanced customer experience as well as increased marketing and inventory optimization efforts. Average Order Value: Average order value represents our net sales on a placed orders basis for a given period of time divided by the total number of orders recorded during the same period of time. During the fiscal year 2019, our average order value decreased by 7.0% when compared to the fiscal year 2018 primarily driven by decreases in e-commerce order value as well as a shift in product mix toward private label products which are priced lower than branded products, yet have higher gross margins. We seek to increase the average order value as a means of increasing net sales. Average order values vary depending upon a number of factors, including the components of our product offering, the order volume in certain online sales channels, mix changes between private label and branded, macro-economic conditions, and the online competition. Revenue Capture: Revenue capture is the amount of actual dollars retained after taking into consideration returns, credit card declines and product fulfillment. During the fiscal year 2019, our revenue capture increased by 1.4% to 88.7% compared to 87.5% in fiscal year 2018 primarily due to an improved fill rate resulting from higher inventory levels on hand during the year. Conversion: Conversion is the number of orders as a rate to the total number of unique visitors. This rate indicates how well we convert a visitor to a customer sales order. During fiscal year 2019, our conversion increased by 13.0% to 2.9% in fiscal year 2019 compared to 2.5% in fiscal year 2018 as a result of initiatives designed to improve the overall customer experience as well as shifts in channel mix and declines in traffic. Executive Summary For fiscal 2019, the Companys continuing operations generated net sales of $280,657, compared with $289,467 for fiscal year 2018, representing a decrease of 3.0% compared to the prior year. Our continuing operations incurred a net loss for fiscal 2019 of $31,548, compared to a net loss of $4,889 for fiscal 2018, attributable largely to a $21,437 non-cash income tax charge resulting from a change in the valuation allowance. Our continuing operations incurred a loss before interest expense, net, income tax provision, depreciation and amortization expense, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation expense and costs related to our customs issues and employee transition costs ("Adjusted EBITDA"), of $4,532 in fiscal 2019 compared to $10,379 in fiscal 2018. Adjusted EBITDA, which is not a Generally Accepted Accounting Principle (GAAP) measure, is presented because management uses it as one measure of the Companys operating performance, as it assists in comparing the Companys operating performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of stock compensation expense, as well as items that are not expected to be recurring. Internally, this non-GAAP measure is also used by management for planning purposes, including the preparation of internal budgets; for allocating resources to enhance financial performance; and for evaluating the effectiveness of operational strategies. The Company also believes that such measure is used by rating agencies, securities analysts, investors and other parties in evaluating the Company. It should not be considered, however, as an alternative to operating income, or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of the Companys overall liquidity, as presented in the Companys consolidated financial statements. Further, the Adjusted EBITDA measure shown may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Refer to the table presented below for reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA. Total revenues decreased in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decline in our offline sales, and to a lesser extent, due to a decrease in our online sales. Our offline sales, which consist of our Kool-Vue and wholesale 29 Table of Contents operations, contributed 8.8% of total revenues and our online sales, which include our e-commerce, online marketplace sales channels and online advertising, contributed 91.2% of total revenues. Our offline sales decreased by $6,853, or 21.8%, to $24,607 compared to the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in revenue from our wholesale operations. Our online sales for fiscal year 2019 decreased by $1,957 or 0.8%, to $256,050 due to a decrease in total online orders of 2.4% and a lower average order value . The decreases were primarily attributable to decreases in marketplace sales with one of our channel partners, as well as due to a decrease in e-commerce sales attributable to a reduction of traffic and a shift in our focus to private label sales vs. branded sales. Like most e-commerce retailers, our success depends on our ability to attract online consumers to our websites and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner. Historically, marketing through search engines provided the most efficient opportunity to reach millions of online auto part buyers. We are included in search results through paid search listings, where we purchase specific search terms that will result in the inclusion of our listing, and algorithmic searches that depend upon the searchable content on our websites. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased and instead are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas utilized by the search engine. We have had a history of success with our search engine marketing techniques, which gave our different websites preferred positions in search results. Search engines, like Google, revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. During the last few years, Google has changed its search results ranking algorithm. In some cases our unique visitor count, and therefore our financial results, were negatively impacted by these changes. We continue to address the ongoing changes to the Google methodology, but during the fiscal year 2019, our unique visitor count decreased by 9,800 or 14.1%, to 59 ,500 unique visitors compared to 69 ,300 unique visitors in fiscal 2018 primarily driven by our focus on private label sales, which led us to proactively reduce marketing spend for branded product sales . As in the past we expect Google will continue to make changes in their search engine algorithms to improve their user experience. As we are significantly dependent upon search engines for our website traffic, if we are unable to address these ongoing changes and attract unique visitors, our business and results of operations will be harmed. Total expenses, which primarily consisted of cost of sales and operating costs, increased in fiscal year 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. Components of our cost of sales and operating costs are described in further detail under Basis of Presentation below. We continue to pursue strategies to improve sales growth and gross profit while reducing operating costs as percent of sales: We believe we can return to positive e-commerce growth by continuing to focus on making the auto parts purchasing process as easy and seamless as possible. We plan to continue to provide unique catalog content and provide better content on our websites with the goal of improving our ranking on the search results. We continue to work to improve the website purchase experience for our customers by (1) helping our customers find the parts they want to buy by reducing failed searches and increasing user purchase confidence; (2) implementing guided navigation and custom buying experiences specific to strategic part names; (3) increasing order size across our sites through improved recommendation engines; (4) improving our site speed; and (5) creating a frictionless checkout experience for our customers. In addition, we intend to continue to improve our mobile enabled features to take advantage of shifting consumer behaviors. These efforts are intended to increase the conversion rate of our visitors to customers, the total number of orders and average order value, and the number of repeat purchases, as well as contribute to our revenue growth. We continue to work towards becoming one of the preferred low price options in the market for aftermarket auto parts and accessories. We also continue to offer lower prices by increasing foreign sourced private label products as they are generally less expensive and we believe provide better value for the consumer. We believe our product offering can improve the conversion rate of visitors to our websites, grow our revenues and improve our margins. 30 Table of Contents We continue to increase product selection by being the first to market with many new SKUs. We currently have over 58,000 private label SKUs and over 700,000 branded SKUs in our product selection. We will continue to seek to add new categories and expand our existing specialty categories. We believe continued product expansion will increase the total number of orders and contribute to our revenue growth. Additionally, we plan to continue to maintain certain in-stock inventory throughout the year to provide consistent service levels and improve customer experience. We continue to im plement cost saving measures. Non-GAAP measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. We provide EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures. EBITDA consists of net income (loss) before (a) interest expense, net; (b) income tax provision; (c) depreciation and amortization expense; and (d) amortization of intangible assets; while Adjusted EBITDA consists of EBITDA before share-based compensation expense, costs related to our customs issues and employee transition costs. The Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide important supplemental information to management and investors. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of the Companys operations that, when viewed with the GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting the Companys business and results of operations. Management uses Adjusted EBITDA as one measure of the Companys operating performance because it assists in comparing the Companys operating performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of stock compensation expense and costs associated with our customs issues, as well as other items that allow for a more meaningful comparison of our core business results and those of other companies. Internally, this non-GAAP measure is also used by management for planning purposes, including the preparation of internal budgets; for allocating resources to enhance financial performance; and for evaluating the effectiveness of operational strategies. The Company also believes that analysts and investors use Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to evaluate the ongoing operations of companies in our industry. This non-GAAP financial measure is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Management strongly encourages investors to review the Companys consolidated financial statements in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. In addition, the Company expects to continue to incur expenses similar to the non-GAAP adjustments described above, and exclusion of these items from the Companys non-GAAP measures should not be construed as an inference that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. 31 Table of Contents The table below reconciles net loss from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in thousands): Fifty-two weeks ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 Net loss from continuing operations (31,548) (4,889) Depreciation & amortization 6,252 5,802 Amortization of intangible assets 100 185 Interest expense, net 1,897 1,595 Taxes 21,437 (329) EBITDA $ (1,862) $ 2,364 Stock compensation expense $ 3,656 $ 3,595 Employee transition costs (1) 2,274 774 Customs Costs (2) 464 5,046 Proceeds from AutoMD sale (1,400) Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,532 $ 10,379 (1) We incurred employee transition costs related to the transition of our executive management team including severance, recruiting, hiring bonus and relocation costs. (2) We incurred port and carrier fees and legal costs associated with our customs related issues. Refer to Note 8 Commitments and Contingencies of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Basis of Presentation Net Sales. Online and offline sales represent two different sales channels for our products. We generate online net sales primarily through the sale of auto parts to individual consumers through our network of e-commerce websites, online marketplace sales channels and online advertising. E-commerce sales are derived from our network of websites, which we own and operate. E-commerce and online marketplace sales also include inbound telephone sales through our call center that supports these sales channels. Online marketplaces consist primarily of sales of our products on online marketplace websites, where we sell through storefronts that we maintain on third-party owned websites. Prior to March 2019, we sold advertising and sponsorship positions on our e-commerce websites to highlight vendor brands and offer complementary products and services that benefit our customers. Advertising is targeted to specific sections of the websites and can also be targeted to specific users based on the vehicles they drive. Advertising partners primarily include part vendors, national automotive aftermarket brands and automobile manufacturers. Our offline sales channel represents our distribution of products directly to commercial customers by selling auto parts to collision repair shops. Our offline sales channel also includes both stock ship distribution as well as drop ship programs for automotive warehouse distributors and other online resellers. The product mix includes the majority of our private labeled stock ship items, which include the replacement collision parts and our Kool-Vue mirror line. Cost of Sales. Cost of sales consists of the direct costs associated with procuring parts from suppliers and delivering products to customers. These costs include direct product costs, outbound freight and shipping costs, warehouse supplies and warranty costs, partially offset by purchase discounts and cooperative advertising. Depreciation and amortization expenses are excluded from cost of sales and included in marketing, general and administrative and fulfillment expenses as noted below. Marketing Expense. Marketing expense consists of online advertising spend, internet commerce facilitator fees and other advertising costs, as well as payroll and related expenses associated with our marketing catalog, customer service and sales personnel. These costs are generally variable and are typically a function of net sales. Marketing expense also includes depreciation and amortization expense and share-based compensation expense. 32 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expense. General and administrative expense consists primarily of administrative payroll and related expenses, merchant processing fees, legal and professional fees and other administrative costs. General and administrative expense also includes depreciation and amortization expense and share-based compensation expense. Fulfillment Expense . Fulfillment expense consists primarily of payroll and related costs associated with our warehouse employees and our purchasing group, facilities rent, building maintenance, depreciation and other costs associated with inventory management and our wholesale operations. Fulfillment expense also includes share-based compensation expense. Technology Expense. Technology expense consists primarily of payroll and related expenses of our information technology personnel, the cost of hosting our servers, communications expenses and Internet connectivity costs, computer support and software development amortization expense. Technology expense also includes share-based compensation expense. Amortization of Intangible Assets . Amortization of intangibles consists of the amortization expense associated with our definite-lived intangible assets. Impairment Loss . Impairment loss is recorded as a result of impairment testing performed for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in accordance with Accounting Standards Update (ASC) 350 Intangibles Goodwill and Other, and long-lived assets (ASC 350), including intangible assets subject to amortization, in accordance with ASC 360 Property, Plant and Equipment (ASC 360). Other Income, Net. Other income, net consists of miscellaneous income or expense such as gains/losses from disposition of assets, and interest income comprised primarily of interest income on investments. Interest Expense . Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense on our outstanding loan balance, deferred financing cost amortization and capital lease interest. 33 Table of Contents Results of Continuing Operations The following table sets forth selected statement of operations data for the periods indicated, expressed as a percentage of net sales: Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 70.0 72.8 Gross profit 30.0 27.2 Operating expenses: Marketing 15.8 13.2 General and administrative 6.3 6.9 Fulfillment 8.9 7.4 Technology 1.9 1.4 Amortization of intangible assets 0.0 0.1 Total operating expenses 32.9 28.9 Loss from operations (2.9) (1.7) Other income (expense): Other income, net 0.0 0.5 Interest expense (0.7) (0.6) Total other expense, net (0.7) (0.1) Loss before income taxes (3.6) (1.8) Income tax provision (benefit) 7.6 (0.1) Net loss (11.2) % (1.7) % Fifty-Two Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Compared to the Fifty-Two Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Net Sales and Gross Margin Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Net sales $ 280,657 $ 289,467 $ (8,810) (3.0) % Cost of sales 196,434 210,746 (14,312) (6.8) % Gross profit $ 84,223 $ 78,721 $ 5,502 7.0 % Gross margin 30.0 % 27.2 % 2.8 % Net sales decreased $8,810 for fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018. Our net sales consisted of online sales, which include our e-commerce sites, online marketplace sales channels and online advertising, representing 91.2% of the total for fiscal year 2019 (compared to 89.1% in fiscal year 2018), and offline sales, representing 8.8% of the total for fiscal year 2019 (compared to 10.9% in fiscal year 2018). The net sales decrease was due to a decrease of $1,957, or 0.8%, in online sales, and a decrease of $6,853, or 21.8%, in offline sales. Offline sales decreased primarily due to decreased revenue from wholesale operations. Our online sales decreased primarily due to a decrease in total online orders of 2.4%, as well as a decrease in average order value of 7.0%. The decrease in total orders was primarily attributable to a decrease in marketplace sales with one of our channel partners, as well as due to a decrease in e-commerce sales attributable to a reduction of traffic and a shift in our focus to private label sales vs. branded sales. Gross profit increased $5,502, or 7.0%, in fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018. Gross margin increased 280 basis points to 30.0% in fiscal year 2019 compared to 27.2% in fiscal year 2018. Gross margin increased in fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018 primarily due to a shift towards higher margin private label sales. 34 Table of Contents Marketing Expense Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Marketing expense $ 44,341 $ 38,081 $ 6,260 16.4 Percent of net sales 15.8 % 13.2 % 2.6 % Total marketing expense increased $6,260, or 16.4%, for fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018. As a percent to net sales, total marketing expense was 15.8% for fiscal 2019 compared to 13.2% for fiscal year 2018. Online advertising expense, which includes catalog costs, was $25,691, or 10.0%, of online sales for fiscal year 2019, compared to $20,942, or 8.1%, of online sales for fiscal year 2018. Online advertising expense increased primarily due to an increase in paid search advertising. Marketing expense, excluding online advertising, was $18,649, or 6.6%, of net sales for fiscal year 2019, compared to $17,181, or 5.9%, of net sales for fiscal year 2018. The increase was primarily due to an increase in overhead driven by investments in marketing platforms and employees. General and Administrative Expense Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) General and administrative expense $ 17,744 $ 19,964 $ (2,220) (11.1) % Percent of net sales 6.3 % 6.9 % (0.6) % General and administrative expense decreased $2,220, or 11.1%, for fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018 primarily due to decreased depreciation and amortization. General and administrative expense decreased as a percentage of net sales compared to 2018 primarily due to a decrease in stock based compensation expense as well as lower legal fees resulting from customs issues in 2018. Fulfillment Expense Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Fulfillment expense $ 24,946 $ 21,310 $ 3,636 17.1 % Percent of net sales 8.9 % 7.4 % 1.5 Fulfillment expense increased $3,636, or 17.1%, for fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018 primarily due to an increase in overhead and employee costs. Fulfillment expense increased as a percentage of net sales compared to 2018 due primarily to an increased number of orders shipped out of our distribution centers as well as the opening of the third warehouse in Las Vegas, Nevada. Technology Expense Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Technology expense $ 5,342 $ 4,188 $ 1,154 27.6 % Percent of net sales 1.9 % 1.4 % 0.5 % Technology expense increased $1,154, or 27.6%, for fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018 primarily due to increased overhead driven by employee costs. Technology expense increased as a percentage of net sales compared to 2018 primarily due to PCI compliance costs and increased headcount. 35 Table of Contents Total Other Expense, Net Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Other expense, net $ (1,861) $ (211) $ (1,650) 782.0 % Percent of net sales (0.7) % (0.1) % (0.6) Total other expense, net increased $1,650, or 782.0%, for fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018. Total other expense increased during fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018 primarily due to interest expense compared to the prior year, as well as the sale of AutoMD assets for $1,400 in 2018. Income Tax Provision Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Income tax (benefit) provision $ 21,437 $ (329) $ 21,766 (6,615.8) % Percent of net sales 7.6 % (0.1) % 7.8 % The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740 - Income Taxes (ASC 740). Under the provisions of ASC 740, management is required to evaluate whether a valuation allowance should be established against its deferred tax assets based on the consideration of all available evidence using a more likely than not standard. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon taxable income in prior carryback years, estimates of future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and reversal of existing taxable temporary difference. ASC 740 provides that forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years or losses expected in early future years. As of December 28, 2019, when revaluating all available evidence, including (1) recent history of operating losses, (2) inability to objectively estimate future income and (3) lack of (i) tax planning strategies, (ii) income in carryback periods and (iii) reversing existing temporary differences, management considered it appropriate to record an additional valuation allowance of approximately $23,015 against our deferred tax assets. As of December, 29, 2018, the Company maintained a valuation allowance in the amount of $29,791 against deferred tax assets that were nor more likely than not to be realized. As of each reporting date, the Companys management considers new evidence, both positive and negative, that could impact managements view with regard to future realization of deferred tax assets. As we continue to assess our operations, to the extent our results and expectations of core earnings continue, we may be in a position to release additional valuation allowance in the future. As of December 28, 2019, the Company had no material unrecognized tax benefits, interest or penalties related to federal and state income tax matters. At December 28, 2019, the Companys federal and state net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards were $85,830 and $79,643, respectively. Federal NOL carryforwards of $2,106 were acquired in the acquisition of WAG which are subject to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code) and limited to an annual usage limitation of $135. The Companys federal NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2029, while the Companys state NOL carryforwards being to expire in 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity During the fifty-two weeks ended December 28, 2019, we primarily funded our continuing operations with cash and cash equivalents generated from operations as well as through borrowing under our credit facility. We had cash and cash equivalents of $2,273 as of December 28, 2019, representing a $242 increase from $2,031 of cash and cash equivalents as of December 29, 2018. Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, 36 Table of Contents investments, cash flows from operations and available funds under our credit facility will be sufficient to finance our operations through at least the next twelve months (see Debt and Available Borrowing Resources and Funding Requirements below). As of December 28, 2019, our credit facility provided for a revolving commitment of up to $30,000 subject to a borrowing base derived from certain of our receivables, inventory and property and equipment (see Debt and Available Borrowing Resources below). Working Capital As of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, our working capital was $2,472 and $10,466, respectively. Our revolving loan does not require principal payments, however it is classified as current due to certain U.S. GAAP requirements (see Debt and Available Borrowing Resources below for further details). The decrease in working capital is primarily due to an increase in accounts payable. Cash Flows The following table summarizes the key cash flow metrics from our consolidated statements of cash flows for fiscal year 2019, and 2018, respectively (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,877 $ 6,181 Net cash used in investing activities (6,160) (5,688) Net cash used in financing activities (465) (1,283) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (10) (29) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 242 $ (819) Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities is primarily comprised of net loss, adjusted for non-cash activities such as deferred income tax, depreciation and amortization expense, amortization of intangible assets and share-based compensation expense. These non-cash adjustments represent charges reflected in net income and, therefore, to the extent that non-cash items increase or decrease our operating results, there will be no corresponding impact on our cash flows. Net income adjusted for non-cash adjustments to operating activities was $(233) (adjusted for non-cash charges primarily consisting of deferred income tax of 21,287, depreciation and amortization expense of $6,252 and share-based compensation expense of $3,656) for the period ended December 28, 2019 compared to $4,267 (adjusted for non-cash charges primarily consisting of depreciation and amortization expense of $5,802 and share-based compensation expense of $3,595) for the period ended December 29, 2018. After excluding the effects of the non-cash charges, the primary changes in cash flows relating to operating activities resulted from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Accounts receivable decreased to $2,669 at December 28, 2019 from $3,727 at December 29, 2018, resulting in a decrease in operating assets and reflecting a cash inflow of $1,058 for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019. Accounts receivable increased primarily due to the timing of payments at the end of the year. Inventory increased to $52,500 at December 28, 2019 from $49,626 at December 29, 2018, resulting in an increase in operating assets and reflecting a cash outflow of $2,874 for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019. Accounts payable and accrued expenses increased to $53,952 at December 28, 2019 compared to $44,286 at December 29, 2018 resulting in an increase in operating liabilities and reflecting a cash inflow of $9,666 37 Table of Contents for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019. Accounts payable and accrued expenses increased primarily due to an increase in accounts payable of $10,394. Investing Activities For the fiscal years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of increases in property and equipment ($6,160, and $5,689 respectively). Property and equipment is primarily internally developed software. Capitalized costs include amounts directly related to website and software development, primarily payroll and payroll related costs for employees and outside contractors who are directly associated with and devote time to the internal use software project. Financing Activities For the fiscal years ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018, net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to payments made on capital leases (see further discussion in Note 8 Commitments and Contingencies below). Debt and Available Borrowing Resources Total debt was $ 11,056 as of December 28, 2019 compared to $9,153 as of December 29, 2018. Total debt as of December 28, 2019 consisted of Right-of-use ( "ROU") obligation financing totaling $9,267 and a financing arrangement with a third-party financial institution related to the development of the Companys warehouse located in Las Vegas totaling $1,789. Of this total debt, $1,369 was included in current liabilities and $9,687 was included in non-current liabilities (see further discussion in Note 8 Commitments and Contingencies below). The Company maintains an asset-based revolving credit facility ("Credit Facility") that provides for, among other things a revolving commitment in an aggregate principal amount of up to $30,000, which is subject to a borrowing base derived from certain receivables, inventory and property and equipment. Our Credit Facility also provides for an option to increase the aggregate principal amount from $30,000 to $40,000 subject to lender approval. At December 28, 2019, our outstanding revolving loan balance was $0. The customary events of default under the credit facility (discussed below) include certain subjective acceleration clauses, which management has determined the likelihood of such acceleration is more than remote, considering the recurring losses experienced by the Company, therefore a current classification of our revolving loan payable was required. On December 18, 2019, the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPMorgan) entered into the Eleventh Amendment (the Amendment) which amended the Credit Agreement previously entered into by the Company, certain of its domestic subsidiaries and JPMorgan on April 26, 2012 and the Pledge and Security Agreement previously entered into by the Company, certain of its domestic subsidiaries and JPMorgan on April 26, 2012. Pursuant to the Amendment, among other changes, the maturity date of the Credit Agreement was extended from April 26, 2020 to December 16, 2022, the net orderly liquidation value inventory advance rate was increased from 90% to 95% for a six-month period following the effective date of the Amendment, and the Companys $5,000 basket for sales and dispositions of property in connection with Permitted Acquisitions (as defined in the Credit Agreement) was made available in full following the effective date of the Amendment. On January 17, 2020, the Company and JPMorgan entered into the Twelfth Amendment to Credit Agreement and Fifth Amendment to Pledge and Security Agreement (the Twelfth Amendment), which amended the Credit Agreement previously entered into by the Company, certain of its domestic subsidiaries and JPMorgan on April 26, 2012 and the Pledge and Security Agreement previously entered into by the Company, certain of its domestic subsidiaries and JPMorgan on April 26, 2012. Pursuant to the Twelfth Amendment, letters of credit will be made available to the Company, subject to certain customary restrictions and conditions, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $25,000, an increase from $20,000. As of December 28, 2019, our outstanding letters of credit balance was $17,638. 38 Table of Contents The other amendments to the Credit Agreement made under the Twelfth Amendment were as follows: Solely until March 31, 2020 and for purposes of the covenant testing and cash dominion triggers in the Credit Agreement, the facility will incorporate elements of the borrowing base above the $30,000 available to borrow. Until March 31, 2020, the Company will be subject to reporting on a weekly basis with respect to the borrowing base and other metrics. Customary LIBOR successor provisions were added to the Credit Agreement. Loans drawn under the credit facility bear interest at a per annum rate equal to either (a) LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 1.75%, or (b) a alternate base rate subject to an increase or reduction by up to 0.25% per annum based on the Companys fixed charge coverage ratio. At December 28, 2019, the Companys LIBOR based interest rate was 3.56% (on $0 principal) and the Companys prime based rate was 5.0% (on $0 principal). A commitment fee, based upon undrawn availability under the Credit Facility bearing interest at a rate of 0.25% per annum, is payable monthly. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, cash receipts are deposited into a lock-box, which are at the Companys discretion unless the cash dominion period is in effect, during which cash receipts will be used to reduce amounts owing under the Credit Agreement. The cash dominion period is triggered in an event of default or if excess availability is less than the $3,600 for three consecutive business days, and will continue until, during the preceding 45 consecutive days, no event of default existed and excess availability has been greater than $3,600 at all times (with the trigger subject to adjustment based on the Companys revolving commitment). The Companys required excess availability related to the Covenant Testing Trigger Period (as defined under the Credit Agreement) under the revolving commitment under the Credit Agreement is less than $3,000 for the period commencing on any day that excess availability is less than $3,000 for three consecutive business days, and continuing until excess availability has been greater than or equal to $ 3,000 at all times for 45 consecutive days (with the trigger subject to adjustment based on the Companys revolving commitment). The Companys excess availability was $6,622 at December 28, 2019. The credit facility matures on December 16, 2022. As of December 28, 2019, our outstanding letters of credit balance was $17,638 of which $13,011 was utilized and included in accounts payable in our consolidated balance sheet. Certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries are co-borrowers (together with the Company, the Borrowers) under the Credit Agreement, and certain other domestic subsidiaries are guarantors (the Guarantors and, together with the Borrowers, the Loan Parties) under the Credit Agreement. The Borrowers and the Guarantors are jointly and severally liable for the Borrowers obligations under the Credit Agreement. The Loan Parties obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured, subject to customary permitted liens and certain exclusions, by a perfected security interest in (a) all tangible and intangible assets and (b) all of the capital stock owned by the Loan Parties (limited, in the case of foreign subsidiaries, to 65% of the capital stock of such foreign subsidiaries). The Borrowers may voluntarily prepay the loans at any time. The Borrowers are required to make mandatory prepayments of the loans (without payment of a premium) with net cash proceeds received upon the occurrence of certain prepayment events, which include certain sales or other dispositions of collateral, certain casualty or condemnation events, certain equity issuances or capital contributions, and the incurrence of certain debt. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and customary affirmative and negative covenants applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries, including, among other things, restrictions on indebtedness, liens, fundamental changes, investments, dispositions, prepayment of other indebtedness, mergers, and dividends and other distributions. Events of default under the Credit Agreement include: failure to timely make payments due under the Credit Agreement; material misrepresentations or misstatements under the Credit Agreement and other related agreements; failure to comply with covenants under the Credit Agreement and other related agreements; certain defaults in respect of other material indebtedness; insolvency or other related events; certain defaulted judgments; certain ERISA-related events; certain security interests or liens under the loan documents cease to be, or are challenged by the Company or any of its subsidiaries as not being, in full force and effect; any loan document or any material provision of the same ceases 39 Table of Contents to be in full force and effect; and certain criminal indictments or convictions of any Loan Party. As of December 28, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. Our Credit Facility requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants which could limit our ability to react to market conditions or satisfy extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing and operations. If we are unable to satisfy the financial covenants and tests at any time, we may as a result cease being able to borrow under the Credit Facility or be required to immediately repay loans under the Credit Facility, and our liquidity and capital resources and ability to operate our business could be severely impacted, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In those events, we may need to sell assets or seek additional equity or additional debt financing or attempt to modify our existing Credit Agreement. There can be no assurance that we would be able to raise such additional financing or engage in such asset sales on acceptable terms, or at all, or that we would be able to modify our existing Credit Agreement. See additional information in Note 4 Borrowings of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Funding Requirements Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations and available debt financing will be sufficient to finance our operational cash needs through at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements may, however, vary materially from those now planned or anticipated. Changes in our operating plans, lower than anticipated net sales or gross margins, increased expenses, continued or worsened economic conditions, worsening operating performance by us, or other events, including those described in Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A may force us to sell assets or seek additional debt or equity financings in the future, including the issuance of additional common stock under a registration statement. There can be no assurance that we would be able to raise such additional financing or engage in asset sales on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to raise adequate additional financing or proceeds from asset sales, we will need to defer, reduce or eliminate significant planned expenditures, restructure or significantly curtail our operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant off-balance sheet arrangements. Seasonality We believe our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. We have historically experienced higher sales of collision parts in winter months when inclement weather and hazardous road conditions typically result in more automobile collisions. Engine parts and performance parts and accessories have historically experienced higher sales in the summer months when consumers have more time to undertake elective projects to maintain and enhance the performance of their automobiles and the warmer weather during that time is conducive for such projects. We expect the historical seasonality trends to continue to have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations during the reporting periods in any given year. Inflation Inflation has not had a material impact upon our operating results, and we do not expect it to have such an impact in the near future. We cannot assure you that our business will not be affected by inflation in the future. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Nature of Operations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. 40 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales, costs and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and other related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including, but not limited to, those related to revenue recognition, uncollectible receivables, inventory, valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, intangible and other long-lived assets and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying values of our assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and we include any revisions to our estimates in our results for the period in which the actual amounts become known. We believe the critical accounting policies described below affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our historical consolidated financial condition and results of operations: Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue from product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts and return allowances, when the following five revenue recognition criteria are met: a contract has been identified, separate performance obligations are identified, the transaction price is determined, the transaction price is allocated to separate performance obligations and revenue is recognized upon satisfying each performance obligation. The Company transfers the risk of loss or damage upon shipment, therefore, revenue from product sales is recognized when it is shipped to the customer. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue by the Companys best estimate of expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience. Revenue from sales of advertising is recorded when performance requirements of the related advertising program agreement are met. We evaluated the criteria of ASC 606 - Revenue Recognition Principal Agent Considerations in determining whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when the Company is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide a specified good or service, the Company is subject to inventory risk before the good or service has been transferred to a customer and the Company has discretion in establishing the price, revenue is recorded at gross. Payments received prior to the delivery of goods to customers are recorded as deferred revenue. We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off of current purchases and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the sales price of the related transaction. Sales discounts are recorded in the period in which the related sale is recognized. Sales return allowances are estimated based on historical amounts and are recorded upon recognizing the related sales. Credits are issued to customers for returned products. Inventory. Inventory consists of finished goods available-for-sale. We purchase inventory from suppliers both domestically and internationally, primarily in Taiwan and China. We believe that our products are generally available from more than one supplier, and we maintain multiple sources for many of our products, both internationally and domestically. We offer a broad line of auto parts for automobiles, trucks, motorcycles and recreational vehicles from model years 1965 to 2019. Because of the continued demand for our products, we primarily purchase products in bulk quantities to take advantage of quantity discounts and to ensure inventory availability. 41 Table of Contents Inventory is accounted for using the first-in first-out (FIFO) method and valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. During this valuation, we are required to make judgments about expected disposition of inventory, generally, through sales, returns to product vendors, or liquidations of obsolete or scrap products, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category based on currently-available information. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those anticipated by management, additional write-down of the value of our inventory may be required. Website and Software Development Costs. We capitalize certain costs associated with software developed for internal use according to ASC Topic 35040 Intangibles Goodwill and Other Internal-Use Software (ASC 35040), and ASC Topic 35050 Intangibles Goodwill and Other Website Development Costs (ASC 35050). Under these provisions, we capitalize costs associated with website development and software developed for internal use when both the preliminary project design and testing stage are completed and management has authorized further funding for the project, which it deems probable of completion and to be used for the function intended. Capitalized costs include amounts directly related to website development and software development such as payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with, and who devote time to, the internal-use software project. Capitalization of these costs ceases when the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. These amounts are amortized on a straight-line basis over two to three years once the software is placed into service. Income Taxes. The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740 - Income Taxes (ASC 740). Under ASC 740, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. When appropriate, a valuation reserve is established to reduce deferred tax assets, which include tax credits and loss carryforwards, to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The ability to realize deferred tax assets depends on the ability to generate sufficient taxable income within the carryforward periods provided for in the tax law for each applicable tax jurisdiction. We consider the following possible sources of taxable income when assessing the realization of our deferred tax assets: Future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences; Future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; T ax-planning strategies. The assessment regarding whether a valuation allowance is required or should be adjusted also considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency and severity of recent losses, forecasts of future profitability, the duration of statutory carryforward periods, our experience with tax attributes expiring unused and tax planning alternatives. In making such judgments, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. Concluding that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is significant negative evidence that is objective and verifiable, such as cumulative losses in recent years. We utilized a three-year analysis of actual results as the primary measure of cumulative losses in recent years. In addition, the near- and medium-term financial outlook is considered when assessing the need for a valuation allowance. The valuation of deferred tax assets requires judgment and assessment of the future tax consequences of events that have been recorded in the financial statements or in the tax returns, and our future profitability represents our best estimate of those future events. Changes in our current estimates, due to unanticipated events or otherwise, could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to 42 Table of Contents measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. The Companys policy is to record interest and penalties as income tax expense. Share-Based Compensation. We account for share-based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic 718 Compensation Stock Compensation (ASC 718). ASC 718 requires that all share-based compensation to employees, including grants of employee stock options, be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values. Under this standard, the fair value of each share-based payment award is estimated on the date of grant using an option pricing model that meets certain requirements. We currently use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of our share-based payment awards. The Black-Scholes valuation models require extensive use of accounting judgment and financial estimates, including estimates of the expected term participants will retain their vested stock options before exercising them, the estimated volatility of our common stock price over the expected term and the number of options that will be forfeited prior to the completion of their vesting requirements. Application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different estimates of the fair value of share-based compensation and, consequently, the related amount of share-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Operations could have been significantly different than the amounts recorded. The Company has incorporated its own historical volatility into the grant-date fair value calculations. The Companys historical volatility was not materially different than the estimates applied to past award fair value calculations. The expected term of an award is based on combining historical exercise data with expected weighted time outstanding. Expected weighted time outstanding is calculated by assuming the settlement of outstanding awards is at the midpoint between the remaining weighted average vesting date and the expiration date. The Company accounts for equity instruments issued in exchange for the receipt of services from non-employee directors in accordance with the provisions of ASC 718. The Company accounts for equity instruments issued in exchange for the receipt of goods or services from other than employees in accordance with ASC 50550 - Equity-Based Payments to Non-Employees (ASC 505-50). Costs are measured at the estimated fair market value of the consideration received or the estimated fair value of the equity instruments issued, whichever is more reliably measurable. The value of equity instruments issued for consideration other than employee services is determined on the earlier of a performance commitment or completion of performance by the provider of goods or services. Equity instruments awarded to non-employees are periodically re-measured as the underlying awards vest unless the instruments are fully vested, immediately exercisable and non-forfeitable on the date of grant. Forfeitures are accounted for as they occur.