ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data, Or As Otherwise Noted) Cautionary Statement You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in Part I, Item 1 of this report. Certain statements in this report, including statements regarding our business strategies, operations, financial condition, and prospects are forward-looking statements. Use of the words anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would, will likely continue, will likely result and similar expressions that contemplate future events may identify forward-looking statements. The information contained in this section is not a complete description of our business or the risks associated with an investment in our common stock. We urge you to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in this report and in our other reports filed with the SEC, which are available on the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov . The section entitled Risk Factors set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this report, and similar discussions in our other SEC filings, describe some of the important factors, risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these or any other forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and reflect managements opinions only as of the date thereof. We do not assume any obligation to revise or update forward-looking statements. Finally, our historic results should not be viewed as indicative of future performance. Overview We are a leading online provider of aftermarket auto parts, including collision parts, engine parts, and performance parts and accessories. Our user-friendly websites provide customers with a broad selection of SKUs, with detailed product descriptions and photographs. Our proprietary product database maps our SKUs to product applications based on vehicle makes, models and years. We principally sell our products to individual consumers through our network of websites and online marketplaces. Our flagship consumer websites are located at www.carparts.com and www.jcwhitney.com , and our corporate website is located at www.usautoparts.com . The inclusion of our website addresses in this report does not include or incorporate by reference into this report any information on our websites. We believe our strategy of disintermediating the traditional auto parts supply chain and selling products directly to customers over the Internet allows us to efficiently deliver products to our customers. Industry-wide trends that support our strategy include: 1. Number of SKUs required to serve the market. The number of automotive SKUs has grown dramatically over the last several years. In todays market, unless the consumer is driving a high volume produced vehicle and needs a simple maintenance item, the part they need is not typically on the shelf at a brick-and-mortar store. We believe our user-friendly websites provide customers with a favorable alternative to the brick-and-mortar shopping experience by offering a comprehensive selection of approximately 800,000 SKUs with detailed product descriptions, attributes and photographs combined with the flexibility of fulfilling orders using both drop-ship and stock-and-ship methods. 2. U.S. vehicle fleet expanding and aging. The average age of U.S. light vehicles, an indicator of auto parts demand, remained near record-highs at 11.8 years during 2019, according to the U.S. Auto Care Association. In addition, IHS, a market analytics firm, found that the total number of light vehicles in operation in the U.S. has increased to record levels, and should continue to rise through 2020. We believe an increasing vehicle base and rising average age of vehicles will have a positive impact on overall aftermarket parts demand because older vehicles generally require more repairs. In many cases we believe these older vehicles are driven by do-it-yourself ("DIY") car owners who are more likely to handle any necessary repairs themselves rather than taking their car to the professional repair shop. 3. Growth of online sales. The U.S. Auto Care Association estimated that overall revenue from online sales of auto parts and accessories would reach almost $20 billion by 2022. Improved product availability, lower prices and consumers growing comfort with digital platforms are driving the shift to online sales. We believe that 14 Table of Contents we are well positioned for the shift to online sales due to our history of being a leading source for aftermarket automotive parts through online marketplaces and our network of websites. Impact of COVID-19 The challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic on the United States and global economy increased significantly as the first quarter progressed in March. Since the onset of the pandemic, our top priority remains the health and safety of our employees as most have been working from home, in addition to ensuring our customers continue receiving our high-quality, personalized service. Our distribution centers, deemed an essential service, remain operational while our employees onsite adhere to, and follow, the COVID-19 safety guidelines recommended from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). COVID-19 had only minimal disruptions on our business as our first quarter sales were only impacted in mid to late March during the initial stages of COVID-19 stay-at-home orders. The ultimate extent of the effects from the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company, our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows will be dependent on evolving developments which are uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. See the Risk Factors section set forth in Part II, Item 1A for further discussion of risks related to COVID-19. Executive Summary For the first quarter of 2020, the Companys operations generated net sales of $87,818, compared with $74,739 for the first quarter of 2019, representing an increase of 17.5%. Our operations incurred a net loss of $978 for the first quarter of 2020 compared to a net loss of $3,581 for the first quarter of 2019. Our operations generated a net loss before interest expense, net, income tax provision (benefit), depreciation and amortization expense, amortization of intangible assets, plus share-based compensation expense, and in 2019, costs related to our customs issues and employee transition costs (Adjusted EBITDA) of $4,303 in the first quarter of 2020 compared to negative $98 in the first quarter of 2019. Adjusted EBITDA, which is not a Generally Accepted Accounting Principle (GAAP) measure. See the section below titled Non-GAAP measures for information regarding our use of Adjusted EBTIDA and a reconciliation from net loss. Net sales increased in first quarter of 2020 compared to the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to an increase in our online sales offset by a decrease in our offline sales. Our online sales, which include our e-commerce, online marketplace sales channels and online advertising, contributed 92.9% of total net sales and our offline sales, which consist of our Kool-Vue and wholesale operations, contributed 7.1% of total net sales. Our online sales increased by $13,857, or 20.5%, to $81,596 compared to the same period last year due to an increase in e-commerce sales primarily driven by our growth in private label sales. Our offline sales decreased by $778, or 11.1%, to $6,222 compared to the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in sales from our wholesale operations. Gross profit increased by 47.9% to $29,779. The increase in gross profit is due to strong growth in private label sales, as well as an improved inventory mix. Total expenses, which primarily consisted of cost of sales and operating expense, increased in the first quarter of 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. The changes in both cost of sales and operating expense are described in further detail under Results of Operations below. We continue to pursue the following strategies in order to improve our operating performance: We have returned to positive e-commerce growth by continuing to focus on making the auto parts purchasing process as easy and seamless as possible. We plan to continue to provide unique catalog content and provide better content on our websites with the goal of improving our ranking on the search results. We continue to work to improve the website purchase experience for our customers by (1) helping our customers find the parts they want to buy by reducing failed searches and increasing user purchase confidence; (2) implementing guided navigation and custom buying experiences specific to strategic part names; (3) increasing order size across our sites through improved recommendation engines; (4) improving our site speed; and (5) creating a frictionless checkout experience for our customers. In addition, we intend to continue to improve our mobile enabled websites to take advantage of shifting consumer behaviors. 15 Table of Contents These efforts are intended to increase the number of repeat purchases, as well as contribute to our sales growth. We continue to work towards becoming one of the preferred low price options in the market for aftermarket auto parts and accessories. We also continue to offer lower prices by increasing foreign sourced private label products as they are generally less expensive and we believe provide better value for the consumer. We believe our product offering will grow our sales and improve our margins. We continue to increase product selection by being the first to market with many new SKUs. We currently have over 60,000 private label SKUs and over 740,000 branded SKUs in our product selection. We will continue to seek to add new categories and expand our existing specialty categories. We believe continued product expansion will increase the total number of orders and contribute to our sales growth. Additionally, we plan to continue to maintain certain in-stock inventory throughout the year to provide consistent service levels and improve customer experience. We continue to implement cost saving measures. Non-GAAP measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. We provide EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures. EBITDA consists of net loss before (a) interest expense, net; (b) income tax provision (benefit); (c) depreciation and amortization expense; and (d) amortization of intangible assets; while Adjusted EBITDA consists of EBITDA before share-based compensation expense, and in 2019, costs related to our customs issues and employee transition costs. The Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide important supplemental information to management and investors. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of the Companys operations that, when viewed with the GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting the Companys business and results of operations. Management uses Adjusted EBITDA as one measure of the Companys operating performance because it assists in comparing the Companys operating performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of stock compensation expense and the costs associated with the customs issue, as well as other items that we do not believe are representative of our ongoing operating performance. Internally, this non-GAAP is also used by management for planning purposes, including the preparation of internal budgets; for allocating resources to enhance financial performance; and for evaluating the effectiveness of operational strategies. The Company also believes that analysts and investors use Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to evaluate the ongoing operations of companies in our industry. This non-GAAP financial measure is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Management strongly encourages investors to review the Companys consolidated financial statements in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. In addition, the Company expects to continue to incur expenses similar to the non-GAAP adjustments described above, and exclusion of these items from the Companys non-GAAP measures should not be construed as an inference that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. 16 Table of Contents The table below reconciles net loss from operations to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in thousands): Thirteen Weeks Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 Net loss $ (978) $ (3,581) Depreciation & amortization 1,898 1,529 Amortization of intangible assets 25 25 Interest expense, net 659 407 Taxes 36 (280) EBITDA $ 1,640 $ (1,900) Stock compensation expense $ 2,663 $ 550 Employee transition costs (1) 986 Customs costs (2) 266 Adjusted EBITDA $ 4,303 $ (98) (1) We incurred employee transition costs related to the transition of our executive management team including severance, recruiting, hiring bonus and relocation costs. (2) We incurred port and carrier fees and legal costs associated with our customs related issues. Refer to Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected statement of operations data for the periods indicated, expressed as a percentage of net sales: Thirteen Weeks Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 66.1 73.1 Gross profit 33.9 26.9 Operating expense 34.3 31.5 Loss from operations (0.5) (4.6) Other income (expense): Other income, net 0.1 Interest expense (0.8) (0.6) Total other expense, net (0.7) (0.6) Loss before income taxes (1.1) (5.2) Income tax provision (benefit) 0.0 (0.4) Net loss (1.1) % (4.8) % Thirteen Weeks Ended March 28, 2020 Compared to the Thirteen Weeks Ended March 30, 2019 Net Sales and Gross Margin Thirteen Weeks Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 (in thousands) Net sales $ 87,818 $ 74,739 Cost of sales 58,039 54,610 Gross profit $ 29,779 $ 20,129 Gross margin 33.9 % 26.9 % Net sales increased $13,079, or 17.5%, for the first quarter of 2020 compared to the first quarter of 2019. Our net sales consisted of online sales, representing 92.9% of the total for the first quarter of 2020 (compared to 90.6% in the first quarter of 2019), and offline sales, representing 7.1% of the total for the first quarter of 2020 (compared to 9.4% in the first quarter of 2019). The net sales increase was due to an increase in online sales of $13,857, or 20.5%, offset by a 17 Table of Contents decrease in offline sales of $778, or 11.1%. Our online sales channels increase was driven by an increase in e-commerce sales primarily driven by our growth in private label sales. The offline sales channel decreased primarily due to decreased sales to our wholesale customers. Gross profit increased $9,650 or 47.9%, compared to the first quarter of 2019. Gross margin increased 700 basis points to 33.9% in the first quarter of 2020 compared to 26.9% in the first quarter of 2019 . The increase in gross margin was due to strong growth in private label sales, as well as an improved inventory mix. Operating Expense Thirteen Weeks Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 (in thousands) Operating expense $ 30,132 $ 23,575 Percent of net sales 34.3 % 31.5 % Operating expense increased $6,557, or 27.8%, for the first quarter of 2020 compared to the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to an increase in fulfillment expense as well as an increase in marketing expense. The increase in fulfillment expense was primarily due to a higher number of fulfilled orders as well as additional expenses incurred from our Las Vegas, Nevada distribution center that opened in the third quarter of 2019. The increase in marketing expense was primarily due to an increase in marketing spend. Total Other Expense, Net Thirteen Weeks Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 (in thousands) Other expense, net $ (589) $ (415) Percent of net sales (0.7) % (0.6) % Total other expense, net, increased $174, or 41.9%, for the first quarter of 2020 compared to the first quarter of 2019 primarily due to an increase in interest expense attributable to a higher letters of credit balance. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) Thirteen Weeks Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 (in thousands) Income tax provision (benefit) $ 36 $ (280) Percent of net sales 0.0 % (0.4) % For the thirteen weeks ended March 28, 2020, the effective tax rate for the Companys operations was (3.8)%. The effective tax rate for the thirteen weeks ended March 28, 2020 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes, share-based compensation that is either not deductible for tax purposes or for which the tax deductible amount is different than the financial reporting amount, and a change in the valuation allowance that offset the tax benefit of the current period pre-tax loss. For the thirteen weeks ended March 30, 2019, the effective tax rate for the Companys operations was 7.3%. The effective tax rate for the thirteen weeks ended March 30, 2019 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes and share-based compensation that is either non-deductible for tax purposes or for which the tax deductible amount is different than the financial reporting amount. The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740 - Income Taxes (ASC 740). Under the provisions of ASC 740, management is required to evaluate whether a valuation allowance should be established against its deferred tax assets. We currently have a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. As of each reporting date, the Companys management considers new evidence, both positive and negative, that could impact managements view with regard to future realization of deferred tax assets. For the thirteen weeks ended March 28, 2020, there was no material change from fiscal year ended 2019 in the amount of the Company's deferred tax assets that are more likely than not to be realized in future years. 18 Table of Contents On March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The CARES Act contains numerous income tax provisions, such as relaxing limitations on the deductibility of interest and the use of net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. The CARES Act allows NOLs incurred in 2018, 2019, and 2020 to be carried back to each of the five preceding taxable years to generate a refund of previously paid income taxes. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the CARES Act, but at present does not expect that the NOL carryback provision of the CARES Act would result in a cash benefit due to the existence of previously incurred losses. Foreign Currency The impact of foreign currency is related to our offshore operations in the Philippines and sales of our products in Canada and was not material to our operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity During the thirteen weeks ended March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, we primarily funded our operations with cash and cash equivalents generated from operations as well as through borrowing under our credit facility. We had cash and cash equivalents of $14,148 as of March 28, 2020, representing a $11,875 increase from $2,273 of cash as of December 28, 2019. The cash increase was primarily the result of the increase in net cash provided by operating activities. Based on our current operating plan, and despite the current uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations and available funds under our credit facility will be sufficient to finance our operations through at least the next twelve months (see Debt and Available Borrowing Resources and Funding Requirements below). As of March 28, 2020, our credit facility provided for a revolving commitment of up to $30,000 subject to a borrowing base derived from certain of our receivables, inventory and property and equipment (see Debt and Available Borrowing Resources below). Working Capital As of March 28, 2020 and December 28, 2019, our working capital was $4,036 and $2,427, respectively. The historical seasonality in our business during the year can cause cash and cash equivalents, inventory and accounts payable to fluctuate, resulting in changes in our working capital. Cash Flows The following table summarizes the key cash flow metrics from our consolidated statements of cash flows for the thirteen weeks ended March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019 (in thousands): Thirteen Weeks Ended March 28, 2020 March 30, 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 14,299 $ 4,875 Net cash used in investing activities (2,050) (1,587) Net cash used in financing activities (368) (477) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (6) (7) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 11,875 $ 2,804 19 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the thirteen weeks ended March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019 was $14,299 and $4,875, respectively. The increase was primarily due to the higher balance of accounts payable because of timing of payments and temporary, favorable payment terms granted by our top vendors, as well as a lower net loss adjusted for non-cash charges. Investing Activities For the thirteen weeks ended March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, net cash used in investing activities was the result of additions to property and equipment ($2,050 and $1,587, respectively), which are mainly related to capitalized website and software development costs. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $368 and $477, respectively, for the thirteen weeks ended March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019. The increase was primarily due to payments of our notes payable associated with the development of the Las Vegas, Nevada distribution center. Debt and Available Borrowing Resources Total debt was $9,219 as of March 28, 2020 compared to $11,056 as of December 28, 2019 and primarily consists of right-of-use obligations - finance. During the first quarter of 2020, the Company paid off the notes payable associated with the development of the Las Vegas, Nevada distribution center. Therefore, the notes payable balance was $0 as of March 28, 2020. The Company maintains an asset-based revolving credit facility ("Credit Facility") that provides for, among other things, a revolving commitment in an aggregate principal amount of up to $30,000, which is subject to a borrowing base derived from certain receivables, inventory and property and equipment. Our Credit Facility also provides for an option to increase the aggregate principal amount from $30,000 to $40,000 subject to lender approval. As of March 28, 2020, our outstanding revolving loan balance was $0. The outstanding letters of credit balance as of March 28, 2020 was $21,768, of which $18,856 was utilized and included in accounts payable in our consolidated balance sheet. We use letters of credit in the ordinary course of business to satisfy certain vendor obligations. Loans drawn under the Credit Facility bear interest at a per annum rate equal to either (a) LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 1.75%, or (b) an alternate prime base rate subject to an increase or reduction by up to 0.25% per annum based on the Companys fixed charge coverage ratio. As of March 28, 2020, the Companys LIBOR based interest rate was 2.75% (on $0 principal) and the Companys prime based rate was 3.50% (on $0 principal). A commitment fee, based upon undrawn availability under the Credit Facility bearing interest at a rate of 0.25% per annum, is payable monthly. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, cash receipts are deposited into a lock-box, which are at the Companys discretion unless the cash dominion period is in effect, during which cash receipts will be used to reduce amounts owing under the Credit Agreement. The cash dominion period is triggered in an event of default or if excess availability is less than the $3,600 for three consecutive business days, and will continue until, during the preceding 45 consecutive days, no event of default existed and excess availability has been greater than $3,600 at all times (with the trigger subject to adjustment based on the Companys revolving commitment). In addition, in the event that excess availability, as defined under the Credit Agreement, is less than $3,000 the Company shall be required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0 to 1.0. The Companys excess availability was $4,676 as of March 28, 2020. The Credit Facility matures on December 16, 2022. Our Credit Agreement requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants which could limit our ability to react to market conditions or satisfy extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise restrict our financing and operations. If we are unable to satisfy the financial covenants and tests at any time, we may as a result cease being able to borrow under the Credit Facility or be required to immediately repay loans under the Credit Facility, and our liquidity and capital resources and ability to operate our business could be severely impacted, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In those events, we may need to sell assets or seek additional equity or additional debt financing or attempt to modify our existing Credit Agreement. There can be no assurance that we would be able to raise such additional financing or engage in such asset sales on acceptable terms, or at all, or that we would be able to modify our existing Credit Agreement. 20 Table of Contents Funding Requirements Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations and available debt financing will be sufficient to finance our operational cash needs through at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements may, however, vary materially from those now planned or anticipated. Changes in our operating plans, lower than anticipated net sales or gross margins, increased expenses, continued or worsened economic conditions, worsening operating performance by us, or other events, including those described in Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A may force us to sell assets or seek additional debt or equity financings in the future, including the issuance of additional common stock under a registration statement. As such, there can be no assurance that we would be able to raise such additional financing or engage in asset sales on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to raise adequate additional financing or proceeds from asset sales, we will need to defer, reduce or eliminate significant planned expenditures, restructure or significantly curtail our operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements. Seasonality We believe our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. We have historically experienced higher sales of body parts in winter months when inclement weather and hazardous road conditions typically result in more automobile collisions. Engine parts and performance parts and accessories have historically experienced higher sales in the summer months when consumers have more time to undertake elective projects to maintain and enhance the performance of their automobiles and the warmer weather during that time is conducive for such projects. We expect the historical seasonality trends to continue, and such trends may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations in subsequent periods. Inflation Inflation has not had a material impact upon our operating results, and we do not expect it to have such an impact in the near future. We cannot assure you that our business will not be affected by inflation in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales, costs and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and other related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including, but not limited to, those related to revenue recognition, uncollectible receivables, inventory, valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, intangible and other long-lived assets and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying values of our assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and we include any revisions to our estimates in our results for the period in which the actual amounts become known. There were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies during the thirteen weeks ended March 28, 2020. We believe our critical accounting policies affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our historical consolidated financial condition and results of operations ( for further detail refer to our Annual Report on Form 10K that we filed with the SEC on March 10, 2020) : Revenue Recognition; Inventory; Website and Software Development Costs; Income Taxes; and 21 Table of Contents Share-Based Compensation. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Nature of Operations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), included above in Part I, Item 1 of this report.