ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Dollar Amounts in Thousands, Except Per Share Data, or as Otherwise Noted) Cautionary Statement You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto contained in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Certain statements in this report, including statements regarding our business strategies, operations, financial condition, and prospects are forward-looking statements. Use of the words anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would, will likely continue, will likely result and similar expressions that contemplate future events may identify forward-looking statements. The information contained in this section is not a complete description of our business or the risks associated with an investment in our common stock. We urge you to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in this report and in our other reports filed with the SEC, which are available on the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov. The section entitled Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this report, and similar discussions in our other SEC filings, describe some of the important factors, risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these or any other forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and reflect managements opinions only as of the date thereof. We do not assume any obligation to revise or update forward-looking statements. Finally, our historic results should not be viewed as indicative of future performance. 29 Table of Contents Overview We are a leading online provider of aftermarket auto parts, including replacement parts, hard parts, and performance parts and accessories. Our proprietary product database maps our SKUs to product applications based on vehicle makes, models and years. We principally sell our products to individual consumers through our flagship website at www.carparts.com and online marketplaces. Our corporate website is located at www.carparts.com /investor . The inclusion of our website addresses in this report does not include or incorporate by reference into this report any information on our websites. We believe by disintermediating the traditional auto parts supply chain and selling products directly to customers online allows us to efficiently deliver products to our customers. Our mission is changing the way people repair their cars and getting them back on the road, and our strategy consists of four areas of focus: outstanding customer service, operational excellence, financial discipline, and innovation. Industry-wide trends that support our strategy and future growth include: 1. Number of SKUs required to serve the market. The number of automotive SKUs has grown dramatically over the last several years. In todays market, unless the consumer is driving a high volume produced vehicle and needs a simple maintenance item, the part they need is not typically on the shelf at a brick-and-mortar store. We believe our user-friendly flagship website provides customers with a favorable alternative to the brick-and-mortar shopping experience by offering a comprehensive selection of approximately 913,000 SKUs with detailed product descriptions, attributes and photographs combined with the flexibility of fulfilling orders using both drop-ship and stock-and-ship methods. 2. U.S. vehicle fleet expanding and aging. The average age of U.S. light vehicles, an indicator of auto parts demand, reached a new record-high of 12.2 years in 2022, according to the U.S. Auto Care Association. We believe an increasing vehicle base and rising average age of vehicles will have a positive impact on overall aftermarket parts demand because older vehicles generally require more repairs. In many cases we believe these older vehicles are driven by DIY car owners who are more likely to handle any necessary repairs themselves rather than taking their car to the professional repair shop. 3. Growth of online sales. The U.S. Auto Care Association estimated that overall revenue from online sales of auto parts and accessories would reach over $21 billion by 2025. Improved product availability, lower prices and consumers growing comfort with digital platforms are driving the shift to online sales. We believe that we are well positioned for the shift to online sales due to being a leading source for aftermarket automotive parts through our flagship website and online marketplaces. Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our performance and future success depend on a number of factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges, including those discussed below and in the Risk Factors section set forth in Part I, Item 1A . Acquiring New Customers We believe there is substantial opportunity to continue acquiring new customers. The automotive aftermarket parts industry is still very underpenetrated online compared to other verticals and industries. We believe consumers are becoming more comfortable buying auto parts online and we anticipate continued growth acceleration. Our ability to attract and acquire new customers will depend on a number of factors, including the effectiveness and pricing of our products, increasing and optimizing our product catalog, technological improvements to our website, and the effectiveness of our marketing efforts. However, with the right tools and solutions, we continue to see this as a great opportunity to disrupt the automotive aftermarket parts industry. 30 Table of Contents Supply Chain and Shipping Optimization Over the last three years, we have added new distribution centers in order to shorten the customer order delivery time to meet our customers evolving delivery expectations and in turn optimizing our outbound freight costs. Our ability to optimize our supply chain sourcing will continue to be key in managing costs of importing parts from overseas. While we seek to continue to strengthen and optimize our supply chain for both inbound and outbound shipping, we may incur increased freight expenses from the global supply chain volatility due to seasonal economic conditions and potentially heightened inflation. Although we do not believe that inflation had a material direct effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition to date, a significant increase in the rate of inflation may have a significant adverse effect on in the future our business, results of operations or financial condition. Executive Summary For fiscal year 2022, the Companys operations generated net sales of $661,604, compared to $582,440 for fiscal year 2021, representing an increase of 13.6%. The Company incurred a net loss of $951 for fiscal year 2022 compared to a net loss of $10,339 for fiscal year 2021. The Companys net loss before interest expense, net, income tax provision, depreciation and amortization expense, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation expense ("Adjusted EBITDA"), was $26,113 in fiscal year 2022 compared to $16,791 in fiscal year 2021. Refer to the section below titled Non-GAAP measures for information regarding our use of Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation from net loss. Net sales increased in fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021 primarily driven by continued strong demand. Gross profit increased by 17.0% to $230,890. Gross margin increased 100 basis points to 34.9% in fiscal year 2022 compared to 33.9% in fiscal year 2021. The increase in gross margin was primarily driven by favorable freight costs in 2022. Total expenses, which primarily consisted of cost of sales and operating expense, increased in fiscal year 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. The components of cost of sales and operating costs are described in further detail under Components of Results of Operations below. Non-GAAP measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other provisions of the Exchange Act, as amended, define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. We provide EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP financial measures. EBITDA consists of net loss before (a) interest expense, net; (b) income tax provision; (c) depreciation and amortization expense; and (d) amortization of intangible assets; while Adjusted EBITDA consists of EBITDA before share-based compensation expense. The Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide important supplemental information to management and investors. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of the Companys operations that, when viewed with the GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting the Companys business and results of operations. Management uses Adjusted EBITDA as one measure of the Companys operating performance because it assists in comparing the Companys operating performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of stock compensation expense, as well as other items that we do not believe are representative of our ongoing operating performance. Internally, this non-GAAP measure is also used by management for planning purposes, including the preparation of internal budgets; for allocating resources to enhance financial performance; and for evaluating the effectiveness of operational strategies. The Company also believes that analysts and investors use Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to evaluate the ongoing operations of companies in our industry. This non-GAAP financial measure is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Management strongly 31 Table of Contents encourages investors to review the Companys consolidated financial statements in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. In addition, the Company expects to continue to incur expenses similar to the non-GAAP adjustments described above, and exclusion of these items from the Companys non-GAAP measures should not be construed as an inference that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. The table below reconciles net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022 January 1, 2022 January 2, 2021 Net loss $ (951) (10,339) (1,513) Depreciation & amortization 13,607 9,895 7,657 Amortization of intangible assets 108 110 102 Interest expense, net 1,421 1,089 1,694 Taxes 632 351 307 EBITDA $ 14,817 $ 1,106 $ 8,247 Stock compensation expense $ 11,296 $ 15,685 $ 7,778 Adjusted EBITDA $ 26,113 $ 16,791 $ 16,025 Components of Results of Operations Net Sales. Online and offline sales represent two different sales channels for our products. Online is our primary sales channel as we generate net sales primarily from e-commerce sales of auto parts to individual consumers through our flagship website www.carparts.com , and online marketplaces. Online marketplaces consist primarily of sales of our products on online marketplace websites, where we sell through online storefronts that we maintain on third-party owned websites such as eBay and Amazon. Our offline sales channel represents our distribution of products directly to commercial customers by selling auto parts to collision repair shops. Our offline sales channel also includes both stock ship distribution as well as drop ship programs for automotive warehouse distributors and other online resellers. The product mix includes the majority of our house brands stock ship parts, which include the replacement collision parts and our Kool-Vue mirror line. Cost of Sales. Cost of sales consists of the direct costs associated with procuring parts from suppliers and delivering products to customers. These costs include direct product costs, outbound freight and shipping costs, warehouse supplies and warranty costs, partially offset by purchase discounts. Depreciation and amortization expenses are excluded from cost of sales and included in operating expense. Operating Expense. Operating expense consists of marketing, general and administrative, fulfillment, and technology expense. We also include share-based compensation expense in the applicable operating expense category based on the respective equity award recipients function. Marketing expense consists of online advertising spend, television advertising, internet commerce facilitator fees and other advertising costs, as well as payroll and related expenses associated with our customer service and marketing personnel. General and administrative expense consists primarily of administrative payroll and related expenses, merchant processing fees, legal and professional fees and other administrative costs. Fulfillment expense consists primarily of payroll and related costs associated with our warehouse employees and our purchasing group, facilities rent, building maintenance, depreciation and other costs associated with inventory management and our wholesale operations. Technology expense consists primarily of payroll and related expenses of our information technology personnel, the cost of hosting our servers, communications expenses and internet connectivity costs, computer support and software development amortization expense. Marketing expense, general and administrative expense, and fulfillment expense also includes depreciation and amortization expense. Other Income, Net. Other income, net primarily consists of miscellaneous income or expense and interest income comprised primarily of interest income on investments. 32 Table of Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense on our outstanding revolving loan and letters of credit balances, deferred financing cost amortization and finance lease interest. Presentation of Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources The following discussion and analysis of our Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources includes a comparison of fiscal year 2022 to fiscal year 2021. A similar discussion and analysis which compares fiscal year 2021 to fiscal year 2020 may be found in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our annual report filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) under the Exchange Act on March 2, 2022. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the fiscal years presented, expressed as a percentage of net sales: Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022 January 1, 2022 January 2, 2021 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 65.1 66.1 65.0 Gross profit 34.9 33.9 35.0 Operating expense 34.8 35.4 34.9 Income (loss) from operations 0.2 (1.5) 0.1 Other income (expense): Other income, net 0.1 0.0 0.0 Interest expense (0.2) (0.2) (0.3) Total other expense, net (0.1) (0.2) (0.3) Loss before income taxes (0.0) (1.7) (0.2) Income tax provision 0.1 0.1 0.1 Net loss (0.1) % (1.8) % (0.3) % Fifty-Two Weeks Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to the Fifty-Two Weeks Ended January 1, 2022 Net Sales and Gross Margin Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022 January 1, 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Net sales $ 661,604 $ 582,440 $ 79,164 13.6 % Cost of sales 430,714 385,157 45,557 11.8 % Gross profit $ 230,890 $ 197,283 $ 33,607 17.0 % Gross margin 34.9 % 33.9 % 1.0 % Net sales increased $79,164 for fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021 primarily driven by continued strong demand. Gross profit increased $33,607, or 17.0%, in fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021. Gross margin increased 100 basis points to 34.9% in fiscal year 2022 compared to 33.9% in fiscal year 2021. The increase in gross margin was primarily driven by favorable freight costs in 2022. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expense Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022 January 1, 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Operating expense $ 230,239 $ 206,394 $ 23,845 11.6 % Percent of net sales 34.8 % 35.4 % (0.6) % Operating expense increased $23,845, or 11.6%, for fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021 primarily due to an increase in fulfillment expense. The increase in fulfillment expense was primarily due to a higher number of inventory receipts and fulfilled orders processed as well as additional expenses related to investments in our business. Total Other Expense, Net Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022 January 1, 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Other expense, net $ (970) $ (877) $ (93) 10.6 % Percent of net sales (0.1) % (0.2) % 0.1 % Total other expense, net increased $93, or 10.6%, for fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021 primarily due to an increase in interest expense attributable to an increase in our finance leases. Income Tax Provision Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022 January 1, 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Income tax provision $ 632 $ 351 $ 281 80.1 % Percent of net sales 0.1 % 0.1 % % The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740 - Income Taxes (ASC 740). Under the provisions of ASC 740, management is required to evaluate whether a valuation allowance should be established against its deferred tax assets based on the consideration of all available evidence using a more likely than not standard. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon taxable income in prior carryback years, estimates of future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and reversal of existing taxable temporary differences. ASC 740 provides that forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years or losses expected in early future years. As of December 31, 2022, due to cumulative losses in recent years, the Company maintained a valuation allowance in the amount of $37,565 against deferred tax assets that were not more likely than not to be realized. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had no material unrecognized tax benefits, interest or penalties related to federal and state income tax matters. As of December 31, 2022, the Companys federal and state NOL carryforwards were $103,323 and $80,280, respectively. Federal NOL carryforwards of $1,026 were acquired in the acquisition of WAG which are subject to Section 382 of the Code and limited to an annual usage limitation of $135. The Companys federal NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2029, while state NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity During the fifty-two weeks ended December 31, 2022, we primarily funded our operations with cash and cash equivalents generated from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility. We had cash and cash equivalents of $18,767 as of December 31, 2022, representing a $623 increase from $18,144 of cash and cash equivalents as of January 1, 2022. Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, 34 Table of Contents investments, cash flows from operations and available funds under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to finance our operations through at least the next twelve months (see Debt and Available Borrowing Resources and Funding Requirements below). As of December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022, our working capital was $79,843 and $71,808, respectively. Cash Flows Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022 January 1, 2022 January 2, 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 15,368 $ (6,988) $ (19,068) Net cash used in investing activities (12,517) (11,551) (9,758) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (2,153) 902 62,361 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (75) (21) (6) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 623 $ (17,658) $ 33,529 Operating Activities Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022 was $15,368 and ($6,988), respectively. The increase in net cash provided by (used in) operating activities was primarily due to the decrease in net loss and a lower net cash outflow from the change in working capital. Investing Activities For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022, net cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of additions to property and equipment ($12,585 and $11,578, respectively), which are mainly related to capitalized website and software development costs. Financing Activities Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities was ($2,153) and $902 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and January 1, 2022, respectively. The decrease was primarily attributable to the decrease in proceeds from exercises of stock options and the increase in payments on finance leases in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. Debt and Available Borrowing Resources Total debt was $20,669 as of December 31, 2022 compared to $15,821 as of January 1, 2022 and primarily consists of right-of-use obligations-finance. The Company maintains an asset-based revolving Credit Facility that provides for, among other things, a revolving commitment, which is subject to a borrowing base derived from certain receivables, inventory and property and equipment. On June 17, 2022, the Company and JPMorgan entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended, the Credit Agreement) amending and restating in its entirety the original Credit Agreement dated April 26, 2012. As amended, the Credit Agreement provides for the revolving commitment in an aggregate principal amount of up to $75,000 (formerly $30,000) and allows for an uncommitted ability to increase the aggregate principal amount by an additional $75,000 to $150,000 (formerly $40,000 maximum), subject to certain terms and conditions. The Credit Facility matures on June 17, 2027. As of December 31, 2022, our outstanding revolving loan balance was $0. The outstanding standby letters of credit balance as of December 31, 2022 was $620, and we had $0 of our trade letters of credit outstanding in accounts payable in our consolidated balance sheet. We used the trade letters of credit in the ordinary course of business to satisfy certain vendor obligations. 35 Table of Contents Loans drawn under the Credit Facility bear interest at a per annum rate equal to either (a) SOFR plus an applicable margin of 1.50% to 2.00% per annum based on the Companys fixed charge coverage ratio, or (b) an alternate prime base rate subject to an increase from 0.00% to 0.50% per annum based on the Companys fixed charge coverage ratio. As of December 31, 2022, the Companys SOFR based interest rate was 5.96% and the Companys prime based rate was 7.50%. A commitment fee, based upon undrawn availability under the Credit Facility bearing interest at a rate of either 0.20% or 0.25% per annum based on the amount of undrawn availability, is payable monthly. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, cash receipts are deposited into a lock-box, which are at the Companys discretion unless the cash dominion period is in effect, during which cash receipts will be used to reduce amounts owing under the Credit Agreement. The cash dominion period is triggered in an event of default or if excess availability, as defined under the Credit Agreement, is less than the $9,000 (12% of the aggregate revolving commitment) for three consecutive business days, and will continue until, during the preceding 45 consecutive days, no event of default existed and excess availability has been greater than $9,000 at all times (with the trigger subject to adjustment based on the Companys revolving commitment). The Companys required excess availability related to the Covenant Testing Trigger Period (as defined under the Credit Agreement) is less than $7,500 (10% of the aggregate revolving commitment) for three consecutive business days, the Company shall be required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0 to 1.0, and continuing until excess availability has been greater than or equal to $7,500 at all times for 45 consecutive days (with the trigger subject to adjustment based on the Companys revolving commitment),. Certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries are co-borrowers (together with the Company, the Borrowers) under the Credit Agreement, and certain other domestic subsidiaries are guarantors (the Guarantors and, together with the Borrowers, the Loan Parties) under the Credit Agreement. The Borrowers and the Guarantors are jointly and severally liable for the Borrowers obligations under the Credit Agreement. The Loan Parties obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured, subject to customary permitted liens and certain exclusions, by a perfected security interest in (a) all tangible and intangible assets and (b) all of the capital stock owned by the Loan Parties (limited, in the case of foreign subsidiaries, to 65% of the capital stock of such foreign subsidiaries). The Borrowers may voluntarily prepay the loans at any time. The Borrowers are required to make mandatory prepayments of the loans (without payment of a premium) with net cash proceeds received upon the occurrence of certain prepayment events, which include certain sales or other dispositions of collateral, certain casualty or condemnation events, certain equity issuances or capital contributions, and the incurrence of certain debt. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and customary affirmative and negative covenants applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries, including, among other things, restrictions on indebtedness, liens, fundamental changes, investments, dispositions, prepayment of other indebtedness, mergers, and dividends and other distributions. Events of default under the Credit Agreement include: failure to timely make payments due under the Credit Agreement; material misrepresentations or misstatements under the Credit Agreement and other related agreements; failure to comply with covenants under the Credit Agreement and other related agreements; certain defaults in respect of other material indebtedness; insolvency or other related events; certain defaulted judgments; certain ERISA-related events; certain security interests or liens under the loan documents cease to be, or are challenged by the Company or any of its subsidiaries as not being, in full force and effect; any loan document or any material provision of the same ceases to be in full force and effect; and certain criminal indictments or convictions of any Loan Party. As of December 31, 2022, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. See additional information in Note 4 Borrowings in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this report. Funding Requirements Based on our current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, investments, cash flows from operations and available debt or equity financing will be sufficient to finance our operational cash needs through at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements may, however, vary materially from those now planned or anticipated. Changes in our operating plans, lower than anticipated net sales or gross margin, increased expenses, continued or worsened economic conditions, worsening operating performance by us, or other events, including those 36 Table of Contents described in Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A may force us to sell assets or seek additional debt or equity financings in the future, including the issuance of additional common stock under a registration statement. There can be no assurance that we would be able to raise such additional financing or engage in asset sales on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to raise adequate additional financing or proceeds from asset sales, we will need to defer, reduce or eliminate significant planned expenditures, restructure or significantly curtail our operations. Seasonality We believe our business is somewhat seasonal in nature. It includes many categories, geographies, and channels which may experience seasonality from time to time based on various external factors. Additionally, seasonality may affect our product mix. These historical seasonality trends could continue, and such trends may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations in subsequent periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Nature of Operations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Nature of Operations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the following accounting policies and estimates set forth below involve a greater degree of judgment or complexity. Valuation of Inventory Inventory Reserves. Inventory primarily consists of finished goods. We purchase inventory from suppliers both domestically and internationally, primarily in Taiwan and China. Inventory is accounted for using the first-in first-out (FIFO) method and valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. We recognize provisions for obsolete and slow-moving inventory primarily based on judgments about expected disposition of inventory, generally, through sales, or liquidations of obsolete inventory, and expected recoverable values based on currently-available or historical information. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those anticipated by management, additional write-offs to reduce the value of our inventory may be required. Income Taxes Realization of Deferred Tax Assets. We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740. Under ASC 740, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. When appropriate, a valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets, which include tax credits and loss carryforwards, to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The ability to realize deferred tax assets depends on the ability to generate sufficient taxable income within the carryforward periods provided for in the tax law for each applicable tax jurisdiction. We primarily consider the following possible sources of taxable income when assessing the realization of our deferred tax assets: Future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences; Future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; Tax-planning strategies. 37 Table of Contents The assessment regarding whether a valuation allowance is required or should be adjusted/released also considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency and severity of recent losses, forecasts of future profitability, the duration of statutory carryforward periods, our experience with tax attributes expiring unused and tax planning alternatives. In making such judgments, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. Concluding that a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is significant negative evidence that is objective and verifiable, such as cumulative losses in recent years. We utilized a three-year analysis of actual results as the primary measure of cumulative losses in recent years. In addition, the near- and medium-term financial outlook is considered when assessing the need for a release of our valuation allowance. The valuation of deferred tax assets requires judgment and assessment of the future tax consequences of events that have been recorded in the financial statements or in the tax returns, and our future profitability represents our best estimate of those future events. Changes in our current estimates, due to unanticipated events or otherwise, could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. The Companys policy is to record interest and penalties as income tax expense.