Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also impair our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. 9 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Business, Industry and Operations We lack a long-term operating history on which to evaluate our consolidated business and determine if we will be able to execute our business plan, and we can give no assurance that our operations will result in sustained profitability. We are focused on building a large, successful technology company in the areas of information technology (IT), electronic warfare, information warfare, and cybersecurity with businesses in the governmental and commercial markets. Since November 2019, we have executed our business plan and completed seven acquisitions. As a result, we have a limited operating history on a consolidated basis to evaluate our business and prospects. Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties, expenses, and difficulties associated with early-stage enterprises. You should consider an investment in our Company in light of these risks, uncertainties, expenses, and difficulties. Such risks include: limited operating history at our current scale; our ability to raise capital to develop our business and fund our operations; our ability to anticipate and adapt to developing markets; acceptance by our customers; limited marketing experience; competition from competitors with substantially greater financial resources and assets; and the ability to identify, attract, and retain qualified personnel. Because we are subject to these risks, and the other risks outlined below, you may have a difficult time evaluating our business and your investment in our Company. We have historically suffered net losses, and we may not be able to sustain profitability. We had an accumulated deficit of $43,982,900 as of December 31, 2023, and we expect to continue to generate a net loss in the year ending December 31, 2024. As a result, we are incurring net losses, and it is possible that we may not be able to achieve the revenue levels necessary to achieve and sustain net profitability. If we fail to generate sufficient revenues to operate profitably on a consistent basis, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, you could lose all or part of your investment. We rely upon a few, select key employees who are instrumental to our ability to conduct and grow our business. In the event any of those key employees would no longer be affiliated with the Company, and we did not replace them with equally capable replacements, it may have a material detrimental impact on our ability to successfully operate our business. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate high-quality management, operations, and other personnel who are in high demand, are often subject to competing employment offers, and are attractive recruiting targets for our competitors. The loss of qualified executives and key employees, or our inability to attract, retain, and motivate high-quality executives and employees required for the planned expansion of our business, may harm our operating results and impair our ability to grow. We depend on the continued services of our key personnel, including Mark C. Fuller, our CEO, David T. Bell, our CFO, Glen R. Ives, our Chief Operating Officer (COO), and Jay O. Wright, our Chief Strategy Officer and General Counsel. Our work with each of these key personnel is subject to changes and/or termination, and our inability to effectively retain the services of our key management personnel, could materially and adversely affect our operating results and future prospects. Certain key members of our management team lack significant public company experience in their positions and our executive management team has limited time working together. The members of our team do not all have significant prior experience working in their roles for a public company, including our CEO, COO, and CFO. The management team also has limited experience working together as a team. The inability of any member of our management team to operate effectively in their position, or for the management team to effectively work together, could materially and adversely affect our operating results and future prospects. 10 Table of Contents We may have difficulty raising additional capital, which could deprive us of necessary resources. We expect to continue to devote significant capital resources to fund our acquisition strategy. In order to support the initiatives envisioned in our business plan, we will need to raise additional funds through the sale of public or private debt or equity financing or other arrangements. Our ability to raise additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control, including the state of capital markets and the market price of our common stock. Sufficient additional financing may not be available to us or may be available only on terms that would result in further dilution to the current owners of our common stock. If we are unable to raise additional capital to implement our business plan it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business prospects and operations, and the value of an investment in our Company. You may experience dilution, subordination of stockholder rights, preferences, and privileges, and decrease in market price of our common stock as a result of our financing efforts. Any future equity financing may involve substantial dilution to our then existing stockholders. Any future debt financing could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. There can be no assurance that such additional capital will be available, on a timely basis, or on terms acceptable to us. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital or the terms of raising such capital are unacceptable, then we may have to modify our business plan and/or curtail our planned activities and other operations. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may issue substantial amounts of common stock in the future, which would dilute the percentage ownership held by the investors who purchase shares of our common stock in any such offering. Additionally, we have certain potential dilutive instruments, of which the conversion of these instruments could result in dilution to stockholders: As of March 15, 2024 the maximum potential dilution is 28,274,400shares and includes Series A preferred stock convertible into approximately 587,500 shares of common stock, Series C preferred stock convertible into 481,250 shares of common stock, options granted convertible into 8,243,437 shares of common stock, and warrants granted convertible into 18,962,212 shares of common stock. Failure to effectively manage any future any future growth could place strains on our managerial, operational, and financial resources and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our expected growth could place a strain on our managerial, operational, and financial resources. Further, if our subsidiaries businesses grow, then we will be required to manage multiple relationships. Any further growth by us or our subsidiaries, or any increase in the number of our strategic relationships, will increase the strain on our managerial, operational, and financial resources. This strain may inhibit our ability to achieve the rapid execution necessary to implement our business plan and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business prospects and operations, and the value of an investment in our Company. We generate substantially all of our revenue from contracts with the United States federal, state, and local governments which are subject to a number of challenges and risks that may adversely impact our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Sales to U.S federal, state, and local governmental agencies have in the past accounted for, and may in the future account for, substantially all of our revenue. Sales to such government entities are subject to the following risks: selling to governmental agencies can be highly competitive, expensive, and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that such efforts will generate a sale. Our existing contracts typically expire after some period of time and must be re-competed. There is no guarantee that we will win such re-compete efforts; government certification requirements applicable to our products may change and in doing so restrict our ability to sell into the U.S. federal government sector until we have attained the revised certification; government demand and payment for our products and services may be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products and services; governments can generally terminate our contracts for convenience, meaning we could lose part or all of our revenue on short notice; 11 Table of Contents governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our services, which would adversely impact our revenue and results of operations, or institute fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities; and when we are a subcontractor, we have less control over the execution and success of the contract with the government. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the USG, if our reputation or relationship with government agencies was impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. We operate in an industry that is highly regulated and unexpected changes in laws could have a significant adverse impact on our business. As a contractor to the USG, as well as state and local governments, we are heavily regulated in most fields in which we operate. We deal with numerous USG agencies and entities, and when working with these and other entities, we must comply with and are affected by unique laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts. Some significant law and regulations that affect us include the following: the FAR, and agency regulations supplemental to FAR, which regulate the formation, administration, and performance of USG contracts; the False Statements Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability for making false statements to the USG; the Truthful Cost or Pricing Data Statute (formerly known as the Truth in Negotiations Act), which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with the negotiation of certain contracts, modifications, or task orders; the Procurement Integrity Act, which regulates access to competitor bid and proposal information and certain internal government procurement sensitive information, and our ability to provide compensation to certain former government procurement officials; laws and regulations restricting the ability of a contractor to provide gifts or gratuities to employees of the USG, including the FCPA which prohibits U.S. citizens and entities from bribing foreign government officials to benefit their business interests; post-government employment laws and regulations, which restrict the ability of a contractor to recruit and hire current employees of the USG and deploy former employees of the USG; laws, regulations, and executive orders restricting the handling, use, and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes or determined to be controlled unclassified information or for official use only, and the export of certain products, services, and technical data, including requirements regarding any applicable licensing of our employees involved in such work; laws, regulations, and executive orders regulating the handling, use, and dissemination of personally identifiable information in the course of performing a USG contract; international trade compliance laws, regulations, and executive orders that prohibit business with certain sanctioned entities and require authorization for certain exports or imports in order to protect national security and global stability, including The International Traffic in Arms Regulations that controls the manufacture, sale, and distribution of defense and space-related articles and services as defined in the United States Munitions List); laws, regulations, and executive orders governing organizational conflicts of interest that may restrict our ability to compete for certain USG contracts because of the work that we currently perform for the USG or may require that we take measures such as firewalling off certain employees or restricting their future work activities due to the current work that they perform under a USG contract; laws, regulations, and executive orders that impose requirements on us to ensure compliance with requirements and protect the USG from risks related to our supply chain such as compliance with CMMC; laws, regulations, and mandatory contract provisions providing protections to employees or subcontractors seeking to report alleged fraud, waste, and abuse related to a USG contract; the Contractor Business Systems rule, which authorizes DoD agencies to withhold a portion of our payments if we are determined to have a significant deficiency in our accounting, cost estimating, purchasing, earned value management, material management and accounting, and/or property management system; and 12 Table of Contents the Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting and allowability requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based USG contracts and require consistency of accounting practices over time. Given the magnitude of our revenue derived from contracts with the DoD, the DCAA is our relevant government audit agency. The DCAA audits the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies including, among other areas, compensation. The DCMA, as our relevant government contract management agency, may determine that a portion of our employee compensation is unallowable based on the findings and recommendations in the DCAAs audits. In addition, the DCMA directly reviews the adequacy of certain other business systems, such as our purchasing system. We are also subject to audit by Inspectors General of other USG agencies. The USG may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contract rules and regulations at any time. When operating outside the U.S., we are subject to special USG laws and regulations (such as the FCPA), local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls, and repatriation of earnings, as well as varying currency, political, and economic risks. USG contracts are, by the terms, subject to termination by the USG either for convenience or default by the contractor. In addition, USG contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. The U.S. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract performance could take many years. As is common in the industry, our Company is subject to business risk, including changes in governmental appropriations, national defense policies, service modernizations plans, military base reductions and closures, and availability of funds. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our Company's business with the USG in the future. The USG has a broad range of actions it can instigate to enforce its procurement law and policies. These include proposing a contractor, certain of its operations or individual employees for debarment or suspending or debarring a contractor, certain of its operations or individual employees from future government business. In addition to criminal, civil, and administrative actions by the USG, under The False Claims Act, an individual alleging fraud related to payments under a USG contract or program may file a qui tam lawsuit on behalf of the government against us; if successful in obtaining a judgment or settlement, the individual filing the suit may receive up to 30% of the amount recovered by the government. If we are subject to an enforcement action by the USG, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. USG contracts contain numerous provisions that are unfavorable to us. USG contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies, some of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including allowing the government to: cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; claim rights in systems and software developed by us; suspend or debar us from doing business with the USG or with a governmental agency; impose fines and penalties and subject us to criminal prosecution; and control or prohibit the export of our data technology or proprietary service solutions. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may be unable to recover even those amounts and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Depending on the value of a contract, such termination could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Certain contracts also contain organizational conflicts of interest (OCI) clauses that limit our ability to compete for or perform certain other contracts. OCIs arise any time we engage in activities that (i) make us unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the government; (ii) impair or might impair our objectivity in performing contract work; or (iii) provide us with an unfair competitive advantage. Depending upon the value of the matters affected, an OCI issue that precludes our participation in or performance of a program or contract could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our teaming partners, our ability to market, sell, and distribute our services will be limited, and our business, financial position, and results of operations will be harmed. We expect that sales through teaming partners will continue to be a significant percentage of our revenue. Our agreements with our teaming partners are generally non-exclusive, meaning our teaming partners may offer customers services from several different companies, including services that compete with ours. The loss of a substantial number of our teaming partners, our possible inability to replace them, or the failure to recruit additional teaming partners could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our teaming partners, which could result in material losses. Most of our sales for work performed for the USG are through our teaming partners and are on an open credit basis. We cannot assure an investor these programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks. If we are unable to adequately control these risks, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. Our business could be adversely affected by changes in spending levels or budgetary priorities of the federal, state, and local governments or by the imposition by the USG of sequestration in the absence of an approved budget or continuing resolution. Because we derive substantially all of our revenue from contracts with the federal, state, and local governments, we believe that the success and development of our business will continue to depend on our successful participation in federal, state, and local contract programs. Since the majority of our revenue comes from the USG, changes in USG budgetary priorities, such as for homeland security or to address Social Security or Medicare reform, or actions taken to address government budget deficits, the national debt, and/or prevailing economic conditions, could directly affect our financial performance. If the USG imposes sequestration in the absence of an approved budget or CR our participation in USG contract programs could be impaired. A significant decline in USG expenditures, a shift of expenditures away from programs that we support or a change in USG contracting policies could cause USG agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any time without penalty or not to exercise options to renew contracts. At times, we may continue to work without funding, and use our own internal funds to meet our customers desired delivery dates for products or services. It is uncertain at this time which of our programs funding could be reduced in future years or whether new legislation will be passed by Congress in the next fiscal year that could result in additional or alternative funding cuts. If we fail to establish and maintain important relationships with government entities and agencies, our ability to successfully bid for new business may be adversely affected. To facilitate our ability to prepare bids for new business, we rely in part on establishing and maintaining relationships with officials of various government entities and agencies. These relationships enable us to provide informal input and advice to government entities and agencies prior to the development of a formal bid. We may be unable to successfully maintain our relationships with government entities and agencies, and any failure to do so may adversely affect our ability to bid successfully for new business and could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We derive significant revenue from contracts and task orders awarded through a competitive bidding process. If we are unable to consistently win new awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected. Our contracts and task orders with the USG are typically awarded through a competitive bidding process. We expect that much of that business we will seek in the foreseeable future will continue to be awarded through competitive bidding. Budgetary pressures and changes in the procurement process have caused many government customers to increasingly purchase goods and services through IDIQ contracts, GSA schedule contracts and other GWACs. These contracts, some of which are awarded to multiple contractors, have increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring that we make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenue under each such contract. This competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following: we bid on programs before the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; 14 Table of Contents we expend substantial cost and managerial time and efforts to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that we may not win; we may be unable to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we win; and we may encounter expense and delay if our competitors protest or challenge awards or contracts to us in competitive bidding, and any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts we may be prevented from providing services to customers that are purchased under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected and that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. If we are unable to win prime contracts, or acquire companies with prime contract vehicles, our business and prospects will be adversely affected. In addition, upon the expiration of a contract, if the customer requires further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract and the termination or non-renewal of any of our significant contracts could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our business may suffer if we or our employees are unable to obtain the security clearances or other qualifications needed to perform services for our customers. Many of our USG contracts require us to have security clearances and employ personnel with specified levels of education, work experience, and security clearances. Depending on the level of clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain. If we or our employees lose or are unable to obtain necessary security clearances, we may not be able to win new business and our existing customers could terminate their contracts with us or decide not to renew them. To the extent we cannot obtain or maintain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular contract, we may not generate the revenue anticipated from the contract which could cause our results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. If our prime contractors fail to maintain their relationships with the applicable governmental agency and fulfill their contractual obligations, our performance as a subcontractor and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted and our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our performance as a subcontractor on a government contract is dependent on our prime contractors ability to satisfactorily maintain its relationship with the applicable government agency and fulfill its obligations under their contract. A failure by our prime contractor to fulfill its obligations under their contract could result in the termination of the prime contract, thereby resulting in the termination of our subcontract. If any significant subcontract is terminated in this manner, it could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. The USGs appropriation process and other factors may delay the collection of our receivables, and our business may be adversely affected if we cannot collect our receivables in a timely manner. We depend on the timely collections of our receivables to generate cash flow, provide working capital, pay debt, and continue our business operations. If the USG or any of our other customers or any prime contractors for which we are a subcontractor fail to pay or delays the payment of their outstanding invoices for any reason, our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The USG may fail to pay outstanding invoices for a number of reasons, including lack of appropriated funds, administrative error, or lack of an approved budget. If we experience difficulties collecting receivables, it could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. The USG may change its procurement or other practices in a manner adverse to us. The USG may change its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, such as those related to cost accounting standards. It could also adopt new contracting methods relating to GSA contracts or other government-wide contracts, adopt new socio-economic requirements, or change the basis upon which it reimburses our compensation and other expenses or otherwise limit such reimbursements. In all such cases, there is uncertainty surrounding the changes and what actual impacts they may have on contractors. These changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or win re-competed contracts or adversely affect our future profit margin. Any new contracting methods could be costly or 15 Table of Contents administratively difficult for us to satisfy and, as a result, could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our contracts and administrative processes and systems are subject to audits and cost adjustments by the USG, which could reduce our revenue, disrupt our business, or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. USG agencies routinely audit and investigate government contracts and government contractors administrative processes and systems. These agencies review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. They also evaluate the adequacy of internal controls over our business systems, including our purchasing, accounting, estimating, earned value management, and government property systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated or assigned to contracts will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded and certain penalties may be imposed. Moreover, if any of the administrative processes and systems are found not to comply with requirements, we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts or collect our revenue in a timely manner. Therefore, an unfavorable outcome of an audit by the DCAA or another government agency could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with the USG. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these results could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We may not receive the full amounts authorized under the contracts included in our backlog, which could reduce our revenue in future periods below the levels anticipated. Our total backlog consists of funded and unfunded amounts. Funded backlog represents contract value from funds appropriated by the U.S. Congress (Congress) and obligated by the customer which is expected to be recognized as revenue. Unfunded backlog represents the sum of the unappropriated contract value on executed contracts and unexercised option years that is expected to be recognized as revenue. The primary risks that could affect our ability to recognize revenue from backlog on a timely basis or at all are: program schedule changes, contract modifications, and our ability to assimilate and deploy new consulting staff against funded backlog; cost-cutting initiatives and other efforts to reduce USG spending, which could reduce or delay funding for orders for services; and delayed funding of our contracts due to delays in the completion of the USG's budgeting process and the use of CRs by the USG to fund its operations. The amount of our funded backlog is also subject to change, due to, among other factors: changes in congressional appropriations that reflect changes in USG policies or priorities resulting from various military, political, economic, or international developments; changes in the use of USG contracting vehicles, and the provisions therein used to procure our services and adjustments to the scope of services, or cancellation of contracts, by the USG at any time. In addition, contract backlog includes orders under contracts for which the period of performance has expired, and we may not recognize revenue on the funded backlog that includes such orders due to, among other reasons, the tardy submission of invoices by our subcontractors and the expiration of the relevant appropriated funding in accordance with a predetermined expiration date such as the end of the USG's fiscal year. Our backlog may not result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Without additional Congressional appropriations, some of the contracts included in our backlog will remain unfunded, which could materially and adversely affect our future operating results. Many of our USG contracts include multi-year performance periods in which Congress appropriates funds on an annual basis. A majority of our contracts are only partially funded at any point during their full performance period and unfunded contract work is subject to future appropriations by Congress. As a result of a lack of appropriated funds or efforts to reduce USG spending, our backlog may not result in revenue or may be delayed. If our backlog estimate is inaccurate and we fail to realize those amounts as revenue, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Employee misconduct, including security breaches, could result in the loss of customers and our suspension or debarment from contracting with the USG. We may be unable to prevent our employees from engaging in misconduct, fraud, or other improper activities that could adversely affect our business and reputation. Misconduct could include the failure to comply with USG procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, and legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts. Many of the systems we work on involve managing and protecting information involved in national security and other sensitive government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could 16 Table of Contents prevent us from having access to such critically sensitive systems. Other examples of employee misconduct could include timecard fraud and violations of the Anti-Kickback Act of 1986. The precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. As a result of employee misconduct, we could face fines and penalties, loss of security clearance and suspension or debarment from contracting with the USG, which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We face intense competition and could fail to gain market share from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We obtain much of our business on the basis of proposals submitted in response to requests from potential and current customers, who may also receive proposals from other firms. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid changes in technology, customer requirements, industry standards, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. We anticipate continued challenges from current competitors, which in many cases are more established and enjoy greater resources than us, as well as by new entrants into the industry. Non-traditional players have entered the market and have established positions related to such areas as cloud computing, cyber, satellite operations, and business systems. We also face indirect competition from certain government agencies that perform services for themselves similar to those marketed by us. If we are unable to anticipate or effectively react to these competitive challenges, our competitive position could weaken, and we could experience a decline in our growth rate or revenue that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product and service offerings and may be able to leverage their relationships with distribution partners and customers based on other products or services, or incorporate functionality into existing products to gain business in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products, subscriptions and services, including by selling at zero or negative margins, product bundling, or offering closed technology platforms. Potential customers may also prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier regardless of product performance or features. As a result, even if the features of our platform or the quality of our services are superior, customers may not purchase our products or services. In addition, new innovative start-up companies, and larger companies that are making significant investments in research and development, may invent similar or superior products and technologies that compete with our platform. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their resources. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to take costly actions in response to the actions of our competitors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Systems failures may disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our operating results. Any systems failures, including network, software, or hardware failures, whether caused by us, a third-party service provider, unauthorized intruders and hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks, could cause loss of data or interruptions or delays in our business or that of our customers. Like other companies, we have experienced cyber security threats to our data and systems, our Company sensitive information, and our IT infrastructure, including attempted malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, systems failures, and temporary disruptions. Prior attempted cyber-attacks directed at us have not had a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Many of the systems that we develop, integrate, maintain, otherwise support or use involve managing and protecting intelligence, national security, and other sensitive government information. A security breach or system failure in a system that we develop, integrate, maintain or otherwise support could result in a loss of revenue, remediation costs, claims for damages or contract termination and our errors and omissions liability insurance may be inadequate to compensate us from all the damages that we might incur. Any such event could also cause serious damage to our reputation and prevent us from having access to or being eligible further work on such sensitive systems for government customers. In addition, to provide services to our customers, we often depend upon or use customer systems that are supported by the customer or third parties. Any security breach or system failure in such systems could result in an interruption of our customers operations, significant delays under a contract, loss of revenue, claims for damages, contract termination, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our insurance, including for errors and omissions liability and property and business interruption, may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. 17 Table of Contents Our failure to adequately protect our confidential information and proprietary rights may harm our competitive position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our proprietary information in order to take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary information, our competitive position could be harmed, and our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our annual revenue and operating results could be volatile due to the unpredictability of the USGs budgeting process and policy priorities. Our annual revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly and unpredictably in the future. If the USG does not adopt, or delays adoption of, a budget for each fiscal year beginning on October 1, or fails to pass a CR, federal agencies may be forced to suspend our contracts and delay the award of new and follow-on contracts and orders due to a lack of funding. Further, the rate at which the USG procures technology may be negatively affected following changes in presidential administrations and senior government officials or by divided government where one political party controls the White House and another party controls Congress. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Our annual operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which in turn may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We may lose money or generate less than anticipated profits if we do not accurately estimate the cost of an engagement which is conducted on a fixed-price basis. We generated 7% of our total revenue in the year ended December 31, 2023, 8% of our total revenue in the year ended December 31, 2022, and 19% of our total revenue in the year ended December 31, 2021, from FFP contracts. FFP contracts require us to price our contracts by predicting our expenditures in advance. In addition, some of our engagements obligate us to provide ongoing maintenance and other supporting or ancillary services on a fixed-price basis or with limitations on our ability to increase prices. Many of our engagements are also on a T&M basis. To the extent that our actual labor costs are higher than the contract rates, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. When making proposals for engagements on a FFP basis, we rely on our estimates of costs and timing for completing the projects. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding our capability to complete the task efficiently. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of FFP contracts, including delays caused by factors outside of our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable. If we encounter such problems in the future, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs. At December 31, 2023, our backlog included cost reimbursable, T&M, and FFP contracts. Cost reimbursable and T&M contracts generally have lower profit margins than FFP contracts. Our earnings and margins may therefore vary materially and adversely depending on the relative mix of contract types, the costs incurred in their performance, the achievement of other performance objectives and the state of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Inflation may cause the Fed to increase interest rates thereby increasing our interest expense. Sustained inflation can cause the Federal Reserve Board and its Open Market Committee (Fed) to raise the target for the federal funds rate or keep it at a high level which normally translates into an increase in most banks prime rate. Because our notes with Live Oak Banking Company are both variable interest rate instruments tied to the prime rate, actions by the Fed to increase the federal funds rate or keep it high may increase our cost of debt and our interest expense thereby reducing our pre-tax income and net income. Our borrowing costs have recently increased and would increase with future Fed interest rate increases, although the impacts have been and are expected to continue to be immaterial. Our contracts with U.S. federal, state, and local government customers do not permit us to pass along our increased financing costs. The increases to our borrowing costs have not impacted (and are not expected to impact) our ability to make timely payments. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Acquisitions We may have difficulty identifying and executing acquisitions on favorable terms and therefore may grow more slowly than we historically have grown. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or make investments in complementary companies services, products, or technologies. Through acquisitions, we have expanded our base of U.S. federal, state, and local governments customers, increased the range of solutions we offer to our customers and deepened our penetration of existing markets and customers. We may encounter difficulty identifying new acquisitions and executing suitable acquisitions due to lack of financing. To the extent that management is involved in identifying acquisition opportunities or integrating new acquisitions into our business, our management may be diverted from operating our core business. Without acquisitions, we may not grow as rapidly as we historically have grown, which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We may encounter other risks in executing our acquisition strategy, including: increased competition for acquisitions may increase the costs for our acquisitions; unreasonable expectations of companies related to their perceived versus actual value; our failure to discover material liabilities during the due diligence process, including the failure of prior owners of any acquired businesses or their employees to comply with applicable laws or regulations, such as the FAR and health, safety, and environmental laws, or their failure to fulfill their contractual obligations to the USG or other customers; our acquisitions may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or allow us to achieve our goals, and any acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by our customers, analysts, and investors; acquisition financing may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; failure to properly integrate our acquisitions with our existing business thereby preventing the realization of potential synergies with the acquired business; and debt incurred in making acquisitions may reduce our financial flexibility to pursue other opportunities or invest in internal growth. Each of these types of risks could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of any companies we acquire, which could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from what we anticipated. The success of our acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to continue to successfully integrate any businesses we may acquire in the future. The integration of these businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, absorb significant management attention, and require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. These integration difficulties include the integration of personnel with disparate business backgrounds, the transition of new information systems, coordination of geographically dispersed organizations, loss of key employees of acquired companies, and reconciliation of different corporate cultures. For these or other reasons, we may be unable to retain key customers of acquired companies. Moreover, any acquired business may fail to generate the revenue or net income we expected or produce the efficiencies or cost-savings we anticipated. Any of these outcomes could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions and a change in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. Goodwill accounts for $10,716,907 of our recorded total assets as of December 31, 2023. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. If there is an impairment, we would be required to write down the recorded amount of goodwill, which would be reflected as a charge against operating income and would reduce the value of our total assets and our total equity on our balance sheet. During the third quarter of 2023, due to decline in stock price, Management determined that a triggering event occurred representing an indicator of goodwill impairment, resulting in a non-cash charge of $6,919,094. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Indebtedness Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. We have substantial indebtedness. We have $12,456,407 of debt as of December 31, 2023, the majority of which originally matured in calendar year 2024 and the terms of which have subsequently been amended to extend the maturity date to calendar year 2026. See subsequent events under Note 16 Part II