Item 2 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition This discussion should be read in connection with the information contained in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview On November 2, 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of the wood-based activated carbon, reactivation and mineral-based filtration media business of CECA, a subsidiary of Arkema Group (New Business). Due to the complementary nature of the New Business products and market applications to those of the Company, and its significant exposure to less regulated, more traditional end markets, the addition of the New Business to the Company creates a more balanced global platform from which the Company can continue to grow by leveraging its now expanded capabilities in the global activated carbon and adjacent filtration media market areas. Beginning January 1, 2017, the Company realigned its internal management reporting structure to incorporate the New Business into the existing business, and reorganized its current reportable segments. The Company is reporting its results using the new reportable segment structure and has restated prior periods to conform with the change in reportable segments. The analysis of operating results focuses on the three reportable segments: Activated Carbon, Alternative Materials, and Advanced Water Purification. Refer Notes 13 and 15 of the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information regarding the reportable segments and the acquisition. Results of Operations Consolidated net sales increased $22.5 million or 18.7% for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, versus the similar 2016 period. Included in the change were net sales of $24.2 million from the New Business and a $1.9 million negative impact of foreign currency translation due to a stronger U.S. dollar as compared to European currencies. Net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 for the Activated Carbon segment increased $16.2 million or 14.8%, versus the similar 2016 periods. Included in this change was the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $1.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017. Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 Net of Foreign Foreign As Currency Currency (Dollars in millions) Reported Impact Impact Environmental Air market $ 3.3 $ 0.2 $ 3.5 Environmental Water market (1.0) 0.1 (0.9) Food and Beverage market 4.1 0.2 4.3 Industrial market 4.9 0.3 5.2 Potable Water market 2.3 0.7 3.0 Specialty Carbon market 3.4 0.2 3.6 Other (0.8) (0.8) Total Activated Carbon $ 16.2 $ 1.7 $ 17.9 The New Business contributed $13.2 million of net sales in the first quarter of 2017, primarily in the Food and Beverage and Industrial markets. Excluding sales from the New Business, net sales increased due primarily to higher demand in the Potable Water market for treatment of perfluorinated compounds (PFCs), Environmental Air products for mercury removal and the Specialty Carbon market for metal recovery and respirator products in the Americas. The increases were partially offset by lower activated carbon pellet sales in the Asia Environmental Air market for treating sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions as an order in 2016 didnt repeat in 2017, as well as lower overall sales in Europe. Net sales for the Alternative Materials segment increased $10.4 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the same period in 2016 as a result of $11.0 million of additional New Business sales of diatomaceous earth and perlite filtration media products. This additional business was partially offset by lower demand for defense and medical application products and a $0.2 million negative foreign currency impact of the weaker pound sterling. 22 Table of Contents Net sales for the Advanced Water Purification segment declined $4.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the same period in 2016. Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) in Net Sales Ballast water treatment $ (1.8) Traditional ultraviolet light (0.7) Ion exchange (1.6) Total Advanced Water Purification $ (4.1) For the quarter ended March 31, 2017, sales for ballast water treatment were lower due to a lack of market demand driven by ship owners requesting extensions to compliance dates. In addition, ion exchange sales were lower due to several large projects that were completed early in 2016 that didnt repeat in 2017. Foreign currency translation effects in the Advanced Water Purification segment were not significant. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percentage of net sales, was 30.8% for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 compared to 34.7% for the similar 2016 period, a 3.9 percentage point or $5.6 million decrease primarily in the Activated Carbon segment. Approximately $2.0 million of this decline resulted from a less favorable mix of legacy business sales primarily in the Activated Carbon segment, and $0.9 million resulted from a business interruption insurance settlement that benefited the Activated Carbon segment in 2016. Also contributing to the decline was the inclusion in 2017 of the historically lower margins of the New Business which caused a $1.9 million decline, along with $0.6 million of additional costs related to the inventory fair value step up. The impact of the New Business was split evenly between the Activated Carbon and Alternative Materials segments. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased $3.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 versus the similar 2016 period, including $2.4 million incurred by the New Business, and an increase in depreciation expense for completed projects. Of this increase, $1.9 million was included in the Activated Carbon segment, and $1.1 million was reported in the Alternative Materials segment. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.8 million or 8.0% for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 versus the comparable 2016 period. The increase was primarily due to $2.5 million of expenses incurred by the New Business, of which $1.3 million is reported in the Activated Carbon segment, and $1.2 million in the Alternative Materials segment. Partially offsetting the additional expenses from the New Business were lower employee related costs as a result of the Companys cost savings initiatives, including lower benefit costs, primarily in the Activated Carbon segment. Research and development expenses were comparable for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 versus the comparable 2016 period. Interest income was comparable for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 versus the comparable 2016 period. Interest expense increased $1.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 versus the comparable 2016 period due to an increase in the average outstanding borrowings under the Companys debt agreements resulting from the Companys purchase of the New Business, coupled with higher interest rates in 2017. Other income - net was comparable for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 versus the comparable 2016 period. The income tax provision increased $1.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, as compared to the similar 2016 period. The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was 84.1% compared to 34.7% for the same period in 2016. The increase in the effective tax rate as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily relates to the incorporation of the Companys U.S. Belgium branch. The incorporation is a part of an overall single integrated plan of reorganization that included the Companys acquisition of the New Business in November 2016. The impact of the U.S. Belgium branch incorporation was a discrete event for the quarter and increased the effective tax rate for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 by approximately 45.1%. In addition, deferred tax adjustments and an increase in permanent items increased the effective tax rate for the current quarter by approximately 4.0% relative to the same period in 2016. 23 Table of Contents In the preparation of its effective tax rate, the Company uses an estimate of pre-tax earnings for the year. Throughout the year this estimate may change based on actual results and annual earnings estimate revisions in various tax jurisdictions. Since the Companys permanent tax benefits are relatively constant, changes in the estimate may have a significant impact on the effective tax rate in future periods. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has had sufficient financial resources to meet its operating requirements and to fund capital spending, dividend payments and pension plans. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $4.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to $12.1 million for the comparable period ended March 31, 2016. The $7.7 million decline in net cash flow as compared to the prior year period resulted from a net unfavorable working capital change driven by accounts receivable, along with the lower operating results in the first quarter of 2017 as compared to 2016. Cash flows used in investing activities included capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment totaling $11.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to expenditures of $7.4 million for the same period in 2016. The expenditures for both periods were primarily for improvements to manufacturing facilities. The 2017 spending includes the upgrade of the Companys Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania reactivation plant. Capital expenditures for 2017 are currently projected to be approximately $70 million to $80 million. The aforementioned expenditures are expected to be funded by operating cash flows, cash on hand and borrowings under existing credit facilities. Proceeds from the sale of assets were not significant for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Cash flows provided by financing activities increased for the period ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the comparable 2016 period as a result of higher borrowings and the suspension of the share repurchase program in April of 2016. On October 4, 2016, the Company entered into the First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) which provides for total borrowing capacity of $400 million, comprised of a $300 million revolving credit facility (Revolver) that expires on October 4, 2021, and a $100 million term loan facility (Term Loan) that expires on October 4, 2023. The full amount of the Term Loan was borrowed on the closing date. The Company had borrowed $160 million under the Revolver to finance the November 2016 acquisition of the New Business. The Revolver is available for working capital requirements and general corporate purposes. Total availability under the Credit Agreement was $163.0 million as of March 31, 2017. Beginning January 1, 2017, the Company began making quarterly repayments under the Term Loan equal to 1.25% of the outstanding balance until January 1, 2019, at which time the quarterly repayments will increase to 2.0% until the remaining balance is due on the October 4, 2023 maturity date. Certain domestic subsidiaries of the Company unconditionally guarantee all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type. In February 2017, an amendment was signed to the Credit Agreement, which, among other things, removes the quarterly leverage ratio requirement for the Company to pay dividends to its stockholders and replaces it with an annual dividend dollar restriction of $14 million. The Company has to comply with certain financial covenants including minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio as defined within the Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of March 31, 2017. Refer to Note 5 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on the Companys borrowing arrangements. In December 2013, the Companys Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program with a total of $150 million of purchases authorized. In April 2016, the Company suspended the activities of the share repurchase program. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, the Company repurchased 518,576 shares, at an average price of $15.81 per share. All of the above mentioned repurchases were funded from operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings 24 Table of Contents and the shares are held as treasury stock. Subsequent to these repurchases, the Companys remaining authorization to repurchase its common stock is approximately $64.1 million. Quarterly dividends on common stock of $0.05 per share were declared and paid in the first quarter of 2017 and 2016. In addition, in May 2017, the Companys Board of Directors declared a dividend on common stock of $0.05 per share. The Company currently expects that cash from annual operating activities plus cash balances and available external financing will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months. The cash needs of each of the Companys reporting segments are principally covered by the segments operating cash flow on a standalone basis. Any additional needs will be funded by cash on hand or borrowings under the existing credit facilities. The Advanced Water Purification segment historically has not required extensive capital expenditures. The Company believes that operating cash flows, cash on hand and borrowings will adequately support each of the segments cash needs. Cash and cash equivalents include $28.1 million and $27.4 million held by the Companys foreign subsidiaries as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Generally, cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries are not readily available for use in the United States without adverse tax consequences. The Companys principal sources of liquidity are its cash flows from its operating activities or borrowings directly from its lines of credit. The Company does not believe the level of its non-U.S. cash position will have an adverse effect on working capital needs, planned growth, repayment of maturing debt, or benefit plan funding. Contractual Obligations The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. As of March 31, 2017, there have been no material changes in the payment terms of these obligations since December 31, 2016. Contingencies The Company is involved in various legal proceedings, lawsuits and claims, including employment, product warranty and environmental matters of a nature considered normal to its business. It is the Companys policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the loss amount is reasonably estimable. Refer to Note 11 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on recently issued accounting guidance. Critical Accounting Policies There were no material changes to the Companys critical accounting policies as disclosed in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Outlook Activated Carbon According to the Company and independent market research estimates, demand for activated carbon is forecasted to increase at a 3% - 6% compound annual growth rate from 2016 through 2021. This estimated growth is expected to be driven by increasing global demand for clean air and drinking water as a result of expected economic growth generally, heightened public and consumer awareness of the harmful impacts to human health of contaminants in air and water supplies, and new and continuing government regulations. In addition, expected long-term growth of the economies of both mature and developing countries around the world are expected to increase the demand for activated carbon for use in industrial and food and beverage production processes and related wastewater treatment applications. 25 Table of Contents The ultimate pace of future demand growth for activated carbon will be dependent upon many factors, including: the pace of global economic growth, including short or prolonged economic slowdowns in any one or several geographic regions. Future demand growth is also dependent on the impact and timing of potential new air and water regulations as well as the possibility for changes to existing regulations, including the potential impact of environmental policies of the new Presidential administration installed in the U.S. in January 2017. Changes in corporate income tax and cross-border tax policies in the U.S. and other countries, as well as potential negative impacts of a stronger U.S. dollar versus other global currencies could also impact future demand growth. As a result of the Companys demonstrated ability to effectively meet market requirements through its provisioning of high performing virgin activated carbon and reactivated carbon, as well as its highly-regarded and value-added field and technical support services and carbon adsorption equipment offerings either individually or in combination, the Company expects demand for its activated carbon products and services to increase over the longer term. Backlog for carbon adsorption equipment was $21.2 million as of March 31, 2017 as compared to $7.2 million as of December 31, 2016. Globally, the Company derives approximately one-third of its total sales from industrial sector customers through providing activated carbon, services and equipment for their industrial process, environmental water and environmental air end market application needs. During 2016, the Company experienced a decline in sales of its products due to soft global industrial sector market conditions. As the 2017 first quarter came to a close, the Company continues to believe that market conditions impacting industrial sector customers are stabilizing, and that it is continuing to see early indications that the industrial sector economic environment may be improving. While this provides the Company with cautious optimism about the potential for an industrial sector recovery, the Company currently expects 2017 sales in this sector to be approximately level with 2016. Increased public awareness of the presence and human health impacts of man-made chemicals and naturally occurring contaminants in drinking water including significant current market activity for the removal of contaminants known as perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) and 1,2,3-Trichloropropane (1,2,3-TCP) is expected to contribute to growth of the Companys municipal drinking water business in 2017. Supporting this expectation was the Companys announcement in March 2017 of a $13.2 million contract for the provision of over 2 million pounds of granular activated carbon and 104 granular activated carbon adsorption equipment vessels for the removal of 1,2,3-TCP from 38 contaminated drinking water wells in California that is expected to be completed by June 2018. The increased sales expected from PFC and 1,2,3-TCP activities includes expected higher demand for activated carbon adsorption equipment. In the environmental air end market, the Company has established itself as a market leading supplier of powdered activated carbon (PAC) in North America for the removal of mercury from the flue gas of coal-fired power plants, a significant market that completed its formation in April 2016 in conjunction with the compliance requirements of the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) regulation, as well as regulations that had previously been in effect in 19 states and Canada. Based on 2017 representing the first complete year of compliance with MATS, and the Companys success at capturing net new market share in 2017 relative to 2016, the Company expects its 2017 sales into this market to experience moderate growth compared to 2016 subject to impacts on demand that could result from changes in the price of natural gas relative to coal (as electric generating units that are fueled with natural gas do not require PAC to remove mercury emissions as do coal-fired units) and abnormal weather conditions that could lead to higher or lower levels of required electricity generation. Over the longer term, it is expected that the number of coal fired generating units utilized in North America will decline and lead to a decline in the annual estimated market size. In Europe, the Company expects 2017 sales from its legacy business to be approximately flat to slightly lower than in 2016, excluding potential negative impacts of currency translation, consistent with currently expected customer demand patterns across various end markets. In addition, 2017 will include full year results of virgin wood-based activated carbon capabilities located in France and activated carbon reactivation capabilities located in Italy that were components of the Companys November 2, 2016 acquisition of the New Business. Its current activities are not dependent upon environmental regulations, and are primarily leveraged to food and beverage, industrial (including fine chemicals and pharmaceutical production) and potable water end market applications. The Company estimates these markets will grow in line with the general health of the overall economy. These newly acquired capabilities are expected to contribute approximately $50 million of sales in 2017. Raw material costs for production in 2017 are expected to be comparable to 2016. The Companys most significant raw material cost is coal. The quantity of coal consumed varies based on the overall production levels achieved as well as the 26 Table of Contents mix of products manufactured during the year. As of December 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 88% of its anticipated coal requirements for 2017 under contract or in inventory. Alternative Materials The Companys Alternative Materials segment supplies carbon cloth, diatomaceous earth (DE) and perlite filtration media products. The Company anticipates future growth in medical applications for wound care as its carbon cloth aids in the healing process while providing odor control. The Companys DE and perlite filtration media capabilities located in France and Italy were components of the Companys acquisition of the New Business and are expected to contribute sales of approximately $50 million in 2017. This performance represents an expectation for a continuation of solid and steady demand for the Companys filtration media products, particularly in the European food and beverage and industrial processes end markets. Advanced Water Purification The Companys Advanced Water Purification business is somewhat cyclical in nature and depends on both regulations and the general health of the overall economy. In 2017, the Company expects moderate growth from 2016 due to expected higher demand in late 2017 for ballast water treatment systems (BWTS). The Company believes that global demand for its other water purification products, equipment and service solutions will continue for a variety of applications including drinking water, wastewater, and advanced oxidation. BWTS are used to filter and disinfect the water carried in the ballast tanks of ships to prevent the transfer of organisms from one aquatic ecosystem to another, where such organisms could be potentially harmful. Driving the future demand for BWTS are the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) Final Rule applicable to treating ballast water discharges in the U.S., and the International Maritime Organizations International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (IMO Convention) applicable to treating ballast water discharges internationally. Each regulation requires the management of a ships ballast water, generally through the use of a Type Approved BWTS. The Companys Hyde GUARDIAN ultraviolet (UV) light-based BWTS are one of more than 60 BWTS to have achieved Type Approval under the IMO Convention, and it commenced testing in April 2017 to ready itself to apply for Type Approval under the USCG Final Rule in late 2017. The Company continues to expect to see higher BWTS sales beginning in late 2017. This expectation is due to a continuation of a significantly higher rate of customer inquiries (compared to activity that was being experienced during the first 8 months of 2016) for its BWTS that began following the September 8, 2016 ratification of the IMO Convention which calls for it to enter into force on September 8, 2017 and the USCGs December 2016 granting of its first three BWTS Type Approvals, two of which were for UV light-based systems. The timing and pace of this expected increase in sales will be dependent upon a number of variables including the Companys level of success in completing its USCG testing in 2017 as well as the IMO Convention compliance commencing on the September 8, 2017 effective date. Equipment backlog for the Advanced Water Purification segment was $4.9 million as of March 31, 2017 as compared to $3.7 million as of December 31, 2016.