Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: Overview The Company reported net income of $45.7 million or $0.84 per diluted share for 201 3 , as compared to net income of $23.3 million or $0.41 per diluted share for 2012. Sales declined $14.3 million or 2.5% in 2013, including a negative impact of foreign currency translation of $11.6 million. The Company achieved significant improvement in profitability despite a challenging sales environment in certain markets and the negative impact of a strong U.S. dollar. The Company also utilized its balance sheet to increase value by conducting an open market share repurchase program. In addition, the Companys Board of Directors approved $85.0 million for 2014 capital spending that should increase carbon production capacity and reduce costs. Results of Operations 201 3 Versus 201 2 Consolidated net sales decreased $14.3 million or 2.5% in 2013 as compared to 2012. The total negative impact of foreign currency translation on consolidated net sales was $11.6 million. Net sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment decreased $3.5 million or 0.7% from 2012. The decrease was primarily due to a $9.3 million decline in the Environmental Air market primarily as a result of lower pricing on a single contract for powder activated carbon for mercury removal from electric generating units in the Americas region which totaled $11.7 million. Also contributing to the decline was the $11.5 million negative impact of foreign currency translation. Partially offsetting these declines was the impact of the Companys 2013 price increases, primarily in the Americas region, of $6.6 million as well as higher volume for certain activated carbon products and services in the following markets: Industrial Process of 11%, Environmental Water of 9%, and Potable Water of 7%. The increase in volume for the Industrial Process market was primarily due to higher demand in the Americas and Europe. The increase in the Environmental Water market was related to increased demand as a result of a higher level of environmental remediation projects that were primarily in the U.S. The increase in the Potable Water market was principally as a result of compliance with disinfection byproduct regulations in the U.S. Net sales in the Equipment segment decreased $11.1 million or 16.8% from 2012. The decrease was primarily due to lower sales of ballast water treatment business of $15.5 million. The 2012 period included $12.6 million in sales for four large ballast water treatment system contracts that the Company was not able to equal in 2013 given the effects of delayed ratification of the International Maritime Organization ballast water treatment regulations and other U.S. Coast Guard and Environmental Protection Agency related issues. Also contributing to the decline was $2.9 million of lower sales of ion exchange systems due to lower demand. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase in sales of both traditional carbon adsorption and traditional ultraviolet disinfection systems of $5.2 million and $3.3 million, respectively. The increase in sales for traditional carbon adsorption systems was due to higher demand from municipal drinking water customers for compliance with disinfection byproduct regulations. The increase in sales for traditional ultraviolet systems was a result of one large contract that was awarded in December of 2012 for the supply of the Companys Sentinel systems to the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power. Foreign currency translation effects in the Equipment segment were not significant. Net sales in the Consumer segment increased $0.3 million or 2.6% from 2012. The increase was primarily due to higher demand for activated carbon cloth. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of $0.1 million for the Consumer segment. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation), as a percent of net sales, was 33.0% in 2013 compared to 30.2% in 2012, an increase of 2.8 percentage points. The increase was in the Activated Carbon and Service segment and included the benefits of several of the initiatives related to the Companys cost improvement program. The Company benefited by approximately $5.5 million from cost improvements as a result of the expansion of its Pearl River manufacturing facility. The results of the Companys ongoing product rationalization initiative, which reduced its SKUs by 45%, resulted in approximately $2.6 million of cost savings in 2013. The Company also benefited from a reduction in warehousing costs of approximately $1.0 million as a result of its world-wide effort to consolidate its storage needs. In addition to these initiatives, the impact of price increases, including $6.6 million in the Americas also contributed favorably to 2013 as did the $0.4 million settlement on an insurance claim related to Hurricane Isaac (Refer to Note 17 of the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report). The 2012 period included additional costs of $3.4 million related to the Companys Pearl River facility as a result of delays in a capital project, 24 Table of Contents maintenance issues, and the impact of Hurricane Isaac. The 2012 period also included a $1.7 million write-off of obsolete inventory. Higher coal and coal-related costs also negatively impacted 2012 and were the result of manufacturing costs related to trials of new and different coal types. These trials were necessitated by the termination of a coal contract with a former supplier that occurred during the second quarter of 2012. Partially offsetting the favorability in the Activated Carbon and Service segment in 2013 was an $11.7 million negative impact from pricing related to the aforementioned single contract for mercury removal effective the end of 2012. Both the Equipment and Consumer segments were comparable to 2012. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased by $2.6 million or 9.9% in 2013 as compared to 2012. The increase was due primarily to increased depreciation related to the Companys new Gila Bend, Arizona facility that was placed into service in the second quarter of 2013 as well as for capital improvements at the Companys Pearl River virgin carbon manufacturing facility that were completed in January 2013. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $8.4 million or 9.8% in 2013 as compared to 2012. The decrease was principally due to a decline in employee related expenses of $6.1 million which includes a $2.8 million favorable impact related to a multi-employer pension plan (Refer to additional discussion in Note 12 of the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report). Also contributing to the decline were decreased U.S. healthcare costs of $1.3 million resulting from favorable claims experience in 2013 and other medical benefit program modifications. Employee travel costs also declined by $1.2 million as a result of the Companys cost improvement initiatives. On a segment basis, selling, general and administrative expenses for the Activated Carbon and Service segment declined approximately $8.1 million primarily as a result of the items discussed above. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Equipment and Consumer segments did not materially fluctuate as compared to 2012. Research and development expenses decreased $2.0 million or 24.8% in 2013 as compared to 2012. The decrease was due to lower advanced product testing costs related to both mercury removal from flue gas and the use of activated carbon in ultra capacitors. The Company recorded $0.5 million of restructuring charges in 2013 related to headcount reductions in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. These charges were offset by a pre-tax gain of $0.6 million for the sale of the Companys activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China. The Company recorded $10.2 million of restructuring charges in 2012 which primarily consist of $5.8 million of termination benefits related to a reduction in headcount and a $3.6 million impairment charge for the permanent closure of the Companys Datong, China activated carbon production facility (Refer to additional discussion in Note 2 of the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report). These restructuring charges are within the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Litigation and other contingencies were comparable in 2013 versus 2012. Other expense net decreased $1.1 million or 45.0% in 2013 as compared to 2012. The decrease is primarily as a result of $0.5 million decline in an earn-out liability related to a 2010 acquisition. The provision for income taxes for 2013 was $21.5 million as compared to $14.1 million in 2012. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2013 was 32.0% compared to 37.7% for the year ended December 31, 2012. The 2013 tax rate decreased approximately 5% from the 2012 effective tax rate primarily due to net tax benefits related to the 2013 sale of the Companys Datong, China facility. The 2013 tax rate was reduced 1.2% from the 2012 tax rate due to a state tax credit. Excluding the impact of the aforementioned sale, the 2013 tax rate was negatively impacted by 0.5% related to the mix of income before income tax provision throughout foreign jurisdictions as compared to 2012. 201 2 Versus 201 1 Consolidated net sales increased $20.8 million or 3.8% in 2012 as compared to 2011. The total negative impact of foreign currency translation on consolidated net sales was $7.5 million. 25 Table of Contents Net sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment decreased $0.7 million or 0.2% from 2011. Sales growth in Europe of $7.0 million, primarily in the Potable Water market, was offset by a $7.4 million negative impact of foreign currency translation. Net sales in the Equipment segment increased $19.8 million or 42.7% from 2011. The increase was primarily due to higher revenue recognized for ultraviolet light systems, principally ballast water treatment, which increased 71%. Foreign currency translation effects in the Equipment segment were not significant. Net sales in the Consumer segment increased $1.7 million or 19.7% from 2011. The increase was primarily due to higher demand for activated carbon cloth. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of $0.1 million for the Consumer segment. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation), as a percent of net sales, was 30.2% in 2012 compared to 32.7% in 2011. The 2.5 percentage point decrease was primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. This decline was due to $3.4 million of higher plant maintenance costs primarily as a result of one additional planned major maintenance activity in 2012 as well as significant maintenance costs at the Companys Pearl River facility related to delays in a capital project, maintenance issues, and the impact of Hurricane Isaac. Also contributing to the decline were higher coal and coal-related costs of approximately $3.6 million. Of this amount, coal price increases were $1.5 million and coal related manufacturing issues resulting from the utilization of new and different coal types resulted in increased costs of $2.1 million. In addition, the Companys labor costs also increased by approximately $4.0 million. Both the Equipment and Consumer segments were comparable to 2011. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased by $2.0 million or 8.1% in 2012 as compared to 2011. The increase is primarily related to increased depreciation related to the Companys reactivation facility in Suzhou, China of $0.8 million that was placed into service during 2012. Also contributing to the increase was increased depreciation of $1.0 million related to capital improvements at the Companys Feluy, Belgium and Catlettsburg, Kentucky facilities that were placed into service in 2011 and 2012. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $2.6 million or 2.9% in 2012 as compared to 2011. The decrease was principally due to a decline in legal expense of $2.1 million as a result of fewer legal matters in 2012 and the positive impact of foreign exchange of $1.0 million. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $1.7 million multi-employer pension plan charge (Refer to additional discussion in Note 12 of the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report). The 2011 period included $1.0 million of costs related to the Companys former PreZerve product line. On a segment basis, selling, general and administrative expenses for both the Activated Carbon and Service and Equipment segments were comparable versus 2011. Selling, general and administrative expenses declined approximately $1.0 million for the Consumer segment due to the above mentioned costs related to the former PreZerve product line. Research and development expenses were comparable in 2012 versus 2011. The Company recorded $10.2 million of restructuring charges in 2012 which primarily consist of $5.8 million of termination benefits related to a reduction in headcount and a $3.6 million impairment charge for the permanent closure of the Companys Datong, China activated carbon production facility (Refer to additional discussion in Note 2 of the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report). These restructuring charges are within the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Litigation and other contingencies were comparable in 2012 versus 2011. Other expense net increased $1.2 million or 89.5% in 2012 as compared to 2011. The increase is primarily as a result of $0.4 million of foreign exchange losses due to un-hedged positions. In addition, the 2011 period included $0.4 million of additional license income in the Companys Equipment Segment. The provision for income taxes for 2012 was $14.1 million as compared to $17.2 million in 2011. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2012 was 37.7% compared to 30.4% for the year ended December 31, 2011. The 2012 tax rate increased over the 2011 effective tax rate primarily due to the valuation allowance recorded in 2012 and the uncertain tax position reversal that occurred in 2011. The Company will permanently close its Datong, China facility. The Company has net operating losses and other deferred tax assets related to the Datong facility which it may no longer realize. Therefore, the Company recorded a valuation allowance against these deferred tax assets which increased the 26 Table of Contents 2012 tax rate approximately 1.5% over the 2011 tax rate. Additionally, the Companys 2011 tax rate was reduced from the U.S. statutory rate by 5.8% related primarily to the expiration of the statute of limitations on uncertain tax positions. Working Capital and Liquidity Cash flows provided by operating activities were $66.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to $72.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The $5.9 million decrease was due to unfavorable working capital changes which, in total, were $9.3 million and were primarily related to accounts payable and inventory. These unfavorable changes were partially offset by the additional net income in 2013 versus 2012 as well as lower employee benefit plan provisions of $3.0 million. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $72.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to $53.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The $19.7 million increase was due to favorable working capital changes which were primarily related to inventory. The Company recorded proceeds from the sale of a business of $0.6 million related to the March 2013 sale of its activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China. Credit Agreement On November 6, 2013, the Company entered into a new U.S. Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement replaces the Companys Prior U.S. Credit Facility (Prior Credit Facility). The Credit Agreement provides for a senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Revolver) in an amount up to $225.0 million which expires on November 6, 2018. The Company may request that the Revolver be extended for up to two additional one-year periods. A portion of the Revolver not in excess of $75.0 million shall be available for standby or letters of credit for trade, $15.0 million shall be available for swing loans, and $50.0 million shall be available for loans or letters of credit in certain foreign denominated currencies. The Company may have the option to increase the Revolver in an amount not to exceed $75.0 million with the consent of the Lenders. Availability under the Revolver is conditioned upon various customary conditions. Total availability under the Revolver at December 31, 2013 was $196.6 million after considering outstanding letters of credit and borrowings. The Credit Agreement also provides for senior unsecured delayed draw term loans (Delayed Draw Term Loans) in an aggregate amount up to $75.0 million which expires on November 6, 2020. The Delayed Draw Term Loans are available for two years from the Closing Date. The Company may only request a maximum of three Delayed Draw Term Loans with a minimum borrowing of $15.0 million and no amount repaid may be re-borrowed. Total availability under the Delayed Draw Term Loan at December 31, 2013 was $75.0 million. A quarterly nonrefundable commitment fee is payable by the Company based on the unused availability under the Revolver and the undrawn portion of the Delayed Draw Term Loans and is currently equal to 0.15%. The interest rate on amounts owed under the Revolver and Delayed Draw Term Loans will be, at the Companys option, either (i) a fluctuating Base Rate based on the highest of (A) the prime rate announced from time to time by the Agent, (B) the daily federal funds open rate plus 0.50% and (C) a daily LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, (ii) a rate based on the published rated offered by leading banks in the London interbank deposit market (or other foreign country for non-Euro or U.S. denominated currencies) divided by a number equal to 1.00 minus the applicable LIBOR Reserve Percentage comparable borrowings and reserve requirements prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States, in each case, plus an applicable margin based on the Companys leverage ratio as set forth in the Credit Agreement. The interest rate per annum on outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2013 ranged from 1.17% to 3.25%. The Company incurred issuance costs of $0.7 million for the Credit Agreement which were deferred and are being amortized over the term of the Revolver and Delayed Draw Term Loan facilities. Total outstanding borrowings under the Revolver were $26.3 million at December 31, 2013 and are shown as long-term debt within the consolidated balance sheet. There were no outstanding borrowings under the Delayed Draw Term Loan at December 31, 2013. The borrowings and repayments are presented on a gross basis within the Companys consolidated statement of cash flows. 27 Table of Contents Certain of the Companys Domestic Subsidiaries unconditionally guarantee all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type. The Company is permitted to pay dividends so long as there remains $50.0 million of availability under the Credit Agreement and debt is less than or equal to 2.75x earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. In addition, the Credit Agreement includes limitations on the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to indebtedness, additional liens, disposition of assets or subsidiaries, and transactions with affiliates. The Company must comply with certain financial covenants including minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio as defined within the Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of December 31, 2013. The Credit Agreement also provides for customary events of default, including failure to pay principal or interest when due, breach of representations and warranties, certain insolvency or receivership events affecting the Company and its subsidiaries and a change in control of the Company. If an event of default occurs, the Lenders will be under no further obligations to make loans or issue Letters of Credit. Upon the occurrence of certain events of default, all outstanding obligations of the Company automatically will become immediately due and payable, and other events of default will allow the Agent to declare all or any portion of the outstanding obligations of the Company to be immediately due and payable. Prior Credit Facility The Companys Prior Credit Facility was terminated on November 6, 2013 and as a result, approximately $0.1 million of the previously deferred issuance costs were written off. The Prior Credit Facility was due to expire on May 8, 2014 and contained a revolving credit capacity of $125.0 million. Availability under the Prior Credit Facility was dependent upon various customary conditions. A quarterly nonrefundable commitment fee was payable by the Company based on the unused availability under the Amended Credit Agreement and was equal to 0.25%. Total availability under the Prior Credit Facility at December 31 , 2012 was $122.8 million after considering outstanding letters of credit and borrowings. The interest rate on amounts owed under the Prior Credit Facility were, at the Companys option, either (i) a fluctuating base rate based on the highest of (A) the prime rate announced from time to time by the lenders, (B) the rate announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on that day as being the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions arranged by federal funds brokers on the previous trading day plus 3.00% or (C) a daily LIBOR rate plus 2.75%, or (ii) LIBOR-based borrowings in one, two, three, or six month increments at the applicable LIBOR rate plus 1.25%. A margin could have been added to the applicable interest rate based on the Companys leverage ratio. The interest rate per annum on outstanding borrowings as of December 31 , 2012 ranged from 1.25% to 1.50%. Total outstanding borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility were $44.3 million at December 31 , 2012 and are shown as long-term debt within the consolidated balance sheet. The borrowings and repayments are presented on a gross basis within the Companys consolidated statement of cash flows. The Prior Credit Facility contained customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type, including limitations on the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to indebtedness, liens, guaranties, loans and investments, dividends, mergers and acquisitions, dispositions of assets and transactions with affiliates. The Company had to comply with certain financial covenants including a minimum interest coverage ratio, maximum leverage ratio, and minimum net worth, as defined within the Prior Credit Facility. The Prior Credit Facility also provided for customary events of default, including failure to pay principal or interest when due, failure to comply with covenants, the fact that any representation or warranty made by the Company was false or misleading in any material respect, certain insolvency or receivership events affecting the Company and its subsidiaries and a change in control of the Company. If an event of default occurred, the lenders were under no further obligation to make loans or issue letters of credit. Upon the occurrence of certain events of default, all outstanding obligations of the Company automatically would have become immediately due and payable, and other events of default would allow the lenders to declare all or any portion of the outstanding obligations of the Company to be immediately due and payable. Japanese Loans Calgon Carbon Japan (CCJ) maintains a Term Loan Agreement (the Japanese Term Loan) and a Working Capital Loan Agreement (the Japanese Working Capital Loan). The Company is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor of CCJs 28 Table of Contents obligations and the Company permitted CCJ to grant a security interest and continuing lien in certain of its assets, including inventory and accounts receivable, to secure its obligations under both loan agreements. The Japanese Term Loan provided for a principal amount of 722.0 million Japanese Yen, or $7.7 million at inception. This loan matured on March 31, 2013 and was repaid. CCJ signed an agreement on May 10, 2013 to renew the Japanese Term Loan, which provides for borrowings up to 1.0 billion Japanese Yen, and bears interest based on the Uncollateralized Overnight Call Rate plus 0.6%, which totaled 0.7% per annum at December 31, 2013. This loan matures on May 10, 2017. The borrowings and repayments are presented on a gross basis within the Companys consolidated statements of cash flows. At December 31, 2013, CCJ had 600 million Japanese Yen or $5.7 million outstanding and recorded as long-term debt within the consolidated balance sheet. At December 31, 2012, CCJ had 82.0 million Japanese Yen or $1.0 million outstanding and recorded as short-term debt within the consolidated balance sheet. The Japanese Working Capital Loan provides for borrowings up to 1.5 billion Japanese Yen, and bears interest based on the Short-term Prime Rate, which was 1.475% per annum at December 31, 2013. This loan matured on March 31, 2013 and was renewed until March 31, 2014. Borrowings and repayments under the Japanese Working Capital Loan have generally occurred in short term intervals, as needed, in order to ensure adequate liquidity while minimizing outstanding borrowings. The borrowings and repayments are presented on a gross basis within the Companys consolidated statements of cash flows. At December 31, 2013, CCJ had 200 million Japanese Yen or $1.9 million outstanding and recorded as short-term debt within the consolidated balance sheet. At December 31, 2012, CCJ had 1.6 billion Japanese Yen or $18.6 million outstanding and recorded as short-term debt within the consolidated balance sheet. Share Repurchases In November 2012, the Companys Board of Directors authorized an accelerated share repurchase of Company common stock under a share repurchase program (the Program). On November 20, 2012, the Company paid a purchase price of $50 million and initially received 3,276,002 shares upon inception of the Program. The actual number of shares that the Company repurchased under the Program was determined based on a discount to the arithmetic mean of the volume-weighted average prices (VWAP) of the Companys common stock for each observation date over the course of applicable calculation period which ended on September 30, 2013. The actual number of shares repurchased was 340,334 shares less than the number of shares previously delivered, and as a result, the Company sold back that many shares to the counterparty in the form of a private placement of unregistered securities. The Companys outstanding common shares used to calculate earnings per share were reduced by the number of repurchased shares pursuant to the Program as they are delivered to the Company, and the $50 million purchase price was recorded as a reduction in stockholders equity upon its payment. The Company increased its diluted shares outstanding to reflect the 340,334 shares that were sold back in the form of the private placement (Refer to additional discussion in Note 10 of the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report). During the period January 1, 2014 through February 12, 2014, the Company repurchased an additional 781,900 shares at a total cost of $15.9 million. Subsequent to these repurchases, the Companys remaining authorization to repurchase its common stock is approximately $131.1 million. In December 2013, the Companys Board of Directors approved an increase in the overall value of shares authorized for repurchase under its share repurchase program (the Program) to $150 million, excluding the November 2012 accelerated share repurchase. Subsequently, the Company initiated an open market share repurchase program whereby 146,800 shares were repurchased in 2013 at an average price per share of $20.37. These repurchases were funded primarily from operating cash flows and the shares are initially held as treasury stock (Refer to additional discussion in Note 10 of the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report). Contractual Obligations The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. At December 31, 201 3 , the weighted average effective interest rate applicable to the Companys borrowings was approximately 2.5%. The Companys long-term borrowings totaled $32.1 million at December 31, 2013. In accordance with its funding policy, the Company is also required to make minimum funding contributions to its pension plans which are estimated at $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 201 4 . The following table represents the significant contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments of the Company as of December 31, 201 3 . 29 Table of Contents Payments due by period (Dollars in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Short-term debt $ 2,172 $ 2,172 $ $ $ Long-term debt 32,114 32,114 Interest 1,947 428 807 712 Operating leases 19,621 6,878 7,461 3,639 1,643 Unconditional purchase obligations(1) 138,782 41,772 55,249 39,597 2,164 Total contractual cash obligations $ 194,636 $ 51,250 $ 63,517 $ 76,062 $ 3,807 (1) Primarily for the purchase of raw materials, transportation, and information systems services. The long-term tax payable of $4.1 million, pertaining to the tax liability related to the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, has been excluded from the above table due to the fact that the Company is unable to determine the period in which the liability will be resolved. The Company does not have any special-purpose entities. The Company maintains qualified defined benefit pension plans (the Qualified Plans), which cover certain non-union and union employees in the United States and Europe. The Companys pension expense for all pension plans approximated $ 2.5 million (including a $1.1 million reduction in a multi-employer plan and a $0.3 million pension settlement charge) and $ 6.8 million (including a $1.4 million pension settlement charge and a $1.7 million multi-employer plan charge) for the years ended December 31, 201 3 and 201 2 , respectively. The Company expects to record $0.6 million of pension benefit in 2014. The fair value of the Companys Qualified Plan assets has increased from $116.4 million at December 31, 201 2 to $ 129.4 million at December 31, 201 3 . The Pension Protection Act, passed into law in August 2006, prescribes a new methodology for determining the minimum amount that must be contributed to defined benefit pension plans which began in 2008. During the year ended December 31, 201 3 , the Company funded its Qualified Plans with $4.7 million in contributions. The Company expects that it will be required, in accordance with its funding policy, to fund the Qualified Plans with approximately $3.0 million in contributions for the year ending December 31, 2014. The Company may make additional contributions to its Qualified Plans in 2014 beyond the required funding. Additional voluntary contributions would be dependent upon, among other things, the Companys ongoing operating results and liquidity. The Company did not declare or pay any dividends in 201 3 . Dividend declaration and payout are at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Future dividends will depend on the Companys earnings, cash flows, capital investment plans to pursue long-term growth opportunities, and share repurchases, if any. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements except for the operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations disclosed above. Capital Expenditures and Investments Capital expenditures were $30.3 million in 201 3 , $60.7 million in 2012, and $72.1 million in 2011. Expenditures for 201 3 included $26.0 million for improvements to manufacturing facilities including approximately $8.6 million related to the final construction of the Gila Bend, Arizona facility. Expenditures for 201 2 included $50.5 million for improvements to manufacturing facilities including approximately $13.4 million related to the construction of the Gila Bend, Arizona facility and $13.4 million related to the capacity expansion at the Pearlington, Mississippi facility. Expenditures for 201 1 included $61.0 million for improvements to manufacturing facilities including approximately $22.8 million related to the capacity expansion at the Feluy, Belgium facility and $10.2 million related to the construction of the Suzhou, China facility. Capital expenditures for 201 4 are currently projected to be approximately $85.0 million. The aforementioned expenditures are expected to be funded by operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings. Proceeds for sales of property, plant and equipment were not significant in 201 3 or 201 2 . Proceeds from the sale of business were $0.6 million in 2013 and related to the sale of the Companys activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China (Refer to Note 2 of the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report). 30 Table of Contents The Company received $1.7 million and $0.9 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively, of proceeds related to government grants in both the U.S. and Europe. In 2011, the Company received a one-time government grant of approximately $2.2 million related to the construction of its Suzhou, China reactivation facility. (Refer to Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report). Cash and cash equivalents include $27.6 million and $16.0 million held by the Companys foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Generally, cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries are not readily available for use in the United States without adverse tax consequences. The Companys principal sources of liquidity are its cash flows from its operating activities or borrowings directly from its lines of credit. The Company does not believe the level of its non-U.S. cash position will have an adverse effect on working capital needs, planned growth, repayment of maturing debt, or benefit plan funding. The Company currently expects that cash from operating activities plus cash balances and available external financing will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months. The cash needs of each of the Companys reporting segments are principally covered by the segments operating cash flow on a standalone basis. Any additional needs will be funded by cash on hand or borrowings under the Companys Revolving Credit Facility, Delayed Draw Term Loan, Japanese Working Capital Loan, or other credit facilities. Specifically, the Equipment and Consumer segments historically have not required extensive capital expenditures; therefore, the Company believes that operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings will adequately support each of the segments cash needs. Other Carbon Imports General Anti-Dumping Background: On March 8, 2006, the Company and another U.S. producer of activated carbon (collectively the Petitioners) formally requested that the United States Department of Commerce investigate unfair pricing of certain thermally activated carbon imported from the Peoples Republic of China. On March 2, 2007, the Commerce Department published its final determination (subsequently amended) finding that imports of the subject merchandise from China were being unfairly priced, or dumped, and that anti-dumping duties should be imposed to offset the amount of the unfair pricing. Following a finding by the U.S. International Trade Commission that the domestic industry was injured by unfairly traded imports of activated carbon from China, an anti-dumping order imposing these tariffs was issued by the U.S. Department of Commerce and was published in the Federal Register on April 27, 2007. All imports from China remain subject to the order. Importers of subject activated carbon from China are required to make cash deposits of estimated anti-dumping duties at the time the goods are entered into the United States customs territory. Final assessment of duties and duty deposits are subject to revision based on annual retrospective reviews conducted by the Commerce Department. The Company is a domestic producer, exporter from China (through its wholly-owned subsidiary Calgon Carbon (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.), and a U.S. importer of the activated carbon that is subject to the anti-dumping order. As such, the Companys involvement in the Commerce Departments proceedings is both as a domestic producer (a petitioner) and as a foreign exporter (a respondent). The Companys role as an importer, which has in the past (and may in the future) required it to pay anti-dumping duties, results in a contingent liability related to the final amount of tariffs that are ultimately assessed on the imported product following the Commerce Departments annual review of relevant shipments and calculation of the anti-dumping duties due. The amount of estimated anti-dumping tariffs payable on goods imported into the United States is subject to review and retroactive adjustment based on the actual amount of dumping that is found on entries made during a given annual period. As a result of proceedings before the Commerce Department that concluded in November 2013, the Company is currently required to post a duty of $0.073 per pound when importing activated carbon from Calgon Carbon (Tianjin) into the United States. As noted above, however, the Companys ultimate assessment rate and future cash deposit rate on such imports could change in the future, as a result of on-going proceedings before the Commerce Department. As part of its standard process, the Commerce Department conducts annual reviews of sales made to the first unaffiliated U.S. customer, typically over the prior 12-month period. These reviews will be conducted for at least five years 31 Table of Contents subsequent to a determination in February 2013 finding that the anti-dumping duty order should remain in effect, and can result in changes to the anti-dumping tariff rate (either increasing or reducing the rate) applicable to any foreign exporter. Revision of tariff rates has two effects. First, it will alter the actual amount of tariffs that U.S. Customs and Border Protection (Customs) will collect for the period reviewed, by either collecting additional duties above those deposited with Customs by the importer at the time of entry or refunding a portion of the duties deposited at the time of importation to reflect a decline in the margin of dumping. If the actual amount of tariffs owed increases, Customs will require the U.S. importer to pay the difference, plus interest. Conversely, if the tariff rate decreases, any difference will be refunded by Customs to the U.S. importer with interest. Second, the revised rate becomes the cash deposit rate applied to future entries, and can either increase or decrease the amount of duty deposits an importer will be required to post at the time of importation. There have been six periods of review since the tariffs began. Periods of Review I and II related to the periods that ended on March 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively, and are final and not subject to further review or appeal. Period of Review III: On April 1, 2010, the Commerce Department published a formal notice allowing parties to request a third annual administrative review of the anti-dumping duty order covering the period April 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010 (POR III). On October 31, 2011, the Commerce Department published the results of its review of POR III. Based on the POR III results, the Companys ongoing duty deposit rate was adjusted to zero. The Company recorded a receivable of $1.1 million reflecting expected refunds for duty deposits made during POR III as a result of the announced decrease in the POR III assessment rate. The Commerce Department continued to assign cooperative respondents involved in POR III a deposit rate of $0.127 per pound. In early December 2011, several separate rate respondents appealed the Commerce Departments final results of POR III. On August 15, 2013 the Court of International Trade (the Court) issued its opinion in the appeal of the POR III review results. The Court remanded the case back to the Commerce Department to reconsider certain surrogate values selected by the Department to value raw materials consumed by the respondents to produce steam activated carbon in China. The Court also instructed the Department to reconsider the separate rate applied to the non-responding companies and the use of per-unit rates for one respondent. On January 9, 2014, the Commerce Department filed its remand redetermination with the U.S. Court of International Trade. In its redetermination, the Commerce Department continued to calculate a zero duty for imports of steam activated carbon entered into the United States by the Company during POR III. In addition, the Commerce Department revised its earlier determination and assigned a zero margin as a separate rate to several Chinese producers/exporters of steam activated carbon to the United States that were not subjected to an individual investigation. Those separate rate exporters had previously been assigned a margin of approximately $0.127 per pound. The Company plans to contest this aspect of the Commerce Departments redetermination and will be submitting comments to the Court of International Trade in that regard. A decision from the Court addressing the Commerce Departments redetermination is expected in the third or fourth quarter of 2014. Period of Review IV: On April 1, 2011, the Commerce Department published a formal notice allowing parties to request a fourth annual administrative review of the anti-dumping duty order covering the period April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2011 (POR IV). On November 9, 2012, the Commerce Department published the final results of its review of POR IV. Specifically, the Commerce Department calculated anti-dumping margins for the mandatory respondents it examined ranging from $0.20 per pound (Jacobi Carbons AB and its affiliates) to $0.96 per pound (Ningxia Guanghua Cherishmet Activated Carbon Co., Ltd. and its affiliates), and it calculated an anti-dumping margin of $0.47 per pound for the cooperative, separate rate respondents whose shipments of activated carbon to the United States were not individually reviewed. The Commerce Department also calculated a zero anti-dumping margin for Datong Juqiang Activated Carbon Co., Ltd. The Company, as a Chinese exporter and a U.S. importer, elected not to participate as a respondent in this administrative review. By not participating as a respondent in the review, the Companys tariff deposits made at a rate of 14.51% during POR IV became final and are not subject to further adjustment. The Companys ongoing deposit rate continued to be zero, as a result of the company-specific rate calculated in POR III. Appeals challenging the Commerce Departments final results for POR IV were commenced before the U.S. Court of International Trade by Jacobi Carbons AB, Ningxia Guanghua Cherishment Activated Carbon Co., Ltd. and its affiliates; Tangshan Solid Carbon Co., Ltd.; Carbon Activated Corporation and Car Go Worldwide, Inc.; and Shanxi Industry Technology Trading Co., Ltd. The Company expects a decision from the Court on these appeals during the first quarter of 2014. Irrespective of whether the Court directs further analysis by the Commerce Department or affirms the agencys determination, the Company expects that this litigation will not directly impact its operations. 32 Table of Contents Period of Review V: On April 2, 2012, the Commerce Department published a formal notice allowing parties to request a fifth annual administrative review of the anti-dumping duty order covering the period April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2012 (POR V). On November 26, 2013, the Commerce Department published the final results of its review of POR V. The Commerce Department calculated final antidumping duty margins for the two mandatory respondents, Jacobi Carbons AB and Ningxia Huahui Activated Carbon Co., of $0.01/lb. and $0.18/lb., respectively. Based on these antidumping margins, the Commerce Department calculated a margin of $0.07/lb. for cooperative exporters that were not individually reviewed but were found eligible to receive a separate rate. Albemarle Corporation, which was determined by the Commerce Department to be a domestic wholesaler of activated carbon, requested a review of Calgon Carbon (Tianjin). As a result, Calgon Carbon (Tianjin) was assigned the separate rate respondent margin of $0.07/lb. On December 26, 2013, Albemarle Corporation and Ningxia Huahui Activated Carbon Co., Ltd. filed a summons with the U.S. Court of International Trade commencing a challenge of the Commerce Departments final results for POR V. On January 30, 2014 Albemarle Corporation and Ningxia Huahui Activated Carbon Co., Ltd elected not to pursue their appeal challenging the final results of the fifth administrative review. Because there is no further litigation challenging the final results of the fifth administrative review, U.S. Customs will proceed to liquidate the affected entries, assessing antidumping duties at the rates calculated in the final results. Sunset Review: In March 2012, the Commerce Department and U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) initiated proceedings as part of a five-year sunset review to evaluate whether the anti-dumping order should be continued for an additional five years. The Company, and two other U. S. producers of activated carbon, participated in the review to support continuation of the anti-dumping order for an additional five years. The Company maintained that the continuation of the anti-dumping order was appropriate as the Commerce Department has determined that Chinese producers and exporters have continued and, absent continuation of the anti-dumping order, will in the future continue to sell activated carbon in the United States at unfairly low prices. This is demonstrated by the positive anti-dumping duty margins and deposit rates determined during the various annual reviews conducted by the Commerce Department since the anti-dumping order took effect in April 2007. The Company asserted that the disciplining effect of the order played an important role in maintaining fair market pricing of the activated carbon market overall. Without the anti-dumping order in place, the Company argued that Chinese producers and exporters would resume or increase dumping of certain thermally activated carbon in the United States. Since the anti-dumping order was published, the Company has reduced its imports of covered activated carbon products from China and has increased production of activated carbon in the United States. On June 6, 2012, the Commerce Department published in the Federal Register its final results in an expedited sunset review, and determined that absent continuation of the anti-dumping order dumping of Chinese activated carbon in the United States would be likely to continue or recur. As a result, it determined the order should be continued for an additional five years. On June 4, 2012 the ITC voted unanimously to conduct a full review of the anti-dumping order. As a result, the agency utilized a process similar to its original injury investigation, where the agency distributed detailed questionnaires to gather information for its investigation from domestic producers, foreign producers, U.S. importers, and purchasers, and conducted a hearing on December 18, 2012. The Company and the two other U.S. producers of activated carbon, as well as a U.S. importer of activated carbon, participated in the hearing. Based on the information gathered by the agency during its review, the ITC reached a unanimous affirmative determination on February 8, 2013, voting to continue the anti-dumping order for an additional five years. The Commerce Department published a notice in the Federal Register on March 18, 2013, stating that the anti-dumping order will be continued for an additional five years. Period of Review VI: On April 2, 2013, the Commerce Department published a formal notice allowing parties to request a sixth annual administrative review of the anti-dumping duty order covering the period April 1, 2012 through March 31, 2013 (POR VI). Requests for an administrative review were submitted to the Commerce Department in April 2013. On June 26, 2013, the Commerce Department announced its selection of Jacobi Carbons AB and Ningxia Guanghua Cherishmet Activated Carbon Co., Ltd. (and its affiliates) as the two mandatory respondents for POR VI. Albemarle Corporation has requested a review of Calgon Carbon (Tianjin) for POR VI. The analysis of POR VI began in the third quarter of 2013 and the preliminary results of the Commerce Departments review of POR VI are anticipated to be announced in late April or early May of 2014. Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act Distributions: Pursuant to the Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act (CDSOA) of 2000 (repealed effective February 8, 2006), as an affected domestic producer, the Company is eligible to apply for a share of the distributions of certain tariffs collected on imports of subject merchandise from China that entered 33 Table of Contents the United States from October 11, 2006 to September 30, 2007. As a result, the Company is eligible to receive a distribution of duties collected on imports of certain activated carbon that entered the United States during a portion of POR I. In June 2013, June 2012, and July 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company applied for such distributions which are typically made in the fourth quarter of each calendar year. There were no additional amounts received by the Company for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. In November 2009 and December 2008, the Company received distributions of approximately $0.8 million and $0.2 million, respectively, which reflected 59.57% of the total amount of duties then available and distributed by Customs in connection with the anti-dumping order on certain activated carbon from China. CDSOA distributions related to POR I imports were on hold while the POR I final results for certain exporters were under appeal. All POR I appeals were subsequently resolved and Customs issued liquidation instructions in October 2011 for activated carbon entries affected by the appeal process involving POR I. The Company received $1.8 million in December 2012 related to the CDSOA distributions of which $1.5 million was reflected within the Companys statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2012. In December 2013, the Company received $0.1 million in connection with the CDSOA distributions for fiscal year 2013. This amount was equal to 59.57 percent of the duties distributed by CBP under the anti-dumping order on certain thermally activated carbon from China. The Company does not anticipate any further material CDSOA distributions in future years. Critical Accounting Policies Management of the Company has evaluated the accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements and related footnotes and believes the policies to be reasonable and appropriate. The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make judgments, estimates, and assumptions regarding uncertainties that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Management uses historical experience and all available information to make these judgments and estimates, and actual results will inevitably differ from those estimates and assumptions that are used to prepare the Companys financial statements at any given time. Despite these inherent limitations, management believes that Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) and the financial statements and related footnotes provide a meaningful and fair perspective of the Company. The following are the Companys critical accounting policies impacted by managements judgments, assumptions, and estimates. Management believes that the application of these policies on a consistent basis enables the Company to provide the users of the financial statements with useful and reliable information about the Companys operating results and financial condition. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue and related costs when goods are shipped or services are rendered to customers provided that ownership and risk of loss have passed to the customer, the price to the customer is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Revenue for major equipment projects is recognized under the percentage of completion method. The Companys major equipment projects generally have a long project life cycle from bid solicitation to project completion. The nature of the contracts are generally fixed price with milestone billings. The Company recognizes revenue for these projects based on the fixed sales prices multiplied by the percentage of completion. In applying the percentage of completion method, a projects percent complete as of any balance sheet date is computed as the ratio of total costs incurred to date divided by the total estimated costs at completion. As changes in the estimates of total costs at completion and/or estimated total losses on projects are identified, appropriate earnings adjustments are recorded during the period that the change or loss is identified. The Company has a history of making reasonably dependable estimates of costs at completion on contracts that follow the percentage of completion method; however, due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual project costs at completion could vary from their estimates. The principal components of costs include material, direct labor, subcontracts, and allocated indirect costs. Indirect costs primarily consist of administrative labor and associated operating expenses, which are allocated to the respective projects on actual hours charged to the project utilizing a standard hourly rate. 34 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Identifiable intangible assets acquired in business combinations are recorded based on their fair values at the date of acquisition. In accordance with guidance within Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350 Intangibles Goodwill and Other, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but must be evaluated for impairment. None of the Companys identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill have indefinite lives. The Company has elected to perform the annual impairment test of its goodwill, as required, on December 31 of each year by initially comparing the fair value of each of the Companys reporting units to their related carrying values. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company performs an additional step to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by first allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of the unit and then computing the excess of the units fair value over the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, such excess represents the amount of goodwill impairment, and the Company recognizes such impairment accordingly. Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flow and other valuation methodologies that are based on projections of the amounts and timing of future revenues and cash flows, assumed discount rates and other assumptions as deemed appropriate. The Company also considers such factors as historical performance, anticipated market conditions, operating expense trends and capital expenditure requirements. The Company has six reporting units for purposes of goodwill evaluation. These reporting units consist of (1) the Activated Carbon and Service segment which is segregated into two regional reporting units, the Americas and Europe, (2) the Equipment segment which is segregated by technology (a) traditional carbon adsorption, (b) ultra violet light, (c) ion exchange, and (3) the Consumer segment which includes the charcoal cloth reporting unit. The fair value of the Companys reporting units substantially exceeds the carrying value of its goodwill at December 31, 2013. The Companys identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill have finite lives. Certain of these intangible assets, such as customer relationships, are amortized using an accelerated methodology while others, such as patents, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. In addition, intangible assets with finite lives are evaluated for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable, as prescribed by ASC 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment. Pensions The Company maintains Qualified Plans which cover certain union and non-union employees in the United States and Europe. Pension expense, which totaled $ 2.5 million in 2013 (including a $1.1 million reduction in a multi-employer pension plan) and $ 6.8 million in 201 2 (including a $1.4 million U.S. pension settlement charge and a $1.7 million multi-employer pension charge) , is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including expected long-term rates of return on the Companys Qualified Plans assets, which range from 4.91% to 7.75%. In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumption, the Company evaluated input from its investment advisors, including their review of asset class return expectations as well as long-term inflation assumptions. The Company also considered historical returns on asset classes, investment mix, and investment manager performance. The expected long-term return on the U.S. Qualified Plans assets is based on an asset allocation assumption of approximately 52% with equity securities, 43% with fixed-income securities, and 5% with other investments. The European Qualified Plans assets are based on an asset allocation assumption of approximately 34% with equity securities, 52% with fixed-income securities, and 14% with other investments. The Company regularly reviews its asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. The Company will continue to evaluate its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust as necessary. The discount rate that the Company utilizes for its Qualified Plans to determine pension obligations is based on a review of long-term bonds that receive one of the two highest ratings given by a recognized rating agency. The discount rate determined on this basis has increased from a range of 3 .92% to 3.95 % at December 31, 201 2 to a range of 3 .92% to 4.88 % at December 31, 201 3 . The Company estimates that it will record a pension benefit for the Qualified Plans that will approximate $0.6 million in 2014. Future actual pension expense will depend on future investment performance, funding levels, changes in discount rates and various other factors related to the populations participating in its Qualified Plans. 35 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical one percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical Rate Increase (Decrease) U.S. Plans European Plans (Dollars in thousands) (1%) 1% (1%) 1% Discount rate Pension liabilities at December 31, 201 3 $ 14,402 $ (12,600 ) $ 8,371 $ (6,532 ) Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 2013 $ 983 $ (1,274 ) $ 322 $ (129 ) Indexation(1) Pension liabilities at December 31, 201 3 $ $ $ (3,161 ) $ 4,196 Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 201 3 $ $ $ (182 ) $ 351 Expected return on plan assets Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 201 3 $ 859 $ (859 ) $ 261 $ (262 ) Compensation Pension liabilities at December 31, 201 3 $ (939 ) $ 939 $ (730 ) $ 1,007 Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 201 3 $ (235 ) $ 235 $ (148 ) $ 204 (1) Pension indexation related to the Companys German Qualified Plan is regulated by German pension law. The law dictates that a pension that is already in payment must be adjusted for inflation every 3 years which is measured by the published German price index for the same time interval. Pension indexation related to the Companys UK Chemviron Plan is based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) in the UK . For this plan, the index is capped at 5% per annum for pensions accrued prior to April 6, 2005 and is capped at 2.5% per annum for pensions accrued after April 5, 2005. For purposes of the Companys Sutcliffe Speakman plan, the indexation is fixed at 3% per annum for pensions accrued prior to 1997 and in line with the Retail Price Index (RPI) for pensions accrued after 1996. For those pensions accrued from 1997 to July 31, 2005, the index is subject to a minimum of 3% per annum and a maximum of 5% per annum. For those pensions accrued after July 31, 2005, the index is capped at 2.5% per annum. Income Taxes During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining the Companys annual effective tax rate and in evaluating tax positions. The Company utilizes guidance within ASC 740 Income Taxes regarding the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. This guidance contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Although the Company believes it has adequately reserved for its uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. The Company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the refinement of an estimate, or a lapse of a tax statute. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related penalties and net interest. The Company is subject to varying statutory tax rates in the countries where it conducts business. Fluctuations in the mix of the Companys income between countries will result in changes to the Companys overall effective tax rate. The Company recognizes benefits associated with foreign and domestic net operating loss and credit carryforwards when the Company believes that it is more likely than not that its future taxable income in the relevant tax jurisdictions will be sufficient to enable the realization of the tax benefits. As of December 31, 201 3 , the Company had recorded total deferred tax assets of $32.8 million, of which $5.5 million represents tax benefits resulting from $1.1 million of unused foreign tax credits, $2.0 million of net operating losses, $1.6 million of state tax credits, and a capital loss carryover of $0.8 million. Approximately $0.8 million of the $2.0 million of operating loss carryovers will expire in 2017 and 2018. State operating loss carryforwards of $0.9 million, net, expire from 2014 to 2033 of which approximately 88% will not expire before 2020. The Company periodically reviews the need for a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets and recognizes these deferred tax assets to the extent that realization is more likely than not. Based upon a review of earnings history and trends, forecasted earnings and the relevant expiration of carryforwards, the Company believes that the valuation allowances provided are appropriate. At December 31, 2013, the Company has recorded a valuation allowance of approximately $1.0 million related to a domestic capital loss carryover and a state tax credit. Approximately 86% of the Companys deferred tax assets, or $28.2 million, represent temporary differences associated with pensions, accruals, and inventories. Approximately 82% of the Companys deferred tax liabilities of $39.1 36 Table of Contents million at December 31, 201 3 relate to property, plant and equipment. These temporary differences will reverse in the future due to the natural realization of temporary differences between annual book and tax reporting. The Company believes that the deferred tax liabilities generally will impact taxable income of the same character (ordinary income), timing, and jurisdiction as the deferred tax assets. Litigation The Company is involved in various asserted and unasserted legal claims. An estimate is made to accrue for a loss contingency relating to any of these legal claims if it is probable that a liability was incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because of the subjective nature inherent in assessing the outcome of legal claims and because the potential that an adverse outcome in a legal claim could have a material impact on the Companys legal position or results of operations, such estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates. Legal fees associated with defending these various lawsuits and claims are expensed when incurred. The Company will continue to evaluate all legal matters as additional information becomes available. Reference is made to Note 17 of the Companys consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a discussion of litigation and contingencies. Long-Lived Assets The Company evaluates long-lived assets under the provisions of ASC 360 Property, Plant, and Equipment, which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment of long-lived assets, and for disposal of long-lived assets. For assets to be held and used, the Company groups a long-lived asset or assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. An impairment loss for an asset group reduces only the carrying amounts of a long-lived asset or assets of the group being evaluated. The loss is allocated to the long-lived assets of the group on a pro-rata basis using the relative carrying amounts of those assets, except that the loss allocated to an individual long-lived asset of the group does not reduce the carrying amount of that asset below its fair value whenever that fair value is determinable without undue cost and effort. Estimates of future cash flows used to test the recoverability of a long-lived asset group include only the future cash flows that are directly associated with and that are expected to arise as a direct result of the use and eventual disposition of the asset group. New Accounting Pronouncements In January 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU No. 2013-01, Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets or Liabilities, or ASU No. 2013-01. ASU 2013-01 clarifies the scope of ASU No. 2011-11, Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities, or ASU 2011-11. ASU 2011-11 requires an entity to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of its financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on its financial position. Entities are required to disclose both gross and net information for these instruments. Both ASU 2013-01 and ASU 2011-11 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods within those annual periods. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2013. Please refer to Note 16 for the required annual disclosure. In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU, No. 2013-02, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reporting of Amounts Reclassified out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, or ASU No. 2013-02. ASU 2013-02 requires an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component. In addition, an entity is required to present, either on the face of the statement where net income is presented or in the notes, significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net income but only if the amount reclassified is required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified to net income. For amounts that are not required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income, an entity is required to cross-reference to other disclosures required under U.S. GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. ASU 2013-02 is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2012. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2013. Please refer to Note 14 and the Companys consolidated statements of comprehensive income for required annual disclosure. In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU, No. 2013-04, Liabilities (Topic 405): Obligations Resulting from Joint and Several Liability Arrangements for Which the Total Amount of the Obligation is Fixed at the Reporting Date, or ASU No. 2013-04. ASU 2013-04 requires an entity to measure obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements for which the total amount of the obligation is fixed at the reporting date, as the sum of the amount the reporting entity agreed 37 Table of Contents to pay on the basis of its arrangement among its co-obligors and any additional amount the reporting entity expects to pay on behalf of its co-obligors. ASU 2013-04 also requires the nature and amount of the obligation as well as other information about those obligations to be disclosed. ASU 2013-04 is effective for fiscal and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013 and should be applied retrospectively. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU, No. 2013-10, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Inclusion of the Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate (or Overnight Index Swap Rate) as a Benchmark Interest Rate for Hedge Accounting Purposes, or ASU No. 2013-10. ASU 2013-10 permits the Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate (OIS) to be used as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes, in addition to U.S. Treasury and LIBOR. ASU 2013-10 also removes the restriction on using different benchmark rates for similar hedges. ASU 2013-10 is effective prospectively for qualifying new or redesignated hedging relationships entered into on or after July 17, 2013. The adoption of this ASU has not had a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU, No. 2013-11, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists, or ASU No. 2013-11. ASU 2013-11 requires that an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, should be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward. To the extent one of these items is not available at the reporting date; the unrecognized tax benefit should be presented in the financial statements as a liability and should not be combined with deferred tax assets. ASU 2013-11 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013 and should be applied prospectively to all unrecognized tax benefits that exist at the effective date. Retrospective application is permitted. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Outlook Activated Carbon and Service The Company continues to estimate that for the period 2012 through 2017, the world-wide activated carbon market will increase at a compound annual growth rate of 10.8%. The Companys activated carbon and service sales volume for 2013 increased over 2012. Sales volume growth has come from several sources including the ongoing impacts of environmental regulations as discussed below. These regulations are expected to lead to volume increases in 2014 and more significant volume increases in future years. To meet the expected increase in activated carbon demand, the Company recently completed the expansion of its Pearl River facility by 20% - adding 8 million pounds of production per year. In addition, a similar project to expand one of the Companys three virgin production lines at its Big Sandy facility will commence in 2014. Other sources of capacity include increased utilization of the Companys activated carbon reactivation capacity in all three of its regions (Americas, Europe and Asia); operational improvements at the Companys virgin carbon manufacturing facilities due to new capital investments; a third-party plant efficiency study to be completed in the first half of 2014; an ongoing product rationalization project that has provided a reduction in SKUs of 45%; and, the sale of outsourced carbons. Finally, the Company continues to evaluate other opportunities for virgin activated carbon expansion including a new facility or a significant expansion of one of the Companys existing facilities. Impediments to growth in 2014 could include an economic slowdown in any or all of the regions served and, in the future, could also include impacts from delays in environmental regulations further discussed below. The Company believes that fair pricing for activated carbon in the United States of America is being achieved via the application of a tariff imposed on Chinese steam activated carbon. Under the anti-dumping rules, importers of steam activated carbon from China are potentially required to pay anti-dumping duties. The Commerce Department conducts reviews in order to determine whether changes (increases or decreases) should be made to the anti-dumping tariff rate applicable to any foreign exporter. These retrospective reviews occur annually while the anti-dumping duty order (the order) is in effect (the current order is scheduled to expire in March 2017). The Companys most recent price increase was announced in February 2013. Because of existing contracts, outstanding bids and other factors, it typically takes approximately 12 months for the full effect of a price increase to be realized. Raw material costs for production in 2014 are expected to decline compared to 2013. The most significant raw material cost is coal. The quantity of coal consumed varies based on the overall production levels achieved as well as the 38 Table of Contents mix of products manufactured during the year. The Company expects its total cost of coal to decrease in 2014 as a result of lower pricing achieved in its two recently signed, five-year coal contracts. These contracts represent approximately 70% of the Companys current annual coal requirements. As of December 31, 2013, the Company has approximately 80% of its 2014 anticipated coal requirements under contract or in inventory. The Company continues to make research and development expenditures primarily related to its advanced FLUEPAC products. These products were introduced to significantly reduce the amount of powdered activated carbon (PAC) required for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas when compared to competing products. PAC is recognized today by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as the leading abatement technology for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas. The current U.S. driver of sales to coal-fired power plants is state regulations. However, on December 21, 2011, the U.S. EPA issued the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) requiring mercury and other substances to be removed from the flue gas of coal-fired power plants. The final MATS regulation was published in the Federal Register on February 16, 2012 and became effective on April 16, 2012. Compliance with MATS will generally be required three years from the effective date (April 2015). Exceptions for newly installed equipment and/or reliability critical paths could potentially delay implementation for applicable power plants up to an additional two years. As of December 31, 2013, the Company believes that approximately 170 units have been granted a one-year extension by at least 20 different states. The Company cannot predict when the other MATS legal challenges will be resolved. In addition to MATS, the EPA has promulgated mercury removal regulations related to industrial boilers and cement manufacturers. Compliance dates for cement manufacturers and industrial boilers are currently September 9, 2015 and January 31, 2016, respectively. The Company suspects that these regulations could continue to be challenged and that compliance implementation for MATS or for these other mercury removal regulations may be delayed. There are also mercury removal regulations for the flue gas of coal-fired power plants in effect for certain Canadian provinces. The Company believes that mercury removal could become the largest U.S. market for activated carbon and has made great strides in establishing itself as a market leader. The Company estimates that the current annual demand for mercury removal in North America is 120 million to 150 million pounds and may grow to as much as 380 million to 765 million pounds by 2016. However, today the North American activated carbon supply capacity for this market is greater than current demand. As a result, pricing in this market has deteriorated. The Company expects this trend to continue in the near future until compliance with MATS draws nearer. The Company believes its advanced products for mercury which have carbon usage rates of 50% to 70% less than alternative products, are important to its ongoing success in this market. Compliance with other proposed emissions regulations such as the EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and Carbon Pollution Standards (CPS) could significantly impact the amount of carbon utilized by electric utilities for compliance with MATS. In September 2013, the EPA released a Carbon Pollution Standards proposal for new electric generating units. The standards for new units will have little impact on activated carbon usage in the future; however, the EPA is planning to propose CPS for existing electric generating units in June of 2014. The Company anticipates that the CPS for existing units could have a negative impact on future activated carbon demand for electric generators. In addition, a federal appeals court vacated CSAPR and a replacement or modified rule is not expected to be promulgated by the EPA for at least three years. Additional hearings are expected that will further clarify or modify these rules, their implementation dates, and requirements. The Company believes the majority of U.S. electric utilities are awaiting further resolution of MATS, the Carbon Pollution Standards proposal for existing electric generating units, and a final determination as it relates to CSAPR before implementing an integrated treatment approach to more broadly address how to invest in pollution control equipment across their power plant fleet. In addition, long-term lower natural gas costs will likely also impact this market as electric generation facilities could shift production from coal to natural gas. Plant closures and/or wet scrubbing equipment installations would reduce the amount of carbon used for mercury removal. In addition, wide-spread adoption of the Companys advanced mercury removal products could also reduce the pounds of activated carbon needed. Adverse market conditions coupled with a strong adoption of the Companys advanced mercury removal carbons, could significantly reduce the eventual market volume opportunity to a level below the low end of aforementioned forecasted demand of 380 million to 765 million pounds. However, in that case, the Company could expect to increase its share of this market. In addition to mercury regulations in North America, China has announced plans for mercury removal from its coal-fired power plants. The plans, as announced, stipulate levels of mercury removal that would not likely result in large activated carbon sales. However, trials will purportedly be conducted to establish removal requirements. 39 Table of Contents The need for municipal drinking water utilities to comply with the EPAs Stage 2 Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproducts Rule (the DBP Rule) is another growth driver for the Company. Disinfection Byproducts (DBPs) are compounds that form when natural occurring organic materials in drinking water sources react with the chemicals used to disinfect the water. Granular activated carbon (GAC) is recognized by the EPA as a best available control technology (BACT) for the reduction of DBPs. The EPA promulgated the DBP Rule in 2006, and requires water utilities to be in compliance with the rule in a phased manner between 2012 and 2015. The Company currently estimates that this regulation may increase the annual demand for GAC by municipal water utilities in the United States to more than 70 million pounds by 2015. This market also provides an opportunity for the Companys service business by converting customers from the use of virgin carbon to reactivated carbon. The Companys reactivation facilities in Arizona, California, New York, and Ohio have all received certification from the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) International. This certification verifies that potable custom reactivated carbon is safe for reuse in municipal water treatment applications. During the second quarter of 2011, the city of Phoenix, Arizona selected the Company to reactivate for a ten-year period approximately 11 million pounds of spent activated carbon, used to prevent the formation of DBPs. The contract with Phoenix included the construction of a reactivation facility in Gila Bend, Arizona. The reactivation facility, owned and operated by the Company, serves as a regional center, providing custom reactivation services for other municipalities in the Southwestern U.S. that utilize GAC to treat their drinking water, including two additional cities in Arizona whose representatives served on the selection panel and have also entered into ten year contracts with us for reactivation services. In Europe, the Company was awarded a multi-year contract by a large water provider in the United Kingdom (UK), similar to its contract with the city of Phoenix. The Company will supply virgin carbon and reactivation services for up to a ten year period and plans to restart and upgrade its Tipton plant in the UK for that purpose. The planned upgrades are estimated to require $9.5 million of capital expenditures and will be completed in stages. This plant, having a current estimated annual capacity of approximately 11 million pounds, will begin undergoing equipment modifications and a significant capacity expansion during 2014 and is planned to return to operation in late 2014 with the additional capacity and planned upgrades completed in 2015. China also announced that it will commit billions of dollars to water and wastewater improvements. Equipment The Companys equipment business is somewhat cyclical in nature and depends on both regulations and the general health of the overall economy. The Company believes that U.S. demand for its ultraviolet light (UV) systems will continue, as smaller municipalities must meet implementation deadlines through 2015 for EPA regulations to treat for Cryptosporidium in drinking water. Worldwide firm bid opportunities for UV systems for the municipal market remained somewhat slow in 2013. However, UV remains the technology of choice for controlling Cryptosporidium and Giardia under the U.S. EPA LT2 regulations, and smaller communities will need to implement over the coming years. The Company also believes that demand for its ballast water treatment systems will continue to grow. The U.S. Coast Guard issued its ballast water treatment rule on March 23, 2012 (Coast Guard Rule). The Coast Guard Rule addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water and ultimately requires U.S. Type Approval for treatment systems used in U.S. waters. Ships wishing to release ballast water into U.S. waters must operate an acceptable treatment system on all ships built after December 1, 2013; on medium sized ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2014; and, on small and large ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2016. The Coast Guard Rules discharge limits match the numerical limits proposed by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) but the Coast Guard is more prescriptive as to testing methodology than is the IMO. The only test method currently referenced in the Coast Guard Rule cannot measure the effectiveness of UV based systems like the Companys Hyde GUARDIAN and the other best selling systems. The Coast Guard in conjunction with the EPA is considering alternate test methods used by other nations to approve UV based ballast water treatment systems. Hyde Marine and other ballast water treatment system manufacturers whose technology includes the use of ultraviolet light, routinely used in the disinfection of drinking water, are working with the Coast Guard and the EPA in an effort to clarify the criteria in the Coast Guard Rule. In 2012, the Coast Guard approved NSF International (NSF), located in Ann Arbor, Michigan as the first Independent Laboratory to work with manufacturers in the Type Approval process for ballast water treatment systems. Det Norske Veritas (DNV) AS, located in Hovik, Norway, became the second entity to achieve the status of an Independent Laboratory (IL) in June 2013. The ILs are just gearing up to work with manufacturers on testing for US Type Approval a 40 Table of Contents process that is expected to take up to three years. In the interim, ships may discharge ballast water in U.S. ports for a period of five years if they operate a ballast water treatment system that has been designated as an Alternate Management System (AMS) by the Coast Guard. To qualify for this status, the equipment supplier must possess an international Type Approval, and must demonstrate to the Coast Guard that the equipment performs at least as well as ballast water exchange. The Company was granted AMS status for its Hyde GUARDIAN ballast water treatment system effective April 15, 2013. In 2004, the IMO adopted the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (BWMC) which, like the Coast Guard Rule, addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water. The regulations requiring ballast water treatment will become effective one year after 30 countries representing 35% of the worlds shipping tonnage ratify the BWMC. The BWMC has now been signed by 38 countries representing 30.4% of the worlds current shipping tonnage. The BWMC is expected to be phased in over a ten-year period and, coupled with the Coast Guard Rule, will require more than 64,000 vessels to install ballast water treatment systems. The Company believes that the total ballast water treatment market will approximate $28 billion after ratification of the BWMC. The Hyde GUARDIAN system, which employs filtration and ultraviolet light technology to filter and disinfect ballast water, offers cost, safety, and technological advantages. Hyde GUARDIAN has received Type Approval from Lloyds Register on behalf of the U.K. Maritime and Coast Guard Agency which confirms compliance with the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention. Hyde GUARDIAN has also received Class Society Type Approval from Lloyds Register (LR), American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), and Russian Maritime Registry of Shipping (RS). The strategic acquisition of Hyde Marine has provided the Company immediate entry into a global, regulation driven market with major long-term growth potential. To date, most of the Hyde GUARDIAN systems sold have been for new ship builds but long term, most of Hydes sales will be for systems retrofitted into existing ships. During 2012 and 2013, the number of new ship builds was significantly lower than in prior years and the retrofit market for ballast water equipment has yet to ramp up owing to the delay in ratification of the IMO BWMC. This has resulted in a decline in Hyde GUARDIAN orders. During 2013, the Company sold 64 ballast water treatment systems. During 2012 and 2011, the Company sold 68 and 82 ballast water treatment systems, respectively. Subsequent to the January 2010 acquisition of Hyde Marine, the Company has sold over 300 systems valued at approximately $67 million. Backlog for the Equipment segment as of December 31, 2013, was $19.4 million while backlog at December 31, 2012 was $31.9 million. The decrease in backlog from year-end 2012 is primarily due to the temporary decline in Hyde Marines backlog as new ship builds remain below historical levels and the retrofit market is only beginning to develop. Consumer Sales of activated carbon cloth increased $0.3 million or 2.6% in 2013 as compared to 2012. The Company believes this business will grow modestly again in 2014 due to increased demand in its primary markets - medical and defense. 41 Table of Contents