Item 2 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition This discussion should be read in connection with the information contained in the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations Consolidated net sales decreased by $1.7 million or 1.2% and $0.4 million or 0.1% for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2014, respectively, versus the similar 2013 periods. The total positive impact of foreign currency translation on consolidated net sales was $0.6 million and $1.8 million for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2014, respectively, versus the same periods for 2013. Net sales for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2014 for the Activated Carbon and Service segment increased $1.3 million or 1.1% and $6.1 million or 1.7%, respectively, versus the similar 2013 periods. The increase in sales for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the quarter ended September 30, 2013 is principally due to higher sales in the Industrial Process market of $2.1 million driven by volume increases of approximately 12% which were primarily in Europe and Asia. In addition, higher sales in the Environmental Water market of $0.8 million related to a water remediation customer in the Americas region. Partially offsetting these increases was lower sales in the Specialty Carbon market of $1.6 million primarily due to lower demand for metal recovery products in the Americas as sales in 2013 did not repeat in 2014. The increase in sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment for the year to date period ended September 30, 2014 was largely due to higher demand and pricing in the Food market of $6.8 million for sweetener customers which was driven by three new large orders in the Americas and Europe. The above mentioned higher demand in the Industrial Process and Environmental Water and markets of $3.9 million and $6.9 million, respectively, also contributed to the year to date increase . Partially offsetting these increases was lower demand in the Specialty Carbon market of $4.6 million primarily related to metal recovery products as mentioned above, and lower demand of respirator carbon products due to a temporary slowdown in U.S. Government purchases; lower volume and pricing for powder activated carbon in the Asian Environmental Air market of $3.8 million; and lower sales in the Americas Potable Water market of $2.6 million as the 2013 year to date period included sales for two large municipal carbon fills that did not repeat. Included in the amounts above is the positive impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $0.4 million and $1.3 million, respectively, for quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2014. Net sales for the Equipment segment decreased $2.6 million or 19.5% and $8.5 million or 20.5%, respectively, for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2014 versus the similar 2013 periods. The decrease for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 was due to lower sales for both the traditional carbon adsorption equipment of $2.4 million and traditional ultraviolet light systems of $1.1 million as a result of several large contracts that were completed during the prior year more than offset new contracts. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases in sales for ballast water treatment systems of $0.6 million as the result of new contracts that were awarded in 2014. The decrease for the year to date period ended September 30, 2014 was due to lower sales of traditional ultraviolet light systems of $5.2 million and ion exchange systems of $1.4 million as work related to several large contracts was substantially completed during the 2013 period . Also contributing to the decline were lower sales of ballast water treatment systems of $0.6 million due to the effects of delayed ratification of the International Maritime Organization ballast water treatment regulations and other U.S. Coast Guard and Environmental Protection Agency related issues and lower sales of $1.4 million for traditional carbon adsorption equipment as mentioned above. Foreign currency translation included in the amounts above for the Equipment segment was comparable for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2014 versus the same 2013 periods. Net sales for the Consumer segment decreased $0.4 million or 13.8% for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 versus the 2013 period and increased $2.0 million or 27.8% for the year to date periods ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the 2013 period. The decrease for the quarter partially offset the increase experienced in the first six months of 2014 as compared to 2013 which was due to higher demand for activated carbon cloth from a single, large customer. Included in the amounts above is the positive impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $0.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively, for quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2014. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percentage of net sales, was 34.6% for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 compared to 33.3% for the similar 2013 period, an increase of 1.3 percentage points. The increase was in the Activated Carbon and Service segment and included the favorable impact of approximately $0.8 million from price increases in the Americas region that were instituted in March 2013. The third quarter of 2014 also benefited from lower coal costs of approximately $0.7 million from lower pricing in two coal contracts. Finally, the favorable impact from our cost improvement programs contributed to margin improvement in all three regions. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. 24 Table of Contents Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percentage of net sales, was 34.2% for the year to date period ended September 30, 2014 compared to 32.6% for the comparable 2013 period, an increase of 1.6 percentage points. The increase was primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment and included the favorable impact of approximately $2.2 million in the Americas region from price increases and lower coal costs of approximately $0.9 million, as mentioned above. In addition, the first nine months of 2013 included adjustments that increased the estimated costs to complete for several projects in process in the Equipment segment that totaled approximately $0.6 million. Finally, the favorable impact from our cost improvement programs including increased carbon production volumes of 3.9% during the first nine months of 2014 contributed to margin improvement in all three regions. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased $0.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2014 versus the similar 2013 periods. The increase for the year to date period is due primarily to increased depreciation related to the Companys Gila Bend, Arizona facility that was placed into service in the quarter ended June 30, 2013. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $0.2 million or 0.9% and $2.9 million or 5.2%, respectively, for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2014 versus the comparable 2013 periods. The increase was principally due to costs related to an SAP re-implementation project which commenced in January 2014 aimed at improving functionality of the Companys enterprise resource planning (ERP) system of approximately $1.1 million and $2.9 million, respectively, for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2014. Also contributing to the year over year increases was the absence of a $0.2 million and $1.1 million benefit related to a multi-employer pension plan in the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2013, respectively. Partially offsetting the higher expense in both periods was the favorable impact from our cost improvement programs. Research and development expenses were comparable for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 and increased $0.3 million for the year to date period ended September 30, 2014 versus the comparable 2013 periods. The increase for the year to date period was primarily due to higher advanced product testing costs related to mercury removal from flue gas. For the year to date period ended September 30, 2014, the Company recorded $0.3 million of restructuring income which represents reductions in the estimated accrual and a pre-tax gain for the sale of a warehouse in Belgium. For the year to date period ended September 30, 2013, the Company recorded $0.5 million of restructuring charges related to headcount reductions and recorded a pre-tax gain of $0.6 million for the sale of its activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China. Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information. Litigation and other contingencies of $0.3 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2013 relate primarily to environmental expenses at the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky production facility (refer to Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). Interest income and Other expense - net were both comparable for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2014 versus the comparable 2013 periods. Interest expense for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 decreased $0.1 million primarily as a result of an increase in capitalized interest versus the comparable 2013 period. For the year to date period ended September 30, 2014, interest expense decreased $0.2 million versus the comparable 2013 period primarily due to lower average debt outstanding, an increase in capitalized interest and lower interest rates under the Companys borrowing arrangements during the 2014 period. The Companys income tax provision in creased by $0.7 million and $ 0.5 million for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 201 4, respectively, versus the comparable 2013 periods . The increase in pre-tax earnings for the quarter increased tax expense approximately $0.4 million compared to the similar 2013 period. In addition, the prior year period included an approximate $0.2 million benefit related to the release of uncertain tax positions when compared to the 2014 period. For the year to date period, federal tax expense increased approximately $1.1 million resulting from an increase in pre-tax earnings and state income taxes increased approximately $0.5 million compared to the similar 2013 period. Partially offsetting these increases was a benefit related to the mix of income earned in foreign taxing jurisdictions where the tax rate is lower than the U.S. rate. In addition, year to date tax expense includes a net $1.4 million benefit related to a completed IRS examination and the effective settlement and release of uncertain tax positions in 2014. The 2013 year to date tax expense included a benefit of $1.5 million from the sale of the Companys activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China which occurred in March 2013. The effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 was 33.8% compared to 31.5% for the same period in 2013. The in crease in the effective tax rate compared to the prior year primarily related to a less favorable mix of income earned in foreign tax jurisdictions whose tax rate is lower than the U.S. rate in 2014, and uncertain tax positions released in the prior year in excess of those released in 2014. The effective tax rate for the year to date period ended September 30, 2014 was 31.5% compared to 32.3 % for the similar 201 3 period. The decrease in the effective tax rate for 2014 compared to the prior year was primarily related to the effective settlement and resulting release of uncertain tax positions due to the closing of an IRS examination. This benefit was partially offset by an increase of permanent differences in 2014. 25 Table of Contents In the preparation of its effective tax rate, the Company uses an annualized estimate of pre-tax earnings. Throughout the year this annualized estimate may change based on actual results and annual earnings estimate revisions in various tax jurisdictions. Because the Companys permanent tax benefits are relatively constant, changes in the annualized estimate may have a significant impact on the effective tax rate in future periods. Financial Condition Working Capital and Liquidity Cash flows provided by operating activities were $61.4 million for the period ended September 30, 201 4 compared to $39.1 million for the comparable 201 3 period. The $22.3 million increase is primarily due to favorable working capital changes including of $9.6 million from accounts payable and accrued liabilities primarily due to the timing of payments for raw materials and outsourced carbons and $7.2 million from a reduction in inventories during 2014. The inventory decline resulted from lower inventory costs in 2014 as well as a reduction in coal inventory. The Company maintains a U.S. Credit Agreement which provides for a senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Revolver) in an amount up to $225.0 million. Availability under the Revolver is conditioned upon various customary conditions. The Credit Agreement also provides for senior unsecured delayed draw term loans (Delayed Draw Term Loans) in an aggregate amount up to $75.0 million. Certain of the Companys Domestic Subsidiaries unconditionally guarantee all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type. The Company must comply with certain financial covenants including a minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio as defined within the Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of September 30, 2014 and December 31, 2013. Calgon Carbon Japan (CCJ) maintains a Term Loan Agreement and a Working Capital Loan Agreement (the Japanese Working Capital Loan). The Company is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor of CCJs obligations and the Company permitted CCJ to grant a security interest and continuing lien in certain of its assets, including inventory and accounts receivable, to secure its obligations under both loan agreements. On March 17, 2014, CCJ signed an agreement which extended the maturity date of the Japanese Working Capital Loan from April 2, 2014 to April 2, 2015. The Company maintained an unsecured Chinese credit facility for working capital requirements totaling 10.0 million Renminbi (RMB) or $1.6 million that matured and was terminated on July 19, 2014. On August 14, 2014, the Company entered into an Uncommitted Revolving Loan Facility Letter (Facility Letter) which provides for an uncommitted line of credit totaling 5.0 million RMB or $0.8 million. The Company is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor under the Facility Letter. The Facility Letter matures on July 19, 2015. Refer to Note 4, Borrowing Arrangements, to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on the Companys borrowing arrangements. Common stock dividends were not paid during the quarters ended September 30, 2014 and 2013. Share Repurchases In December 2013, the Comp anys Board of Directors approved an increase in the overall value of shares authorized for repurchase under a share repurchase program to $150 million. Subsequently, the Company initiated an open market share repurchase program whereby 146,800 shares were repurchased in December 2013 at an average price of $20.37 per share. During the nine month period ended September 30, 2014, the Company repurchased an additional 1,485,141 shares at an average price of $20.54 per share. All of the aforementioned repurchases which were made during the first six months of 2014, were funded from operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings and the shares are initially held as treasury stock. Subsequent to these repurchases, the Companys remaining authorization to repurchase its common stock is approximately $116.5 million. Contractual Obligations The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. As of September 30, 201 4 , there have been no material changes in the payment terms of debt since December 31, 201 3 , except for the conversion by the Company of $45.0 million of borrowings from its Revolver to its Delayed Draw Term Loan. Under the Delayed Draw Term Loan, the Company is obligated to make quarterly principal installment payments 26 Table of Contents equal to 2.5% of the principal amount of the Delayed Draw Term Loan beginning on January 1, 2016, with the final installment of the remaining principal balance due on the November 6, 2020 maturity date. In addition, the maturity date of the Japanese Working Capital Loan was extended from April 2, 2014 to April 2, 2015. Also, the 10.0 million Renminbi (RMB) Chinese credit facility matured and was terminated on July 19, 2014, and on August 14, 2014, a new uncommitted line of credit was signed totaling 5.0 million RMB or $0.8 million which matures on July 19, 2015. (Refer to Note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). The Company is obligated to make principal payments on debt outstanding as of September 30, 201 4 of $0.2 million in 2014, $0.9 million in 2015, $4.5 million in 2016, $ 8.6 million in 201 7, $8.5 million in 2018, $4.5 million in 2019 and $27.0 million in 2020 . As of September 30, 201 4 , there have been no material changes from December 31, 2013 in the payment terms of operating lease agreements except for a new lease agreement for building space which would increase the payments due by period from 1-3 years, 3-5 years and more than 5 years by $2.7 million, $3.5 million and $23.6 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2014, there have been no material changes in the payment terms of unconditional purchase obligations from December 31, 2013. Capital Expenditures and Investments Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment totaled $43.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to expenditures of $22.1 million for the same period in 2013. The expenditures for the period ended September 30, 2014 were primarily for improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky and Pearlington, Mississippi manufacturing facilities, along with SAP re-implementation project expenditures . The expenditures for the period ended September 30, 2013 were primarily for improvements to the Companys manufacturing facilities including $8.3 million related to the construction of the Companys Gila Bend, Arizona facility. Capital expenditures for 201 4 are currently projected to be approximately $70.0 million to $75.0 million. The aforementioned expenditures are expected to be funded by operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings. The Company received proceeds related to government grants in both the U.S. and Europe of $1.2 million and $1.7 million for the nine months ended September 30 , 2014 and 2013, respectively (Refer to Note 15 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). The Company currently expects that cash from annual operating activities plus cash balances and available external financing will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months. The cash needs of each of the Companys reporting segments are principally covered by the segments operating cash flow on a standalone basis. Any additional needs will be funded by cash on hand or borrowings under the Companys Credit Agreement, Japanese Working Capital Loan, or other credit facilities. Specifically, the Equipment and Consumer segments historically have not required extensive capital expenditures; therefore, the Company believes that cash on hand and borrowings will adequately support each of the segments cash needs. Cash and cash equivalents include $ 30.6 million and $27.6 million held by the Companys foreign subsidiaries as of September 30, 2014 and December 31, 2013 , respectively. Generally, cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries are not readily available for use in the United States without adverse tax consequences. The Companys principal sources of liquidity are its cash flows from its operating activities or borrowings directly from its lines of credit. The Company does not believe the level of its non-U.S. cash position will have an adverse effect on working capital needs, planned growth, repayment of maturing debt, or benefit plan funding. Contingencies The Company is involved in various legal proceedings, lawsuits and claims, including employment, product warranty and environmental matters of a nature considered normal to its business. It is the Companys policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the loss amount is reasonably estimable. Refer to Note 12 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 16 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on recently issued accounting guidance. 27 Table of Contents Outlook Activated Carbon and Service The Company continues to estimate that for the period 2012 through 2017, the world-wide activated carbon market will increase at a compound annual growth rate of 10.8%. The Companys activated carbon and service sales volume for the first nine months of 2014 increased only 0.1% over 2013. However, the impacts of environmental regulations are expected to lead to significant volume increases beginning in 2015, as discussed below. To meet the expected increase in activated carbon demand, the Company recently completed the expansion of its Pearl River facility by 20% - adding approximately 8 million pounds of granular activated carbon production per year. In addition, a similar project to expand one of the Companys three virgin production lines at its Big Sandy facility has commenced in the third quarter of 2014. Other sources of incremental capacity include increased utilization of the Companys activated carbon reactivation capacity in all three of its regions (Americas, Europe and Asia); operational improvements at the Companys virgin carbon manufacturing facilities due to new capital investments; a third-party plant efficiency study completed in the first half of 2014; an ongoing product rationalization project that has provided a reduction in stock keeping units (SKU) of 45%; and, the sale of outsourced carbons. Finally, the Company continues to evaluate other opportunities for virgin activated carbon expansion including a significant expansion of one of the Companys existing facilities. Impediments to near-term growth could include an economic slowdown in any or all of the regions served and, in the future, could also include impacts from delays in environmental regulations further discussed below. The Company believes that fair pricing for activated carbon in the United States of America is being achieved via the application of a tariff imposed on Chinese steam activated carbon. Under the anti-dumping rules, importers of steam activated carbon from China are potentially required to pay anti-dumping duties. The Commerce Department conducts reviews in order to determine whether changes (increases or decreases) should be made to the anti-dumping tariff rate applicable to any foreign exporter. These retrospective reviews occur annually while the anti-dumping duty order (the order) is in effect (the current order is scheduled to expire in March 2017). The Companys most recent price increase was announced in February 2013. Because of existing contracts, outstanding bids and other factors, it typically takes approximately 12 months for the full effect of a price increase to be realized. Raw material costs for production in 2014 are expected to decline compared to 2013. The most significant raw material cost is coal. The quantity of coal consumed varies based on the overall production levels achieved as well as the mix of products manufactured during the year. The Company expects its total cost of coal to decrease in 2014 primarily as a result of lower pricing achieved from two five-year coal contracts signed in December 2013. These contracts represent approximately 70% of the Companys current annual coal requirements. As of September 30, 2014, the Company has approximately 80% of its 2014 anticipated coal requirements under contract or in inventory. The Company continues to make research and development expenditures primarily related to its advanced FLUEPAC products. These products were introduced to significantly reduce the amount of powdered activated carbon (PAC) required for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas when compared to competing products. PAC is recognized today by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as the leading abatement technology for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas. The current U.S. driver of sales to coal-fired power plants is state regulations. However, on December 21, 2011, the U.S. EPA issued the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) requiring mercury and other substances to be removed from the flue gas of coal-fired power plants. The final MATS regulation was published in the Federal Register on February 16, 2012 and became effective on April 16, 2012. Compliance with MATS will generally be required three years from the effective date (April 2015). Exceptions for newly installed equipment and/or reliability critical paths could potentially delay implementation for applicable power plants up to an additional two years. As of September 30, 2014, the Company believes that approximately 20% of the units have been granted a one-year extension by at least 20 different states. On April 15, 2014, the United States of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C Circuit) denied petitions challenging the final MATS regulation. The Company views this decision as a major step towards the development of the mercury removal market in the U.S. However, we understand that the U.S. Supreme Court has received several petitions for certiorari aimed at challenging the D.C. Circuits opinion upholding the MATS regulation. The Company cannot predict when or if the U.S. Supreme Court will hear these appeals. In addition to MATS, the EPA has promulgated mercury removal regulations related to industrial boilers and cement manufacturers. Compliance dates for cement manufacturers and industrial boilers are currently September 9, 2015 and January 31, 2016, respectively. There are also mercury removal regulations for the flue gas of coal-fired power plants in effect for certain Canadian provinces. The Company believes that mercury removal could become the largest U.S. market for activated carbon and has made great strides in establishing itself as a market leader. Based on standard carbon products, the Company estimates that the current annual demand for mercury removal in North America is 120 million to 150 million pounds and may grow to as much as 350 million to 550 million pounds by 2016. The Companys advanced products for mercury removal which have carbon usage rates of 50% to 70% less than alternative products, are important to its ongoing success in this market. 28 Table of Contents Compliance with other proposed emissions regulations such as the EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and Carbon Pollution Standards (CPS) could significantly impact the amount of carbon utilized by electric utilities for compliance with MATS. In September 2013, the EPA released a Carbon Pollution Standards proposal for new electric generating units. The standards for new units are likely to have little impact on activated carbon usage in the future; however, the EPA proposed CPS for existing electric generating units released in June of 2014. The Company is evaluating the rule, but believes that the CPS for existing units could have a negative impact on future activated carbon demand for electric generators, should generators opt to retire or repower their coal-fired electric generation units. The Company believes the majority of U.S. electric utilities are awaiting further resolution of MATS, the Carbon Pollution Standards proposal for existing electric generating units, and a final determination as it relates to CSAPR before implementing an integrated treatment approach to more broadly address how to invest in pollution control equipment across their power plant fleet. In addition, long-term lower natural gas costs will likely also impact this market as electric generation facilities could shift production from coal to natural gas. It should also be noted that wide-spread adoption of the Companys advanced mercury removal products could also reduce the pounds of activated carbon needed for mercury removal. Adverse market conditions coupled with a strong adoption of the Companys advanced mercury removal carbons, could significantly reduce the eventual market volume opportunity to a level below the low end of aforementioned forecasted demand of 350 million to 550 million pounds of standard activated carbon. However, in that case, the Company could expect to increase its share of this market. In addition to mercury regulations in North America, China has announced plans for mercury removal from its coal-fired power plants. The plans, as announced, stipulate levels of mercury removal that would not likely result in large activated carbon sales. However, trials will purportedly be conducted to establish removal requirements. The need for municipal drinking water utilities to comply with the EPAs Stage 2 Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproducts Rule (the DBP Rule) is another growth driver for the Company. Disinfection Byproducts (DBPs) are compounds that form when natural occurring organic materials in drinking water sources react with the chemicals used to disinfect the water. Granular activated carbon (GAC) is recognized by the EPA as a best available control technology (BACT) for the reduction of DBPs. The EPA promulgated the DBP Rule in 2006, and requires water utilities to be in compliance with the rule in a phased manner between 2012 and 2015. Utilities can request delays up to 24 months if necessary to secure capital funding to install compliance technology. The Company currently estimates that this regulation may increase the annual demand for GAC by municipal water utilities in the United States to more than 70 million pounds by 2015. This market also provides an opportunity for the Companys service business by converting customers from the use of virgin carbon to reactivated carbon. The Companys custom reactivation facilities in Arizona, California, New York, and Ohio have all received certification from the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) International. This certification verifies that potable custom reactivated carbon is safe for reuse in municipal drinking water treatment applications. In Europe, the Company was awarded a multi-year contract by a large water provider in the United Kingdom (UK). The Company will supply virgin carbon and reactivation services for up to a ten year period and plans to restart and upgrade its Tipton plant in the UK for that purpose. The planned upgrades are estimated to require $9.5 million of capital expenditures and will be completed in stages. This plant, having a current estimated annual capacity of approximately 11 million pounds, has begun undergoing equipment modifications and a significant capacity expansion. The plant should return to operation in the spring of 2015 with the additional capacity and planned upgrades completed in late 2015. China also announced that it will commit billions of dollars to water and wastewater improvements. Equipment The Companys equipment business is somewhat cyclical in nature and depends on both regulations and the general health of the overall economy. The Company believes that U.S. demand for its ultraviolet light (UV) systems will continue, as smaller municipalities must meet implementation deadlines through 2015 for EPA regulations to treat for Cryptosporidium in drinking water. UV remains the technology of choice for controlling Cryptosporidium and Giardia under the U.S. EPA LT2 regulations. The Company also believes that demand for its ballast water treatment systems will grow. The U.S. Coast Guard issued its ballast water treatment rule on March 23, 2012 (Coast Guard Rule). The Coast Guard Rule addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water and ultimately requires U.S. Type Approval for treatment systems used in U.S. waters. Ships wishing to release ballast water into U.S. waters must operate an acceptable treatment system on all ships built after December 1, 2013; on medium ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2014; and, on small and large ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2016. Ship operators can seek an extension of the fore mentioned compliance dates from the Coast Guard by citing the lack of availability of U.S. Type Approved ballast water treatment systems. As of September 25, 2014, 256 such extensions have been granted to operators that otherwise would have been required to purchase ballast water treatment equipment under the Rule. The granting of these extensions despite the existence of acceptable but not yet U.S. Type Approved systems (like the Hyde GUARDIAN) has had a dampening effect on the market. The Coast Guard Rules discharge 29 Table of Contents limits match the numerical limits proposed by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) but the Coast Guard is more prescriptive as to testing methodology than is the IMO. The only test method currently referenced in the Coast Guard Rule cannot measure the effectiveness of UV based systems like the Companys Hyde GUARDIAN and the other best selling systems. The Coast Guard in conjunction with the EPA is considering alternate test methods used by other nations to approve UV based ballast water treatment systems. Hyde Marine and other ballast water treatment system manufacturers whose technology includes the use of ultraviolet light, routinely used in the disinfection of drinking water, are working with the Coast Guard and the EPA in an effort to clarify the criteria in the Coast Guard Rule. In 2012, the Coast Guard approved NSF International (NSF), located in Ann Arbor, Michigan as the first Independent Laboratory to work with manufacturers in the Type Approval process for ballast water treatment systems. Det Norske Veritas (DNV) AS, located in Hovik, Norway, became the second entity to achieve the status of an Independent Laboratory (IL) in June 2013. The ILs are gearing up to work with manufacturers on testing for US Type Approval a process that is expected to take from one to three years. In the interim, ships may discharge ballast water in U.S. ports for a period of five years if they operate a ballast water treatment system that has been designated as an Alternate Management System (AMS) by the Coast Guard. To qualify for this status, the equipment supplier must possess an international Type Approval, and must demonstrate to the Coast Guard that the equipment performs at least as well as ballast water exchange. The Company was granted AMS status for its Hyde GUARDIAN ballast water treatment system effective April 15, 2013. In 2004, the IMO adopted the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (BWMC) which, like the Coast Guard Rule, addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water. The regulations requiring ballast water treatment will become effective one year after 30 countries representing 35% of the worlds shipping tonnage ratify the BWMC. The BWMC has now been signed by 43 countries representing 32.54% of the worlds current shipping tonnage. The BWMC is expected to be phased in over a ten-year period and, coupled with the Coast Guard Rule, will require an estimated 64,000 vessels to install ballast water treatment systems. The Company believes that the total ballast water treatment market will approximate $28 billion after ratification of the BWMC. The Hyde GUARDIAN system, which employs filtration and ultraviolet light technology to filter and disinfect ballast water, offers cost, safety, and technological advantages. Hyde GUARDIAN has received Type Approval from Lloyds Register on behalf of the U.K. Maritime and Coast Guard Agency which confirms compliance with the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention. Hyde GUARDIAN has also received Class Society Type Approval from Lloyds Register (LR), American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), and Russian Maritime Registry of Shipping (RS). The strategic acquisition of Hyde Marine provided the Company immediate entry into a global, regulation driven market with major long-term growth potential. To date, most of the Hyde GUARDIAN systems sold have been for new ship builds but long term, most of Hydes sales will be for systems retrofitted into existing ships. During 2012, 2013 and 2014, the number of new ship builds was significantly lower than in prior years and the retrofit market for ballast water equipment has been slow to ramp up owing to the delay in ratification of the IMO BWMC and the fore mentioned Coast Guard extensions. This has suppressed the number of Hyde GUARDIAN orders received. During first nine months of 2014, the Company sold 91 ballast water treatment systems. During 2013, 2012, and 2011, the Company sold 64, 68 and 82 ballast water treatment systems, respectively. Subsequent to the January 2010 acquisition of Hyde Marine, the Company has sold over 380 systems valued at approximately $80 million. Backlog for the Equipment segment as of September 30, 2014 was $21.1 million while backlog at December 31, 2013 was $19.4 million. Consumer Sales of activated carbon cloth increased $2.0 million or 27.8% in the first nine months of 2014 as compared to the first nine months of 2013. In spite of the year over year growth through September, the Company believes this business will grow only modestly for the full 2014 year due to increased demand in its primary markets - medical and defense. Critical Accounting Policies There were no material changes to the Companys critical accounting policies as disclosed in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 201 3 . 30 Table of Contents