Item 2 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition This discussion should be read in connection with the information contained in the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations Consolidated net sales decreased by $4.7 million or 3.4% and $10.3 million or 2.5% for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015, respectively, versus the similar 2014 periods. Included in this change for the quarter and year to date periods, respectively, was a $5.9 million and $18.8 million negative impact of foreign currency translation due to a stronger U.S. dollar which was primarily within the Activated Carbon and Service Segment. Net sales for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015 for the Activated Carbon and Service segment decreased $3.0 million or 2.4% and $4.4 million or 1.2%, respectively, versus the similar 2014 periods. Included in this change was the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $5.8 million and $18.2 million for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015. Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 (Dollars in millions) As Reported Foreign Currency Impact Net of Foreign Currency Impact As Reported Foreign Currency Impact Net of Foreign Currency Impact Environmental Air market $ 11.4 $ 0.9 $ 12.3 $ 25.4 $ 2.3 $ 27.7 Environmental Water market (2.9 ) 1.0 (1.9 ) (7.6 ) 3.7 (3.9 ) Food market (5.1 ) 1.1 (4.0 ) (9.7 ) 3.3 (6.4 ) Potable Water market (4.8 ) 1.4 (3.4 ) (8.0 ) 4.9 (3.1 ) Specialty Carbon market (2.0 ) 0.3 (1.7 ) (3.6 ) 1.0 (2.6 ) Other 0.4 1.1 1.5 (0.9 ) 3.0 2.1 Total Activated Carbon and Service $ (3.0 ) $ 5.8 $ 2.8 $ (4.4 ) $ 18.2 $ 13.8 The decrease in net sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the quarter ended September 30, 2014 is principally due to the negative impact of foreign currency translation. However, sales in the Americas Environmental Air market increased due to higher demand as a result of customers complying with mercury removal regulations promulgated by 19 states and certain Canadian provinces, as well as the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) regulation (see additional discussion regarding MATS in the Outlook portion of this Item 2). This increase was partially offset by lower sales in the Potable Water market which was primarily in the Americas due to several large orders in 2014 that did not repeat in 2015 as well as lower demand, and the timing of municipal carbon fills. Lower demand in the Americas as a result of adverse weather conditions also contributed to the decline. Sales also declined in the Americas Food and Environmental Water markets due to certain non-repeat orders and Americas Specialty market due to continued lower demand for respirators from the U.S. Government. Absent the negative impact of foreign currency, sales for the Activated Carbon and Service Segment increased for the year to date period ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014. The increase was principally due to higher demand in the Americas Environmental Air market, partially offset by the decline in the Food, Environmental Water and Specialty markets, as noted above. In addition, sales declined in the European Food market and the Asian Potable Water markets, primarily due to certain large orders in 2014 that did not repeat in 2015, along with a softer growth rate. Net sales for the Equipment segment decreased $1.1 million or 10.6% and $3.1 million or 9.4%, respectively, for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015 versus the similar 2014 periods. Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales (Dollars in millions) Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Carbon adsorption equipment $ (0.4 ) $ (3.8 ) Ballast water treatment systems (1.9 ) (0.9 ) Traditional ultraviolet light systems 0.5 Ion exchange systems 1.2 1.4 Other (0.3 ) Total Equipment $ (1.1 ) $ (3.1 ) The decrease for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 was primarily due to lower sales for ballast water treatment systems and lower demand for carbon adsorption equipment resulting from the completion of projects for installations for certain customers related 19 Table of Contents to the initial Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproducts Rule and a decline in project related discretionary spending. Partially offsetting this decline was increased sales for ion exchange systems primarily due to several large projects. The decline for the year to date period ended September 30, 2015 was due to lower demand for carbon adsorption equipment and lower sales for ballast water treatment systems, as noted previously. This decline was partially offset by the higher sales for ion exchange systems discussed above, along with higher sales for traditional ultraviolet light systems primarily due to revenue recognized for a large municipal drinking water project. Foreign currency translation effects in the Equipment segment were not significant. Net sales for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015 for the Consumer segment decreased $0.5 million or 21.3% and $2.8 million or 30.4%, respectively, as compared to the similar 2014 periods due to higher demand from a single customer in 2014 that did not repeat in 2015, as well as the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $0.1 million and $0.5 million, respectively, for quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percentage of net sales, was 36.2% for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 compared to 34.6% for the similar 2014 period, a 1.6 percentage point increase which was primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Approximately $1.2 million of this improvement resulted from higher margin products sold, including FLUEPAC products for mercury removal, coupled with a decline in volume of lower margin products. The Companys cost improvement programs, including lower coal costs of approximately $0.5 million, primarily from two long-term coal contracts, contributed to margin improvement in all geographic regions. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percentage of net sales, was 36.5% for the year to date period ended September 30, 2015 compared to 34.2% for the comparable 2014 period, a 2.3 percentage point increase which was primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Approximately $4.3 million of this improvement resulted from higher margin products sold, including FLUEPAC products for mercury removal, coupled with a decline in volume of lower margin products. The Companys cost improvement programs, including lower coal costs of approximately $1.7 million, primarily from two long-term coal contracts, contributed to margin improvement in all geographic regions. In addition, the Company benefited from refunds for import duties paid of approximately $1.3 million under the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015 pertaining to purchases of coconut carbons. In the Equipment segment, improved margins, as well as decreases in estimated costs to complete certain projects in progress, contributed approximately $1.1 million to the improvement. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased $1.1 million and $3.7 million, respectively for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015 versus the similar 2014 periods. The increases were primarily due to higher depreciation expense related to the improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky virgin carbon manufacturing facility and the July 2015 completion of the SAP re-implementation project. Also contributing to the increase was accelerated depreciation expense of approximately $0.5 million and $2.1 million for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015, respectively, related to certain assets that have been or will be replaced as the result of new projects, including the Companys SAP re-implementation project. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.2 million or 6.0% and $3.6 million or 6.1%, respectively, for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015 versus the comparable 2014 periods. The increase was principally due to costs related to an SAP re-implementation project which commenced in January 2014 aimed at improving functionality of the Companys enterprise resource planning (ERP) system of approximately $0.6 million and $1.9 million, respectively, for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015. In addition, outside consulting services increased by $0.4 million and $2.5 million, respectively, for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015. The quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015 also included higher employee related costs of $0.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively, of which $0.5 million was a result of the pension settlement charge in the third quarter of 2015. Partially offsetting the increase for both the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015 was the positive impact of foreign currency translation of $0.7 million and $2.5 million, respectively, due to the stronger U.S. dollar which was primarily within the Activated Carbon and Service segment. The above mentioned increases were primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment for both periods. Selling, general and administrative expenses declined in the Equipment segment by $0.5 million, for the year to date period ended September 30, 2015 as a result of successful cost improvements, including a reduction in headcount. Research and development expenses increased $0.2 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 versus the same period in 2014. This increase was largely due to expenses related to the Companys new research and development innovation center. For the year to date period ended September 30, 2015, research and development expenses were comparable versus the comparable 2014 period. The increase noted above in 2015 was offset by higher advanced product testing costs related to mercury removal from flue gas that were incurred in 2014 but did not repeat in 2015. 20 Table of Contents For the year to date period ended September 30, 2014, the Company recorded $0.3 million of restructuring income which represents reductions in the estimated accrual and a pre-tax gain for the sale of a warehouse in Belgium. Interest income was comparable for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015 versus the comparable 2014 periods. Interest expense increased $0.2 million and $0.3 million for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015 versus the comparable 2014 periods due to an increase in the outstanding borrowings under the Companys debt agreements. The additional income in other income (expense) net of $1.3 million and $1.1 million for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2015 versus the similar 2014 periods, respectively was largely related to foreign exchange gains and a $0.2 million decline in an earn-out liability related to a 2010 acquisition. The Companys income tax provision decreased by $0.7 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 versus the comparable 2014 period due to a change in the mix of earnings in taxing jurisdictions with income tax rates lower than the U.S. rate, as well as a reduction in pre-tax income. The Companys income tax provision increased by $0.5 million for the year to date period ended September 30, 2015 versus the comparable 2014 period. The 2014 year to date tax expense includes a net $1.4 million benefit related to a completed IRS examination and the effective settlement and release of uncertain tax positions. Lower 2015 pre-tax income partially offsets the effect of this benefit in the comparison of these two periods. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was 31.3% compared to 33.8% for the same period in 2014. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three month period ended September 30, 2015 relates to the mix of earnings in taxing jurisdictions with income tax rates lower than the U.S. rate. The effective tax rate for the year to date period ended September 30, 2015 was 33.0% compared to 31.5% for the similar 2014 period. The increase in the effective tax rate primarily relates to the 2014 effective settlement as discussed above. In the preparation of its effective tax rate, the Company uses an annualized estimate of pre-tax earnings. Throughout the year this annualized estimate may change based on actual results and annual earnings estimate revisions in various tax jurisdictions. Because the Companys permanent tax benefits are relatively constant, changes in the annualized estimate may have a significant impact on the effective tax rate in future periods. Financial Condition Working Capital and Liquidity The Company has had sufficient financial resources to meet its operating requirements and to fund capital spending, dividend payments, share repurchases and pension plans. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $53.0 million for the period ended September 30, 2015 compared to $61.4 million for the comparable 2014 period. The $8.4 million decrease is primarily due to unfavorable working capital changes from higher inventories of outsourced carbon products sourced from the Asia region in anticipation of sales to occur later in 2015 or in 2016. During the nine month period ended September 30, 2015, the Company made a $1.2 million discretionary contribution to the U.S. pension plans and $1.1 million in contributions to the European pension plans. Dividends on common stock of $0.05 per share were declared in the first, second quarters and third quarters of 2015. Dividends on common stock of $2.6 million and $7.9 million were paid during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, respectively. In addition, in November 2015, the Companys Board of Directors declared a dividend on common stock of $0.05 per share. Common stock dividends were not declared or paid during the three or nine months ended September 30, 201 4. The Company maintains a U.S. Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) which provides for a senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Revolver) in an amount up to $225 million which expires on November 6, 2020. Availability under the Revolver is conditioned upon various customary conditions. The Credit Agreement also provides for senior unsecured delayed draw term loans (Delayed Draw Term Loans) in an aggregate amount up to $75 million which expires on November 6, 2020. During the third quarter of 2015, the Company converted borrowings of $30 million from its Revolver to the Delayed Draw Term Loan. The full amount of the Delayed Draw Term Loans is now outstanding as of September 30, 2015. Beginning January 1, 2016, quarterly repayments are required equal to 2.5% of the outstanding balance of the Delayed Draw Term Loans, with the remaining balance due on the November 6, 2020 expiration date. Total outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement increased $31.5 million from December 31, 2014. Total availability under the Credit Agreement was $199.6 million as of September 30, 2015. 21 Table of Contents Certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries unconditionally guarantee all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type. The Company must comply with certain financial covenants including minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio as defined within the Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014. Calgon Carbon Japan (CCJ) maintains a Term Loan Agreement which provides for borrowings up to 1.0 billion Japanese Yen and matures on May 10, 2017. In addition, CCJ maintains a Working Capital Loan Agreement which provides for borrowings up to 1.5 billion Japanese Yen and matures on March 31, 2016. The Company is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor of CCJs obligations and the Company permitted CCJ to grant a security interest and continuing lien in certain of its assets, including inventory and accounts receivable, to secure its obligations under both loan agreements. Refer to Note 5 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on the Companys borrowing arrangements. Share Repurchases In December 2013, the Companys Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program with a total of $150 million of purchases authorized. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, the Company repurchased 1,263,791 and 1,485,141 shares, respectively, at an average price of $18.04 per share and $20.54 per share, respectively. As of September 30, 2015, the Company had repurchased a total of 3,341,432 shares at an average price of $19.61 per share under this program. During the period October 1, 2015 through October 30, 2015 , the Company repurchased an additional 307,600 shares at an average share price of $16.60. All of the above mentioned repurchases were funded from operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings and the shares are initially held as treasury stock. Subsequent to these repurchases, the Companys remaining authorization to repurchase its common stock is approximately $79.4 million. Contractual Obligations The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. As of September 30, 201 5, there have been no material changes in the payment terms of these obligations since December 31, 2014. The Company currently expects that cash from annual operating activities plus cash balances and available external financing will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months. The cash needs of each of the Companys reporting segments are principally covered by the segments operating cash flow on a standalone basis. Any additional needs will be funded by cash on hand or borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, Japanese Working Capital Loan, or other credit facilities. Specifically, the Equipment and Consumer segments historically have not required extensive capital expenditures; therefore, the Company believes that cash on hand and borrowings will adequately support each of the segments cash needs. Capital Expenditures and Investments Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment totaled $49.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to expenditures of $43.8 million for the same period in 2014. The expenditures for the period ended September 30, 2015 were primarily for improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky manufacturing facility of $16.0 million; upgrades to the Tipton plant in the UK of $3.4 million, expenditures of $9.8 million related to the Companys new headquarters facility, which includes the research and development innovation center; and $4.1 million for a SAP re-implementation project. The expenditures for the period ended September 30, 2014 were primarily for improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky and Pearlington, Mississippi manufacturing facilities, along with SAP re-implementation project expenditures. Capital expenditures for 2015 are currently projected to be approximately $60 million to $65 million. The aforementioned expenditures are expected to be funded by operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings. The Company received proceeds related to government grants of $1.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Refer to Note 14 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for further details. Cash and cash equivalents include $ 39.4 million and $41.7 million held by the Companys foreign subsidiaries as of September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. Generally, cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries are not readily available for use in the U.S. without adverse tax consequences. The Companys principal sources of liquidity are its cash flows from 22 Table of Contents its operating activities or borrowings directly from its lines of credit. The Company does not believe the level of its non-U.S. cash position will have an adverse effect on working capital needs, planned growth, repayment of maturing debt, or benefit plan funding. Contingencies The Company is involved in various legal proceedings, lawsuits and claims, including employment, product warranty and environmental matters of a nature considered normal to its business. It is the Companys policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the loss amount is reasonably estimable. Refer to Note 11 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on recently issued accounting guidance. Outlook Activated Carbon and Service The Companys estimate of a 10.8% compound annual growth rate for the activated carbon market for the period 2012 through 2017 is predicated on significant demand for mercury removal carbons in North America primarily driven by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys (EPA) regulations surrounding Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) and, significant increases in activated carbon usage in China. As discussed below, long-term demand pursuant to MATS is unknown at this time pending ongoing court determinations. In addition, while there have been noted increases in the demand for activated carbon in China, the recent economic slowdown in China may lead to lower than previously forecasted demand for activated carbon. The Companys activated carbon and service sales volume for nine months of 2015 increased 2.6% over the comparable period in 2014. In 2012, in order to meet the expected increase in activated carbon demand, the Company completed the expansion of its Pearl River facility adding approximately 8 million pounds of granular activated carbon production per year. In addition, a similar project to expand one of the Companys three virgin production lines at its Big Sandy facility commenced in the third quarter of 2014. Other sources of incremental capacity include increased utilization of the Companys activated carbon reactivation capacity in all three of its regions (Americas, Europe and Asia); operational improvements at the Companys virgin carbon manufacturing facilities due to new capital investments; a third-party plant efficiency study completed in the first half of 2014; an ongoing product rationalization project that has provided a reduction in stock keeping units (SKU) of 45%; and, the sale of outsourced carbons. Finally, the Company continues to evaluate other opportunities for virgin activated carbon expansion including a significant expansion of one of the Companys existing facilities. Impediments to near-term growth could include an economic slowdown in any or all of the regions served, impacts from delays in environmental regulations, the impact of the strength of the U.S. dollar or a significant reduction in demand for activated carbon used to remove mercury from coal-fired electric power plants in the United States pursuant to a recent U.S. Supreme Court decision more fully discussed below. The Company believes that fair pricing for activated carbon in the United States of America is being achieved via the application of a tariff imposed on Chinese steam activated carbon. Under the anti-dumping rules, importers of steam activated carbon from China are potentially required to pay anti-dumping duties. The United States Department of Commerce (Commerce Department) conducts reviews in order to determine whether changes (increases or decreases) should be made to the anti-dumping tariff rate applicable to any foreign exporter. These retrospective reviews occur annually while the anti-dumping duty order (the order) is in effect (the current order is scheduled to expire in March 2017). Refer to Note 11 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. The Companys most recent price increase was announced in February 2013. Raw material costs for production in 2015 are expected to decline compared to 2014. The most significant raw material cost is coal. The quantity of coal consumed varies based on the overall production levels achieved as well as the mix of products manufactured during the year. The Company expects its total cost of coal to decrease in 2015 primarily as a result of lower pricing achieved from two five-year coal contracts signed in December 2013. These contracts represent approximately 71% of the Companys current annual coal requirements. As of September 30, 2015, the Company has approximately 86% of its 2015 anticipated coal requirements under contract or in inventory. The Company continues to make research and development expenditures primarily related to its advanced FLUEPAC products. These products were introduced to significantly reduce the amount of powdered activated carbon (PAC) required for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas when compared to competing products. PAC is recognized today by the EPA as the leading 23 Table of Contents abatement technology for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas. On December 21, 2011, the EPA issued the MATS regulation requiring mercury and other substances to be removed from the flue gas of coal-fired power plants. The final MATS regulation became effective on April 16, 2012. Compliance with MATS was required in April 2015, however, newly installed equipment and/or plants determined to be on reliability critical paths were able to get extensions of up to an additional two years. On June 29, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court in a 5-4 decision reversed the decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit) which held that the EPA did not need to consider costs when deciding to regulate power plant emissions and has remanded the case back to the D.C. Circuit. The MATS Rule (the Rule) currently remains in effect and the long-term status of the Rule is unknown at this time. It is possible that the D.C. Circuit could, among other options, vacate the Rule, stay compliance with the Rule for a period of time, or leave the Rule in effect. The final decision by the D.C. Circuit could take months and in the meantime, the Company anticipates that utilities will continue to treat for mercury using FLUEPAC products. There are also mercury removal regulations for the flue gas of coal-fired power plants that remain in effect for certain states and Canadian provinces. In addition to MATS, the EPA has promulgated mercury removal regulations related to industrial boilers and cement manufacturers. Compliance dates for cement manufacturers and industrial boilers are September 9, 2015 and January 31, 2016, respectively. The Company still believes that mercury removal could become the largest U.S. market for activated carbon and has made great strides in establishing itself as a market leader. Based on standard carbon products, the Company estimates the annual demand for mercury removal in North America may grow to as much as 340 million to 470 million pounds by 2017 depending upon the D.C Circuits remand decision on MATS. The Companys advanced products for mercury removal which have carbon usage rates of 50% to 90% less than alternative products, are important to its ongoing success in this market. Market acceptance of the Companys advanced FLUEPAC products is growing. Bidding activity with electric utilities has been active and is resulting in the receipt of significant, new orders for the Companys FLUEPAC products. The Company currently believes approximately one-third of this market is represented by the 19 states and certain Canadian provinces that have regulations in place that require mercury removal. The Company estimates that those utilities that were required to comply with the MATS regulation by April 2015 will also comprise approximately one-third of the potential mercury removal market with the remaining approximate one third of the potential market being comprised of utilities that have received extensions to MATS regulation compliance all subject to the D.C. Circuits remand decision noted above. In the first nine months and full year of 2014, the Companys sales into this market totaled approximately $20.5 million and $28.7 million, respectively. During the first nine months of 2015, the Company reported sales of $46.3 million, an increase of approximately 126% versus the comparable period in 2014. The Companys expectation is that its ongoing share of the value of this market will be at least 30%. Compliance with other emissions regulations such as the EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and Carbon Pollution Standards (CPS) could significantly impact the amount of carbon utilized by electric utilities for compliance with MATS. In September 2013, the EPA released a Carbon Pollution Standards proposal for new electric generating units. The standards for new units are likely to have little impact on activated carbon usage in the future; however, in August of 2015, the EPA finalized CPS for existing electric generating units. The Company continues to evaluate the rule, but believes that the CPS for existing units could have a negative impact on future activated carbon demand for electric generators, should generators opt to retire or repower their coal-fired electric generation units. The Company believes the majority of U.S. electric utilities are still working to understand CSAPR and CPSs impact, in addition to awaiting further resolution of MATS, before implementing an integrated treatment approach to more broadly address how to invest in pollution control equipment across their power plant fleet. In addition, long-term lower natural gas costs will likely also impact this market as electric generation facilities could shift production from coal to natural gas. It should also be noted that wide-spread adoption of the Companys advanced mercury removal products could also reduce the pounds of activated carbon needed for mercury removal. Adverse market conditions coupled with a strong adoption of the Companys advanced mercury removal carbons, could significantly reduce the eventual market volume opportunity to a level below the low end of aforementioned forecasted demand of 340 million to 470 million pounds of standard activated carbon. However, in that case, the Company could expect to increase its share of this market. In addition to mercury regulations in North America, China has announced plans for mercury removal from its coal-fired power plants. The plans, as announced, stipulate levels of mercury removal that would not likely result in large activated carbon sales. However, trials will purportedly be conducted to establish removal requirements. Treatment of municipal drinking water remains a growth driver for the Company. An important driver of recent growth has been the treatment of Disinfection Byproducts (DBPs). DBPs are compounds that form when natural occurring organic materials in drinking water sources react with the chemicals used to disinfect the water. Granular activated carbon (GAC) is recognized by the EPA as a best available control technology (BACT) for the reduction of DBPs. The EPAs Stage 2 Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproducts Rule (the DBP Rule) is in its final stages of implementation and the Company continues to see some new business associated with municipal water utilities installing GAC for Stage 2 compliance. There remains further potential for additional new 24 Table of Contents GAC installations should many of the nations largest water utilities who currently use alternative disinfectants (such as chloramines) as their primary means to comply with Stage 2 choose to move to GAC for the DBP Rule compliance. The potential exists for some of these utilities to convert from chloramines to GAC due to some of the down-sides associated with the use of chloramines, such as their propensity to form emerging classes of disinfection by-products, many of which are not yet regulated but are under study by the EPA. The EPA has now begun its Six Year Review of the DBP Rule, and a new Stage 3 Rule, which could drive additional GAC sales. Additionally, the Company expects growth in its custom reactivation service business from utilities that have installed GAC for DBP compliance and later convert to reactivated carbon. A growing number of utilities have entered into multi-year contracts with the Company for ongoing reactivation services. While many of the large projects related to the implementation of the DBP Rule have been completed, a number of other market drivers are contributing to continued growth of the Companys municipal water business. The need to protect community water supplies from harmful algal toxins is driving increasing demand for both GAC and PAC. Barriers such as GAC can protect water treatment plants from the harmful effects of algal bloom toxicity, while increased dosing of PAC can also help when algal blooms are detected. Chemical spills in waterways that serve as sources for drinking water highlight the need for utilities that draw from such sources to provide barrier defenses against such events. GAC is an ideal technology for this purpose and we expect growth in this area as more utilities look to install GAC to provide protection against spills. The drought conditions that remain prevalent in the western United States are also driving increased interest in direct potable reuse, where wastewater is further treated via advanced technologies such as GAC and ultraviolet light and then fed directly into the drinking water supplies. While the number of communities that have instituted direct potable reuse is currently small, many more are now studying implementation of this approach, driven again by the scarcity of water. In Europe, the Company was awarded a multi-year contract by a large water provider in the United Kingdom (UK). The Company will supply virgin carbon and reactivation services for up to a ten year period and plans to restart and upgrade its Tipton plant in the UK for that purpose. The planned upgrades are estimated to require $9.5 million of capital expenditures and will be completed in stages. This plant, having a current estimated annual capacity of approximately 11 million pounds, has begun undergoing equipment modifications and a significant capacity expansion. The plant should return to operation with the additional capacity and planned upgrades completed in the fourth quarter of 2015. China also announced that it will commit billions of dollars to water and wastewater improvements. Equipment The Companys equipment business is somewhat cyclical in nature and depends on both regulations and the general health of the overall economy. The Company believes that U.S. demand for its ultraviolet light (UV) systems will continue, as smaller municipalities must meet implementation deadlines for EPA regulations to treat for Cryptosporidium in drinking water. UV remains the technology of choice for controlling Cryptosporidium and Giardia under the U.S. EPA LT2 regulations. The Company also believes that demand for its ballast water treatment systems will grow. The U.S. Coast Guard issued its ballast water treatment rule on March 23, 2012 (Coast Guard Rule). The Coast Guard Rule addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water and ultimately requires U.S. Type Approval for treatment systems used in U.S. waters. Ships wishing to release ballast water into U.S. waters must operate an acceptable treatment system on all ships built after December 1, 2013; on medium ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2014; and, on small and large ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2016. Ship operators can seek an extension of the fore mentioned compliance dates from the Coast Guard by citing the lack of availability of U.S. Type Approved ballast water treatment systems. As of September 25, 2015, 2,105 such extensions have been granted to operators that otherwise would have been required to purchase ballast water treatment equipment under the Rule. The granting of these extensions despite the existence of acceptable but not yet U.S. Type Approved systems (like the Hyde GUARDIAN) has had a dampening effect on the market. The Coast Guard Rules discharge limits match the numerical limits proposed by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) but the Coast Guard is more prescriptive as to testing methodology than is the IMO. The only test method currently referenced in the Coast Guard Rule cannot measure the effectiveness of UV based systems like the Companys Hyde GUARDIAN and the other best selling systems. The Coast Guard in conjunction with the EPA is considering alternate test methods used by other nations to approve UV based ballast water treatment systems. Hyde Marine and other ballast water treatment system manufacturers whose technology includes the use of ultraviolet light, routinely used in the disinfection of drinking water, are working with the Coast Guard and the EPA in an effort to clarify the criteria in the Coast Guard Rule. There are five Independent Laboratories (IL) approved by the Coast Guard to work with manufacturers in the Type Approval process: NSF International (NSF), located in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Det Norske Veritas (DNV) AS, located in Hovik, Norway, Korean Register of Shipping, located in Busan, Korea, Control Union Certifications BV located in the Netherlands, and Lloyds Register EMEA located in the United Kingdom. The ILs have begun working with manufacturers on testing for U.S. Type Approval a process that is expected to take from one to three years. In the interim, ships may discharge ballast water in U.S. ports for a period of five years after their original compliance date if they operate a ballast water treatment system that has been designated as an 25 Table of Contents Alternate Management System (AMS) by the Coast Guard. To qualify for this status, the equipment supplier must possess an international Type Approval, and must demonstrate to the Coast Guard that the equipment performs at least as well as ballast water exchange. The Company was granted AMS status for its Hyde GUARDIAN ballast water treatment system effective April 15, 2013. In 2004, the IMO adopted the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (BWMC) which, like the Coast Guard Rule, addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water. The regulations requiring ballast water treatment will become effective one year after 30 countries representing 35% of the worlds shipping tonnage ratify the BWMC. The BWMC has now been signed by 44 countries representing 32.89% of the worlds current shipping tonnage. The BWMC is expected to be phased in over a six-year period following ratification and, coupled with the Coast Guard Rule, will require an estimated 64,000 vessels to install ballast water treatment systems. The Company believes that the total ballast water treatment market will approximate $28 billion after ratification of the BWMC. The Hyde GUARDIAN system, which employs filtration and ultraviolet light technology to filter and disinfect ballast water, offers cost, safety, and technological advantages. Hyde GUARDIAN has received Type Approval from Lloyds Register on behalf of the U.K. Maritime and Coast Guard Agency which confirms compliance with the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention. Hyde GUARDIAN has also received Class Society Type Approval from Lloyds Register (LR), American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), and Russian Maritime Registry of Shipping (RS). The strategic acquisition of Hyde Marine provided the Company immediate entry into a global, regulation driven market with major long-term growth potential. To date, most of the Hyde GUARDIAN systems sold have been for new ship builds but long term, most of Hydes sales will be for systems retrofitted into existing ships. During 2012, 2013 and 2014, the number of new ship builds was significantly lower than in prior years and the retrofit market for ballast water equipment has been slow to ramp up owing to the delay in ratification of the IMO BWMC and the fore mentioned Coast Guard extensions. This, along with the more recent shift in oil and gas economics has suppressed the number of Hyde GUARDIAN orders received. During the first nine months of 2015, the Company sold more than 30 ballast water treatment systems. During 2014, 2013, 2012, and 2011, the Company sold 113, 64, 68 and 82 ballast water treatment systems, respectively. Subsequent to the January 2010 acquisition of Hyde Marine, the Company has sold over 400 systems valued at approximately $88 million. Backlog for the Equipment segment as of September 30, 2015 was $12.4 million, while backlog as of December 31, 2014 was $19.8 million. Consumer The Companys Consumer segment supplies activated carbon cloth for use in medical, military, and specialty applications. The Company anticipates future growth in medical applications for wound care as its cloth aids in the healing process while providing odor control. The Company recently began to dedicate marketing and sales resources to this area of its business, and expects to see modest annual growth beginning in 2016. Critical Accounting Policies There were no material changes to the Companys critical accounting policies as disclosed in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 201 4.