Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Key Performance Indicators - Annual Renewal Rates of this annual report. 6 Table of Contents Our Business Segments Our reportable segment structure comprises three segments: Academia & Government (A&G), Intellectual Property (IP), and Life Sciences & Healthcare (LS&H). This structure allows us to provide substantial scale for our vertical market customers while still leveraging our shared-services to operate efficiently across horizontal workflows and functions. Within each of our segments, we provide the following information, solution, and service capabilities: Enriched Data - comprehensive, curated content collections. Analytics & Insights - on-demand predictive analytics capabilities to inform decision making. Workflow Software - automated workflow, including SaaS, to enable decisions and manage resources. Expert Services - business-critical regulatory and compliance activities support. Additional information with respect to business segment results is included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 16 - Segment Information in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. A&G Segment (50% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023) Our A&G segments mission is to help our customers educate the world by advancing research excellence and student success to accelerate real-world outcomes. We help academic and government institutions advance knowledge to build a better world. Within the A&G segment, we provide Research and Analytics, Content Aggregation, and Workflow Software solutions in striving to accomplish our mission. Research and Analytics Content Aggregation Workflow Software Description Analyze and explore the academic research landscape and manage research information Provide comprehensive content collections to institutions in a cost-effective manner Manage academic resources and services, connect users, and support research publication Notable Solutions and Products Web of Science InCites ProQuest One Ebook Central Alma Polaris Curated Information Set Database of 7+ billion digital pages, 2.4+ billion bibliographic records, 2+ billion citations, 245+ million journal articles, 5+ million dissertations, and 1.8+ million E-books A significant portion of our product development efforts is focused on leveraging AI to drive enhanced value for our A&G segment customer-base. For example, we use AI to identify academic journals within the Web of Science that show outlier characteristics, to ensure our customers are confident that they can trust all indexed journals and continue to deliver gold-standard content. Trained machine learning algorithms flag these journals to our in-house editors who conduct a thorough analysis of the journal and whether it continues to meet our standards. We also have integrated generative AI, LLMs, and other AI tools and technology into our A&G solutions, which provide students, faculty, and researchers with rapid access to detailed and contextual information and relevant recommendations. Example Use Cases A physics professor planning a research program and preparing a proposal for grant funding could utilize the Web of Science to reveal emerging research trends by discipline and gaps in the current literature where further research is needed, understand the competitive landscape, and identify potential collaborators. A university provost interested in evaluating the chemistry department at her institution can use the Web of Science and its associated analytical tool, InCites, to measure research performance of the team and individuals using indicators of impact and collaboration, benchmark the strength of the universitys research output compared to other global institutions, and evaluate faculty productivity to assist in strategic planning and resource allocation. A library, university, or research institution looking to improve the quality or scope of its content, discovery solutions, or related software applications can use Alma, Polaris, ProQuest One, and Ebook Central to manage its collections and provide its users with access to high-value curated content. IP Segment (33% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023) Our IP segments mission is to enable organizations worldwide to unlock innovation, establish strong brands, and effectively protect critical IP assets through our trusted IP data, software, and expertise. We help customers establish, 7 Table of Contents protect, and manage their intellectual property. Within the IP segment, we provide IP Maintenance, IP Intelligence, and IP Management solutions in striving to accomplish our mission. IP Maintenance IP Intelligence IP Management Description Support paralegal and admin tasks throughout the patent and trademark protection and maintenance process Support critical decisions around patent and trademark protection, risk, and value creation throughout the innovation and brand lifecycle Create a structured environment for the effective protection and management of global patent and trademark assets Notable Solutions and Products Patent and Trademark Renewals CompuMark Derwent IPFolio Foundation IP Curated Information Set 150+ million patent documents; 26,000 unique classifications of structured patent insights; 140+ million trademark records; 9+ million IP law cases A significant portion of our product development efforts are focused on leveraging AI to drive enhanced value for our IP segment customer-base. For example, the CompuMark Naming Tool uses generative AI to automate the process of brainstorming new brand names, simultaneously analyzing them for potential usability. Trained on US, EU, and Pharma In-Use databases, our proprietary AI algorithm generates creative name suggestions based on customer criteria in seconds, simultaneously analyzing them against existing domain names and social media handles. Example Use Case An employee developing a new product or idea (e.g., a chemical engineer or a product designer) will access the Derwent database of patents to evaluate the novelty and determine the patentability of the new product or idea. An attorney for a large law firm helps clear a trademark for use by its corporate customer as part of a new product launch. The attorney first conducts a knock-out search as part of a preliminary screening process using our Trademark Searching tool and then later orders an analyst curated Full Search report by CompuMark to ensure the availability of the proposed trademark in the markets in which the customer will be operating. In this way, the attorney can clear both the word and image mark for use by the client. The attorney will then subscribe to CompuMarks Trademark Watching services solution to continually ensure that none of their customers valuable trademarks are being infringed upon. A law firm partnership uses FoundationIP to provide renewal and validation of IP rights on behalf of a customer. LS&H Segment (17% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023) Our LS&H segments mission is to empower our customers to deliver treatments that improve patient lives and create a healthier tomorrow. Our intelligence solutions, transformative data and technology equip our customers with the insight and foresight needed across all of their initiatives from early-stage drug discovery right through commercialization and beyond. Within the LS&H segment, we provide Research and Development, Regulatory and Safety, and Commercialization solutions in striving to accomplish our mission. Research and Development Regulatory and Safety Commercialization Description Support the development of new drugs and medical devices from discovery to clinical trials Efficiently monitor drug safety issues and adhere to the latest global regulatory protocols Effectively inform commercial launch strategy and set pricing for optimal reimbursement Notable Solutions and Products Cortellis Competitive Intelligence Cortellis Drug Discovery Intelligence Cortellis Regulatory Intelligence OFF-X Real World Data (RWD) Optimize Curated Information Set 48+ billion patient claims & EHR records; proprietary disease insights covering 200+ diseases and biomarkers across 45+ countries and 3,500+ patient segments; A significant portion of our product development efforts are focused on leveraging AI to drive enhanced value for our LS&H segment customer base. For example, to speed up drug development and better ensure that the right medicines reach the right patients, we are drawing on our connected data in Cortellis and using machine learning to predict clinical trials progression, regulatory approvals and even valuations on merger and acquisition candidates. 8 Table of Contents Example Use Case A researcher at a pharmaceutical company who is evaluating several potential R&D programs will access the Cortellis database to assess competitive products in the drug development pipeline, review clinical trial data, and summarize regulatory information. A data analyst at a biopharma company seeking to benchmark forecasts using data on the total potential and addressable market will utilize RWD to corroborate forecasts and validate investments using bottom-up forecasting. An analyst at a medical technology company responsible for commercializing drugs or devices uses Optimize products to analyze markets and determine which payers, providers, or patients to target. Our Competition We believe the principal competitive factors in our business include the depth, breadth, timeliness, and accuracy of database content and analysis, the ease of use related to content delivery platforms and management software, and value for price. We believe we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. Although we face competition in specific markets and with respect to specific offerings, including related to developing and implementing AI, we do not believe that we have a direct competitor across all of the markets we serve due to the depth and breadth of our offerings. Intellectual Property We own and generate a significant amount of intellectual property, including registered trademarks, trademark applications, domain names, patents (both granted and pending), and expertly curated, interconnected data assets. We also own certain proprietary software, including AI products and services. In addition, we are licensed to use certain third-party software and we obtain significant content and data through third-party licensing arrangements with content providers. We consider our trademarks, service marks, data assets, software, and other IP to be proprietary, and we rely on a combination of statutory (e.g., copyright, trademark, trade secret, and patent), contractual, and technical safeguards to protect our IP rights. We believe that the IP we own and license is sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted. Our agreements with our customers and business partners place certain restrictions on the use of our IP. As a general practice, employees, contractors, and other parties with access to our proprietary information sign agreements that prohibit the unauthorized use or disclosure of our IP and confidential information. Our People At Clarivate, we have prioritized enhancing our colleague experience and creating a work environment that attracts and retains top talent from around the world. Our overarching goal is to create a strong foundation on which we can build for the future to ensure we have career pathways and development opportunities for our talented workforce. We continue to promote a work environment where we can be our authentic selves respecting and celebrating our differences. We foster a values-led culture that begins with our vision that we fuel the worlds greatest breakthroughs by harnessing the power of human ingenuity. Our mission is to advance the success of people and organizations through transformative intelligence and trusted partnership. Our values help us achieve our goals with ambition (We aim for greatness), integrity (We own our actions), and respect for the people around us (We value every voice). We provide a variety of colleague-oriented programs and benefits to attract, retain, and develop a productive and engaged workforce. As of December 31, 2023, we had more than 12,000 employees located in 42 countries around the world. The following charts illustrate our employees by segment and by geography: 9 Table of Contents Inclusion and Diversity Treating one another with fairness, dignity, and respect are fundamental to our purpose and mission. We believe that people coming together from different cultures and backgrounds, with different life experiences, is essential to sparking new ideas and accelerating our progress. We know that colleagues who feel engaged and included will be the most proactive and productive. Our goal is to weave these principles into the fabric of our culture to become a recognized global employer of choice. Diversity is an integral part of our principles of corporate governance, and the Board believes that its membership should be composed of highly qualified directors from diverse backgrounds. As such, the Nominating and Governance Committee actively considers diversity (including gender, age, ethnicity, and geographic background) in the recruitment of directors. We have initiated a Council for Inclusion and Diversity at Clarivate, chaired by the CEO. The council focuses on a five-pillar framework of Leadership and Strategy, Culture, Workplace Practices, Business Integration, and Community Impact to guide our inclusion and diversity efforts. For example, some of our initiatives include providing non-bias training and education, increasing colleague resource group activities and participation, and supporting diversity throughout our supply chain and in our communities. This year, Clarivate received a score of 80 (out of 100) on the Human Rights Campaign Foundations 2023-2024 Corporate Equality Index, the nations foremost benchmarking survey and report measuring corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ+ workplace equality. Clarivate improved our score to 80 from 75 last year, demonstrating our commitment and progress to an inclusive workplace culture. Attraction, Development, and Retention We have a dedicated talent acquisition team whose priority is to attract the best, most suitable candidates using such channels as proactive sourcing, connecting through universities, ad campaigns, and referrals. Their goal is to identify a diverse, qualified candidate pool and to provide a positive candidate experience throughout the interview and hiring process. Current colleagues also are a key source of talent, and we have a number of opportunities enabling colleagues to thrive and advance their careers. We recently launched a new approach to our internal mobility process with the goal of making it easier for our colleagues to grow their career internally rather than seeking an opportunity with another employer. Our learning and development philosophy is about bringing our values, diverse culture, and opportunities to life. Its about empowering each colleague to bring their best self to work every day and providing a range of opportunities to help them develop the knowledge and skills they need to be successful. We encourage colleagues to take advantage of the more than 5,000 self-paced eLearning resources available on our Learning Management System platform as well as the many live and virtual training sessions we offer regularly throughout the year. We align our training offerings to our competency model, building a foundation for career development and advancement. We conduct a colleague engagement survey twice a year to gauge overall colleague satisfaction and gather feedback on what colleagues feel is going well and what areas need improvement. We are committed to listening, learning, and acting upon the feedback we receive through the survey to make Clarivate an even better place for our colleagues to work and achieve success. Our overall colleague satisfaction score increased from 74 (out of 100) in 2022 to 75 in 2023, with a participation rate of 87 percent, well above the benchmark. We believe that the increased score reflects our continuing commitment to actively address survey responses to strengthen our workforce and improve our workplace. 10 Table of Contents We have invested in a robust health and well-being strategy to encourage healthier and happier colleagues. Our global Employee Assistance Program provides confidential emotional support, legal guidance, financial resources, and online support. In addition, our Be Well platform offers a personalized experience to help colleagues build healthy habits, such as reducing stress, eating healthier, tracking sleep, and exercising regularly with personal and team challenge incentives. We strive to offer equitable pay and competitive salaries and wages, and we offer a comprehensive benefits and rewards package, including healthcare, insurance benefits, retirement savings plans, and more. We also provide 40 hours of paid volunteer time off to each of our colleagues in support of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Available Information Our internet address is clarivate.com and our investor relations website is ir.clarivate.com. On or through our investor relations website, we make available, free of charge, printable copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. On our website, we also make available printable copies of our Amended and Restated Memorandum of Association, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee Charter, Risk and Sustainability Committee Charter, Human Resources and Compensation Committee Charter, Nominating and Governance Committee Charter, Code of Conduct, and other corporate policies. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our ordinary shares involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described herein before making a decision to invest in our ordinary shares. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We are dependent on third parties, including public sources, for data, information, and other services, and our relationships with such third parties may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Substantially all our products and services are developed using data, information or services obtained from third-party providers and public sources or are made available to our customers or are integrated for our customers use through information and technology solutions provided by third-party service providers. We have commercial relationships with third-party providers whose capabilities complement our own and, in some cases, these providers are also our competitors. The priorities and objectives of these providers, particularly those that are our competitors, may differ from ours, which may make us vulnerable to unpredicted price increases and unfavorable licensing terms. Agreements with such third-party providers periodically come up for renewal or renegotiation, and there is a risk that such negotiations may result in different rights and restrictions which could impact our customers use of the content. From time to time, we may also receive notices from third parties claiming infringement by our products and services of third-party patent and other IP rights and as the number of products and services in our markets increases and the functionality of these products and services further overlaps with third-party products and services, we may become increasingly subject to claims by a third party that our products and services infringe on such partys IP rights. Moreover, providers that are not currently our competitors may become competitors or be acquired by or merge with a competitor in the future, any of which could reduce our access to the information and technology solutions provided by those companies. Any of the foregoing risks may be exacerbated by our use of AI, or that of our competitors or third-party service providers. If we do not maintain, or obtain the expected benefits from, our relationships with third-party providers or if a substantial number of our third-party providers or any key service providers were to withdraw their services, we may be less competitive, our ability to offer products and services to our customers may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and services. In recent years, more public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become available and this trend is expected to continue. Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products and services. Competition from such free or lower cost sources may also require us to reduce the price of some of our products and services (which may result in lower revenues) or make additional capital investments (which might result in lower profit margins). Demand could also be reduced as a result of cost-cutting, reduced spending or reduced activity by customers. Our 11 Table of Contents results of operations could be adversely affected if our customers choose to use these public sources as a substitute for our products or services. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and we may be adversely affected by competition and other changes in our markets. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and are subject to rapid technological changes and evolving customer demands and needs. We compete on the basis of various factors, including the quality of content embedded in our databases, customers perception of our products relative to the value that they deliver, user interface of the products and the quality of our overall offerings. Many of our principal competitors are established companies that have substantial financial resources, recognized brands, technological expertise and market experience, and these competitors sometimes have more established positions in certain product lines and geographies than we do. We also compete with smaller and sometimes newer companies, some of which are specialized with a narrower focus than our company, and with other Internet services companies and search providers. New and emerging technologies, including without limitation, AI, can also have the impact of allowing start-up companies to enter the market more quickly than they would have been able to in the past. In addition, some of our competitors combine competing products with complementary products as packaged solutions, which could pre-empt use of our products or solutions and some of our customers may decide to independently develop certain products and services. If we fail to compete effectively, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We generate a significant percentage of our revenues from recurring subscription-based arrangements and highly predictable re-occurring transactional (re-occurring) arrangements. If we are unable to maintain a high annual renewal rate, our results of operations could be adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2023, approximately 79% of our revenues were subscription-based and re-occurring based. Because most of the revenues we report in each quarter are the result of subscription and re-occurring agreements entered into or renewed in previous quarters, with subscription renewals historically concentrated in the first quarter, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter may not affect our results in that quarter, but could reduce revenues in future quarters. Our operating results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on our existing subscription and re-occurring arrangements and to obtain new subscriptions and re-occurring contracts with new and existing customers at competitive prices and other commercially acceptable terms. Uncertain global economic conditions, including inflationary pressures and rising interest rates, have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business, including on our revenues from re-occurring revenues arrangements. Failure to meet one or more of these subscription and re-occurring objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our introduction and use of AI, and the integration of AI with our products and services, may not be successful and may present business, compliance, and reputational challenges which could lead to operational or reputational damage, competitive harm, and additional costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have incorporated, and may continue to incorporate, AI in our products and services and this incorporation of AI in our business and operations may become more significant over time. The use of generative AI, a relatively new and emerging technology in the early stages of commercial use, exposes us to additional risks, such as damage to our reputation, competitive position, and business, and additional costs. While generative AI may help provide more tailored or personalized experiences or output, if the content, analyses, or recommendations produced by any of our products or services that use or incorporate generative AI are, or are perceived to be, deficient, inaccurate, biased, unethical, or otherwise flawed, our reputation, competitive position, and business may be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if any of our employees, contractors, vendors, or service providers use any third-party software incorporating AI in connection with our business or the services they provide to us, it may lead to the inadvertent disclosure or incorporation of our confidential, sensitive, or proprietary information into publicly available training sets which may impact our ability to realize the benefit of, or adequately maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property or sensitive or confidential information, harming our competitive position and business. Our ability to mitigate risks associated with disclosure of our proprietary, sensitive, or confidential information, including in connection with the use of AI, will depend on our implementation, maintenance, monitoring, and enforcement of appropriate technical and administrative safeguards, policies, and procedures governing the use of AI in our business. Any output created by us using generative AI may not be subject to copyright protection, which may adversely affect our or our customers intellectual property rights in, or ability to commercialize or use, any such content. In addition, the use of AI may result in cybersecurity incidents that implicate the personal data of users of our AI tools or technologies. Furthermore, our competitors, customers, or other third parties may 12 Table of Contents incorporate AI into their products more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively. If any third-party AI tools are trained using or otherwise leverage any of our proprietary data or data sets, our competitive advantage may be impaired, and our ability to commercialize our own AI tools or such data and data sets may be undermined, damaging our operations and business. The increasing use of generative AI by third parties may also negatively impact the integrity of our own proprietary data, data sets, and content databases if and to the extent that any invalid, inaccurate, biased, or otherwise flawed data produced by any such AI systems may inadvertently be incorporated in our proprietary data, data sets, or content databases, negatively affecting our reputation, relationship with publishers, and the value of our proprietary data, data sets, or content databases. As generative AI and other AI tools are relatively new, sophisticated and evolving quickly, we cannot predict all of the risks that may arise from our current or future use of AI in our business. We expect that the incorporation of AI in our business will require additional resources, including the incurrence of additional costs, to develop and maintain our AI-related products and services, to minimize potentially harmful or unintended consequences, to maintain or extend our competitive position, and to address any ethical, reputational, technical, operational, legal, or competitive issues which may arise and our customers may not accept or be able to pay a premium for advanced AI capabilities in certain of the markets in which we operate. Any of the foregoing and any similar issues, whether actual or perceived, could negatively impact our customers experience and diminish the perceived quality and value of our products and services. As a result, the challenges presented with our use of AI could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regulatory and legislative developments related to the use of AI could adversely affect our use of such technologies in our products, services, and business and expose us to litigation and other legal and regulatory risks. We use AI, including machine learning and generative AI, in our business. To the extent that we do not have sufficient rights to use any data or other material or content produced by generative AI in our business, if we inadvertently expose third-party data or other material or content to AI, or if we experience cybersecurity incidents in connection with our use of AI, it could adversely affect our reputation and expose us to legal liability or regulatory risk, including with respect to third-party intellectual property, privacy, publicity, contractual, or other rights. The regulatory framework for AI and similar technologies, and automated decision making, is changing rapidly. New laws and regulations, or the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate may affect our ability to leverage AI and may expose us to legal and regulatory risks, government enforcement, or civil suits and may result in increases in our operational and development expenses that impact our ability to develop, earn revenue from, or utilize any products or services incorporating AI. As the regulatory framework for machine learning technology, generative AI, and automated decision making evolves, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. It is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted in both U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as the European Unions (EU) proposed Artificial Intelligence Act, which, if enacted, would have a material impact on the way AI is regulated in the EU, including significant fines for violations related to offering prohibited AI systems or data governance, high-risk AI systems and for supplying incorrect, incomplete, or misleading information to EU and member state authorities. It is also possible that existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in ways that would affect the operation of our business, including our data analytics products and services and the way in which we use AI and similar technologies in our business. We may not be able to adequately anticipate or respond to these evolving laws and regulations, and we may need to expend additional resources to adjust our products or services in certain jurisdictions if applicable legal frameworks are inconsistent across jurisdictions. Furthermore, in the U.S., a number of civil lawsuits have been initiated related to AI, which may, among other things, require us to limit the ways in which our AI tools and technologies are trained, refined, or implemented, and may affect our ability to develop products or services using or incorporating AI. While AI-related lawsuits to date have generally focused on certain foundational AI service providers and LLMs, our use of any output produced by generative AI may expose us to claims, including without limitation related to the permitted uses of certain content, increasing our risks of liability. In addition, because these technologies are themselves highly complex and rapidly developing, it is not possible to predict all of the legal or regulatory risks that may arise relating to our use of such technologies. The costs related to any litigation and to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to obtain, maintain, protect, defend, or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of physical, operational, and managerial protections of our confidential information and intellectual property and proprietary rights, including trademark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection laws, as well as confidentiality, assignment and license agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, vendors, service providers, customers, and other third parties with whom we have relationships. 13 Table of Contents The steps we take to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights require significant resources and may be inadequate. Effective trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent, and domain name protection is expensive to develop and maintain, both in terms of initial and ongoing registration requirements and expenses and the costs of defending and enforcing our rights. Given the costs and expenses of obtaining, maintaining, protecting, defending, and enforcing our intellectual property rights, we may choose not to obtain, maintain, protect, defend, or enforce certain rights that later turn out to be important to our business. We cannot guarantee that our efforts to obtain, maintain, protect, defend, or enforce our intellectual property rights are adequate or that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate permissions or protections for all of the intellectual property rights we use or rely on. Our registered or unregistered trademarks, tradenames, or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, misappropriated, or otherwise violated or declared invalid or unenforceable or determined to be infringing on other marks. Furthermore, even if we are able to obtain intellectual property rights, any challenge to our intellectual property rights could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable. We may be unable to prevent the misappropriation or disclosure of our proprietary information or deter independent development of similar products and services by others, which may diminish the value of our brand and other intangible assets and allow competitors to more effectively mimic our products and services. While it is our policy to require our employees, contractors, and other parties with whom we conduct business who may be involved in the conception or development of intellectual property for us to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party that conceives or develops intellectual property that we regard as ours. Additionally, any such assignment of intellectual property rights may not be self-executing, or the assignment agreements may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. Further, we cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that has or may have had access to our trade secrets, confidential information, software (including our AI tools), or other proprietary technology and, even if entered into, these agreements may otherwise fail to effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary or confidential rights, information, or technologies, may be limited as to their term, or may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure, misappropriation, use, or other violation of our trade secrets, confidential information, and other proprietary rights or technologies. We strive to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on foreign, federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. We pursue the registration of our domain names, patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in certain jurisdictions abroad. However, effective intellectual property protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which our products or services are made available, in every class of goods and services in which we operate, and contractual disputes may affect the use of intellectual property rights governed by private contract. We may not be able to obtain, maintain, protect, defend, or enforce our intellectual property rights in every foreign jurisdiction in which we operate. The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the enforcement of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other intellectual property protection, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of our intellectual property or marketing of competing products in violation of our intellectual property rights generally. In addition, third parties that provide AI products and services, including some which are publicly available, may have trained their LLMs or other AI tools or technology on our content without our consent and it may be difficult to enforce our copyrights and other intellectual property rights in connection with such unauthorized use, which could reduce demand for our products and services. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Intellectual property litigation, including litigation related to content provided using our products and services, could result in reputational damage and significant costs, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Companies in the technology industry are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, despite our efforts to ensure that our employees, contractors, consultants, vendors, and service providers do not use the intellectual property and other proprietary information or know-how of third-parties in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or our employees, contractors, consultants, vendors, or service providers have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, including copyrighted materials, trade secrets, know-how, software, or other proprietary information of a former employer or other third parties. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims and if we fail in defending any 14 Table of Contents such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. In addition, we may not qualify for the safe harbors established by laws in the United States and other countries protecting online service providers from claims related to content posted by users, or those laws could change in a manner making it difficult or impossible to qualify for such protection, increasing our exposure. While our terms and policies require users to respect the intellectual property rights of others, we have limited ability to influence the behavior of third parties, and there can be no assurance that these terms and policies will be sufficient to dissuade or prevent infringing activity by third parties using our products or services. Additionally, litigation may become necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is inherently uncertain due to the complex issues involved, and we may not be successful in defending ourselves in such matters. Any claims successfully brought against us could subject us to significant liability for damages and we may be required to stop using technology or other intellectual property alleged to be in violation of a third partys rights. We also might be required to seek a license for third-party intellectual property. Even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties or submit to unreasonable terms, which would increase our operating expenses. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant time and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any allegedly infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit our service and may be unable to compete effectively. In addition, some of our agreements with third-party partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property claims against them, which could require us to incur considerable costs in defending such claims, and may require us to pay significant damages in the event of an adverse ruling. Such third-party partners may also discontinue their relationships with us as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenue and adversely impact our business operations. Our use of AI, including generative AI, may heighten the foregoing risks, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to offer our solutions and subject us to possible litigation. Our products and services include open source software, and we may incorporate additional open source software in the future. Open source software is generally freely accessible, usable, and modifiable. Certain open source licenses may, in certain circumstances, require us to: (i) offer our products or services that incorporate the open source software for no cost; (ii) make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating, or using the open source software and (iii) license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license or otherwise unfavorable terms. The terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our products or services. While we try to insulate our proprietary software, including our AI tools, from the effects of such open source license provisions, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful, that all open source software is reviewed prior to use in our products, that our developers have not incorporated open source software into our products in potentially disruptive ways, or that they will not do so in the future. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software we use were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations. If such third parties are successful, we could be subject to liability, be required to make our proprietary software source code available under an open source license, purchase a license (which, if available, could be costly), or cease offering the implicated products or services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. This re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be able to complete it successfully on a timely basis, or at all. We could also be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Any litigation could be costly for us to defend, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition to risks related to open source license requirements, use of certain open source software may pose greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, since open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code, including with respect to security vulnerabilities. Moreover, some open source projects have known security and other vulnerabilities and architectural instabilities, or are otherwise subject to security attacks due to their wide availability, and are provided on an as-is basis. There is typically no support available for open source software, and we cannot ensure that the authors of such open source software will implement or push updates to address security risks or will not abandon further development and maintenance. Further, our use of any AI tools that use or incorporate any open source software may heighten any of the 15 Table of Contents foregoing risks. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any disruption in or unauthorized access to or breaches of our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyberattacks, could adversely impact our business. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain, and serve our customers is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations to collect, store, use, and otherwise process public records, IP, and proprietary, confidential, and sensitive data, including personal data. We expend significant resources to develop and secure our computer systems, IP, and proprietary, confidential, or sensitive data, including personal data, but they may be subject to damage or interruption from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, Internet and telecommunications failures, and cybersecurity risks such as cyberattacks, ransomware attacks, social engineering (including phishing attacks), computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from foreign governments, state-sponsored entities, hackers, organized cybercriminals, cyber terrorists, and individual threat actors (including malicious insiders), any of which may see their effectiveness further enhanced in the future by the use of AI. We have implemented certain systems and processes designed to thwart such threat actors and otherwise protect our computer systems and proprietary, confidential, or sensitive data, including personal data; however, the systems and processes we have adopted may not be effective, and, similar to many other global multinational companies, we have experienced and may continue to experience cyber-threats, cyberattacks and other attempts to breach the security of our systems or gain unauthorized access to our proprietary, confidential or sensitive data, including personal data. Any fraudulent, malicious, or accidental breach of our computer systems or data security protections (including due to malicious insiders or inadvertent employee errors) could result in unintentional disclosure of, or unauthorized access to, customer, vendor, employee, or our own confidential, proprietary sensitive data or other protected information, which could potentially result in additional costs to enhance security or to respond to such incidents, lost sales, violations of privacy or other laws, notifications to individuals, penalties, or litigation. Any failure of our computer systems, disruption to our operations, or unauthorized access to any of our computer systems or those of third parties upon whom we rely or with whom we partner, including our cloud computing and other service providers, vendors, contractors, and consultants, could result in, among other things, significant expense to repair, replace, or remediate such systems, equipment, or facilities, a loss of customers, legal or regulatory claims, and proceedings or fines and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, while we generally perform cybersecurity due diligence on our key vendors, service providers, contractors and consultants, if any of these third parties fail to adopt or adhere to adequate cybersecurity practices, or in the event of a breach, incident, disruption, or other compromise of their networks, computer systems, or applications, our or our customers proprietary, confidential, or sensitive data, including personal data, may be improperly lost, destroyed, modified, accessed, used, disclosed, or otherwise processed, which could subject us to claims, demands, proceedings, and liabilities. We do not have control over the operations of the facilities of the third-party cloud computing service or other key vendors, service providers, contactors, and consultants that we use. This, coupled with the fact that we cannot easily switch our computing operations and other computer systems to other service providers, means that any disruption of or interference with our use of our current third-party cloud computing service, or the services provided by our other vendors, service providers, contractors, and consultants could disrupt our operations, and our business could be adversely impacted. Although we may have contractual protections with our third-party vendors, service providers, contractors and consultants, any actual or perceived security breach, incident, or disruption could harm our reputation and brand, expose us to potential liability, or require us to expend significant resources on cybersecurity in responding to any such actual or perceived compromise, breach, incident, or disruption and negatively impact our business. Any contractual protections we may have from our third-party vendors, service providers, contractors, and consultants may not be sufficient to adequately protect us from any such liabilities and losses, and we may be unable to enforce any such contractual protections. If our products and services do not maintain and/or achieve broad market acceptance, or if we are unable to keep pace with or adapt to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, macroeconomic market conditions and changing regulatory requirements, our revenues could be adversely affected. Our business is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements, including, but not limited to, with respect to AI. Our growth and success depend upon our ability to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing customer needs and preferences. Our business could also be affected by macroeconomic factors beyond our control and our ability to keep pace with technology and business and regulatory changes is subject to a number of risks, including that we may find it difficult or costly to: 16 Table of Contents update our products and services and develop new products and services quickly enough to meet our customers needs; leverage AI, including generative AI, in our existing or newly developed products and services; make some features of our products work effectively and securely or with new or changed operating systems; and update our products and services to keep pace with business, evolving industry standards, regulatory requirements and other developments in the markets in which our customers operate. In addition, the principal customers for certain of our products and services are universities and government agencies, which fund purchases of these products and services from limited budgets that are sensitive to changes in private and governmental sources of funding. Recession, economic uncertainty or austerity have contributed, and may in the future contribute, to reductions in spending by such sources. Accordingly, any further decreases in budgets of universities or government agencies, which have remained under pressure, or changes in the spending patterns of private or governmental sources that fund academic institutions, could adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, key personnel could impair our future success. Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our employees, including our experts in research and analysis, as well as colleagues in sales, marketing, product development, critical operational roles, and management, including our executive officers. We must maintain our ability to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified employees in our respective segments in order to support our customers and achieve business results. In addition, as the world evolves in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have begun to adopt and implement return to office plans for our workforce. Certain of our employees who have benefited from the ability to work remotely may be resistant to calls to return to the office. To the extent plans we adopt are more restrictive than those of others in our industry, our ability to attract and retain talent may be materially and adversely affected. The loss of the services of key personnel and our inability to recruit effective replacements or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our collection, storage, and use of confidential, sensitive, or personal information or data are subject to applicable data protection and privacy laws, and any failure to comply with such laws may harm our reputation and business or expose us to fines and other enforcement action. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store, use, and transmit certain types of information that are subject to different laws and regulations. In particular, data security and data protection laws and regulations that we are subject to often vary significantly by jurisdiction. For example, in the U.S., there are numerous federal, state, and local privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity laws, rules, and regulations governing the collection, storage, transmission, use, and other processing of personal data and Congress has considered, and continues to consider, many proposals for additional comprehensive national data privacy and cybersecurity legislation. At the state level, we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act (as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (collectively, CCPA)), which imposes requirements, including disclosure requirements, access rights, opt out rights, and the right to request deletion of personal information, on covered companies that process California consumers personal information and provides for civil penalties for violations as well as a private right of action for certain data breaches. A number of other states have enacted, or are in the process of enacting or considering, similar comprehensive state-level privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity laws, rules, and regulations, creating the potential for a patchwork of overlapping but different state laws. In addition, all 50 states have laws that require the provision of notification for security breaches of personal information to affected individuals, state officers, or others. Possible consequences for non-compliance with these various state laws include enforcement actions in response to rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of federal agencies and state attorneys general and legislatures and consumer protection agencies. Outside of the United States, an increasing number of laws, rules, regulations, and industry standards apply to privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity, such as the EUs General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the UKs Data Protection Act 2018 as supplemented by the GDPR as implemented into UK law (collectively, UK GDPR), both of which impose similar, stringent data protection requirements. The GDPR and UK GDPR are wide-ranging in scope and impose numerous additional requirements on companies that process personal data, including imposing special requirements in respect of the processing of personal data, requiring that consent of individuals to whom the personal data relates is obtained in certain circumstances, requiring additional disclosures to individuals regarding data processing activities, requiring that safeguards are implemented to protect the security and confidentiality of personal data, creating mandatory data breach notification 17 Table of Contents requirements in certain circumstances, and requiring that certain measures (including contractual requirements) are put in place when engaging third-party processors. The GDPR and UK GDPR also provide individuals with various rights in respect of their personal data, including rights of access, erasure, portability, rectification, restriction, and objection. Failure to comply with the GDPR and the UK GDPR can result in significant fines and other liability. While the UK GDPR currently imposes substantially the same obligations as the GDPR, the UK GDPR will not automatically incorporate changes to the GDPR going forward, which creates a risk of divergent parallel regimes and related uncertainty, along with the potential for increased compliance costs and risks for affected businesses. Legal developments in the European Economic Area (EEA) and the UK, including rulings from the Court of Justice of the European Union, have also created complexity and uncertainty regarding processing and transfers of personal data from the EEA and the UK to the United States and other countries outside the EEA and the UK that have not been determined by the relevant data protection authorities to provide an adequate level of protection for privacy rights. Data security and data protection laws and regulations are continuously evolving and there are currently a number of legal challenges to the validity of EU mechanisms for adequate data transfers such as the EU-US Data Privacy Framework and the European Commissions Standard Contractual Clauses. Although we have implemented policies and procedures that are designed to ensure compliance with applicable privacy and data security laws, rules and regulations, the efficacy and longevity of these policies and procedures remains uncertain, and if our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with applicable current or future laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the EU ePrivacy Regulation, GDPR, UK GDPR and CCPA as well as those of other countries such as Indias Digital Personal Data Protection Act 2023, we will likely be required to modify our data collection or processing practices and policies in an effort to comply with such laws and regulations, and we could be subject to increased costs, fines, litigation, regulatory investigations, and enforcement notices requiring us to change the way we use personal data or our marketing practices or other liabilities such as compensation claims by individuals affected by a personal data breach, as well as negative publicity and a potential loss of business. Additionally, we may be bound by contractual requirements applicable to our collection, storage, transmission, use, and other processing of proprietary, confidential, and sensitive data, including personal data, and may be bound or asserted to be bound by, or voluntarily comply with, self-regulatory or other industry standards relating to these matters. Our business continuity plans may not be effective against events that may adversely impact our business. We have established operational policies and procedures that manage the risks associated with business continuity and recovery from potential disruptions to our business. These policies and procedures are designed to increase the likelihood that we are prepared to continue operations during times of unexpected disruption, and we have taken steps to minimize risks that could lead to disruptions in our operations and to avoid our customers being harmed in the event of a significant disruption in our operations. Our goal is to ensure organizational resilience across product sets. However, there is no guarantee that these measures will be effective in minimizing any disruption from unexpected events that could result from a variety of causes, including human error, natural disasters (such as hurricanes and floods), infrastructure or network failures (including failures at third-party data centers, by third-party cloud-computing providers, or of aging technology assets), and a disruption to our business that we are not capable of managing could adversely affect us. We may be unable to derive fully the anticipated benefits from organic growth, existing or future acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, or dispositions, including anticipated revenue and cost synergies, and costs associated with achieving synergies or integrating such acquisitions may exceed our expectations. We seek to achieve our growth objectives by optimizing our offerings to meet the needs of our customers through organic development, including by delivering integrated workflow platforms, cross-selling our products across our existing customer base, acquiring new customers, implementing operational efficiency initiatives, and through acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and dispositions. However, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of our acquisitions, including anticipated revenue, cost synergies or growth opportunities and we may not succeed in cross-selling our products and services. Moreover, we may not be able to integrate the assets acquired in any such acquisition or achieve our expected cost synergies without increases in costs or other difficulties. Furthermore, future acquisitions may not be completed on acceptable terms, and we may ultimately divest unsuccessful acquisitions or investments. Any acquisitions, investments, and dispositions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in such transactions, including, among other things, assuming potential liabilities of an acquired company, managing the potential disruption to our ongoing business, incurring expenses associated with the amortization of intangible assets, particularly for intellectual property and other intangible assets, incurring expenses associated with an impairment of all or a portion of goodwill and other intangible assets, and failing to implement or remediate controls, procedures, and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls. If we are unable to successfully execute on our strategies to achieve our growth objectives, drive operational efficiencies, realize our anticipated cost or revenue synergies or if we 18 Table of Contents experience higher than expected operating costs that cannot be adjusted accordingly, our growth rates and profitability could be adversely affected, and the market price of our ordinary shares may decline. Furthermore, acquisitions may subject us to new types of risks to which we were not previously exposed. Our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company, and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. Our ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of our brand and reputation. Failure to protect the reputation of our brands may adversely impact our credibility as a trusted source of content and may have a negative impact on our business. In addition, in certain jurisdictions we engage sales agents in connection with the sale of certain of our products and services. Poor representation of our products and services by agents, or entities acting without our permission, could have an adverse effect on our brands, reputation, and business. The international scope of our operations may expose us to increased risk, and our international operations and corporate and financing structure may expose us to potentially adverse tax consequences. We have international operations and, accordingly, our business is subject to risks resulting from differing legal and regulatory requirements, political, social and economic conditions and unforeseeable developments in a variety of jurisdictions. Our international operations are subject to the following risks, among others: political instability; international hostilities (including the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine and related sanctions, the ongoing war between Israel and Hamas, the renewed tensions between Serbia and Kosovo, and related negative economic impacts), military actions, terrorist or cyber-terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics, and infrastructure disruptions; Chinas domestic policy and increased preference for nationalized content; differing economic cycles and adverse economic conditions; unexpected changes in regulatory environments and government interference in the economy and the possibility that the U.S. could default on its debt obligations; high inflationary pressures and consistently high interest rates; differing labor regulations in locations where we have a significant number of employees; foreign exchange controls and restrictions on repatriation of funds; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; insufficient protection against product piracy and differing protections for IP rights; varying regulatory and legislative frameworks regarding the use and implementation of AI; varying attitudes towards censorship and the treatment of information service providers by foreign governments, particularly in emerging markets; various trade restrictions (including trade and economic sanctions and export controls prohibiting or restricting transactions involving certain persons and certain designated countries or territories) and anti-corruption laws (including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010); possible difficulties in enforcing a U.S. judgment against us or our directors and officers residing outside the United States, or asserting securities law claims outside of the United States; and protecting your interests as a shareholder due to the differing rights of shareholders under Jersey law, where we are incorporated. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so without incurring unexpected costs. If we are not able to manage the risks related to our international operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected. In addition, the international scope of our business operations subjects us to multiple overlapping tax regimes that can make it difficult to determine what our obligations are in particular situations, and relevant tax authorities may interpret rules differently over time. These tax regimes may relate to corporate income taxes, withholding taxes on remittances, payments by our partnerships or subsidiaries, withholding taxes on share-based compensation, and adverse tax consequences of a U.S. person exceeding a particular ownership threshold in our ordinary shares, among other issues. If any tax authority were to 19 Table of Contents dispute a position we have taken or may take in the future and successfully proceed against us, this could adversely affect our cash flows and financial position, and the amounts we could be required to pay may be significant. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations and our other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults; events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses; sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate outstanding indebtedness, which could result in increased interest under our credit facilities which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly; reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions; and if we receive a downgrade of our credit ratings, our cost of borrowing could increase, negatively affecting our ability to access the capital markets on advantageous terms, or at all. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our debt obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, for many reasons, including to fund acquisitions. Such additional indebtedness may be subject to higher borrowing costs as a result of rising interest rates. If we add additional debt or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could intensify. Our outstanding private placement warrants are accounted for as liabilities and are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value each period reported in earnings, which may cause volatility in our earnings and thus may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. As described in our financial statements included in this annual report, we account for our private placement warrants as liabilities at fair value on the balance sheet. The private placement warrants are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date and any change in fair value is recognized in the income statement in each period for which earnings are reported. We will continue to adjust the liability for changes in fair value until the earlier of exercise or expiration of the warrants. The volatility introduced by changes in fair value on earnings may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. We have incurred impairment charges for our goodwill and may incur further impairment charges for our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would negatively impact our operating results. In both 2023 and 2022, we recorded goodwill impairment charges that arose primarily due to worsening macroeconomic and market conditions. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that carrying value may not be recoverable. If we continue to experience adverse or worsening macroeconomic or market conditions or if we experience other indicators of potential impairment, we may need to record additional impairment charges. In the event we are required to record additional non-cash impairment charges to our goodwill, other intangible assets, or long-lived assets, such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are not able to remediate the material weakness, or if we identify additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to design 20 Table of Contents and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to provide accurate financial statements, meet our reporting obligations, or prevent or detect material misstatements. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, our management is required to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing, and possible remediation. Annually, we perform activities that include reviewing, documenting, and testing our internal control over financial reporting. As previously disclosed, we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the preparation and review of the footnote disclosures included in our consolidated financial statements, including controls related to the completeness and accuracy of the underlying information used in the preparation of the footnote disclosures. If left unremediated, this material weakness could result in additional misstatements of the footnote disclosures that would result in a material misstatement to the annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected, and we would not be able to conclude that we have an effective internal control environment. If we fail to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could result in significant expenses to remediate any internal control deficiencies and lead to a decline in our stock price. We have designed and implemented new control activities to address the material weakness, but the control activities have to operate for a sufficient period of time to allow management to test and conclude that the new controls are operating effectively. We may not be successful in remediating the material weakness or be able to identify and remediate additional control deficiencies, including material weaknesses, on a timely basis in the future. For further discussion of the material weakness, see Item 9A.