Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: Overview The Company reported net income of $49.4 million or $0.92 per diluted share for 201 4 , as compared to net income of $45.7 million or $0.84 per diluted share for 201 3 . Sales increased $7.2 million or 1.3% in 2014 as compared to 2013. The total negative impact of foreign currency translation on consolidated net sales was $3.2 million. The Company achieved improvement in profitability despite a challenging sales environment in certain markets and the negative impact of a strong U.S. dollar. The Company also utilized its balance sheet to increase value by continuing an open market share repurchase program. In addition, the Companys Board of Directors approved $83.0 million for 2015 capital spending that should increase carbon production capacity and reduce costs. Results of Operations 2014 Versus 2013 Net sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment increased $15.9 million or 3.3% from 2013. The increase was principally due to higher sales in the Industrial Process market of $10.3 million driven by volume increases of approximately 10% which were primarily in Asia for the reactivation of industrial spent carbons in China and growth in the biogas market in Europe. In addition, h igher demand and pricing in the Food market of $7.0 million for sweetener customers, largely the result of three new large orders in the Americas and Europe, and higher sales in the Potable Water market of $5.8 million mainly from significant orders for municipal drinking water treatment in Europe also contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting these increases was lower demand in the Specialty Carbon market of $6.1 million primarily related to metal recovery products in the Americas of $2.5 million as sales in 2013 did not repeat in 2014, and lower demand of respirator carbon products of $1.6 million due to a temporary slowdown in U.S. Government purchases. Also contributing to the decline was the $3.6 million negative impact of foreign currency translation. Net sales in the Equipment segment decreased $9.6 million or 17.5% from 2013. The decrease was due to lower sales of traditional ultraviolet light systems of $5.8 million, traditional carbon adsorption equipment of $3.9 million and ion exchange systems of $0.8 million as a result of several large contracts that were completed during the prior year which more than offset new contracts. Offsetting these declines were higher sales of ballast water treatment systems of $0.9 million. Foreign currency translation effects in the Equipment segment were not significant. Net sales in the Consumer segment increased $0.8 million or 7.9% from 2013. The increase was due to higher demand for activated carbon cloth as well as the positive impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $0.5 million for the Consumer segment. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percent of net sales, was 34.6% in 2014 compared to 33.0% in 2013, an increase of 1.6 percentage points. The increase was primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment and included the favorable impact of approximately $2.9 million in the Americas region from price increases that were instituted in March 2013 and lower coal costs of approximately $1.9 million primarily from two long-term coal contracts. The Company also benefited from a reduction in pension costs of approximately $1.3 million for its U.S. plans as a result of favorable investment performance and a higher discount rate . In addition, 2013 included adjustments that increased the estimated costs to complete for several projects in process in the Equipment segment that totaled approximately $0.5 million. Finally, the favorable impact from our cost improvement programs including increased carbon production volumes of 3.3% during 2014 contributed to margin improvement in all three regions. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased by $1.5 million or 5.3% in 2014 as compared to 2013. The increase for the year to date period is due primarily to depreciation related to the Companys Gila Bend, Arizona facility that was placed into service in the second quarter of 2013 and for other improvements to the Companys manufacturing facilities. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $3.9 million or 5.1% in 2014 as compared to 2013. The increase was principally due to costs related to an SAP re-implementation project which commenced in January 2014 aimed at improving functionality of the Companys enterprise resource planning (ERP) system of approximately $3.8 million. Also contributing to the year over year increase was a charge of $0.4 million in 2014 related to a multi-employer pension plan as compared to a benefit of $1.1 million in 2013. Partially offsetting the higher expense was lower pension costs as mentioned above of approximately $0.8 million, in spite of a $0.9 million pension settlement charge. On a segment basis, selling, general and administrative expenses for the Activated Carbon and Service segment increased approximately $5.9 million primarily as a result of the items discussed above. 21 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Equipment segment declined approximately $2.1 million largely due to employee related expenses, and the Consumer segment was comparable to 2013. Research and development expenses increased $0.4 million or 6.1% in 2014 as compared to 2013. The increase was primarily due to higher advanced product testing costs related to mercury removal from flue gas and slightly higher employee related costs. The Company recorded $0.3 million of restructuring income in 2014 which represents reductions in the estimated accrual and a pre-tax gain for the sale of a warehouse in Belgium. In 2013, the Company recorded $0.5 million of restructuring charges related to headcount reductions which were offset by a pre-tax gain of $0.6 million for the sale of its activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China. These restructuring charges are within the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Refer to additional discussion in Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Litigation and other contingencies of $0.3 million in 2013 relate primarily to environmental expenses at the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky production facility. Refer to additional discussion in Note 17 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Interest income was comparable in 2014 versus 2013. I nterest expense decreased $0.2 million versus the comparable 2013 period primarily due to an increase in capitalized interest and lower interest rates under the Companys borrowing arrangements. The average debt outstanding was slightly higher during 2014 as compared to 2013. Other expense net increased $0.5 million or 40.1% in 2014 as compared to 2013. The 2013 period included a $0.3 million decline in an earn-out liability related to a 2010 acquisition that did not repeat in 2014 and $0.3 million reduction in royalty income for a UV license agreement that ended in 2013. Partially offsetting these increases was income of $0.3 million related to a government incentive in China. The income tax provision for 2014 was $23.1 million as compared to $21.5 million in 2013. For 2014, tax expense increased approximately $1.6 million over 2013 related predominately due to an increase in pre-tax earnings of $5.3 million. In addition, the 2014 income tax provision includes a net $1.4 million benefit related to a completed Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examination and the effective settlement and release of uncertain tax positions. The 2013 income tax provision included a benefit of $1.5 million from the sale of the Companys activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China which occurred in March 2013. The effective tax rate for 2014 was 31.9% compared to 32.0 % for the similar 201 3 period. The 2014 effective rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate mainly due to the mix of income throughout foreign jurisdictions which reduced the rate 2.9% and the settlement of uncertain tax position which reduced the rate 1.9%. The decrease was partially offset by state income taxes. 201 3 Versus 201 2 Consolidated net sales decreased $14.3 million or 2.5% in 2013 as compared to 2012. The total negative impact of foreign currency translation on consolidated net sales was $11.6 million. Net sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment decreased $3.5 million or 0.7% from 2012. The decrease was primarily due to a $9.3 million decline in the Environmental Air market primarily as a result of lower pricing on a single contract for powder activated carbon for mercury removal from electric generating units in the Americas region which totaled $11.7 million. Also contributing to the decline was the $11.5 million negative impact of foreign currency translation. Partially offsetting these declines was the impact of the Companys 2013 price increases, primarily in the Americas region, of $6.6 million as well as higher volume for certain activated carbon products and services in the following markets: Industrial Process of 11%, Environmental Water of 9%, and Potable Water of 7%. The increase in volume for the Industrial Process market was primarily due to higher demand in the Americas and Europe. The increase in the Environmental Water market was related to increased demand as a result of a higher level of environmental remediation projects that were primarily in the U.S. The increase in the Potable Water market was principally as a result of compliance with disinfection byproduct regulations in the U.S. Net sales in the Equipment segment decreased $11.1 million or 16.8% from 2012. The decrease was primarily due to lower sales of ballast water treatment business of $15.5 million. The 2012 period included $12.6 million in sales for four large ballast water treatment system contracts that the Company was not able to equal in 2013 given the effects of delayed ratification of the International Maritime Organization ballast water treatment regulations and other U.S. Coast Guard and Environmental Protection Agency related issues. Also contributing to the decline was $2.9 million of lower sales of ion exchange systems due to lower demand. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase in sales of both traditional carbon adsorption and traditional ultraviolet disinfection systems of $5.2 million and $3.3 million, respectively. The increase in sales for traditional carbon adsorption systems was due to higher 22 Table of Contents demand from municipal drinking water customers for compliance with disinfection byproduct regulations. The increase in sales for traditional ultraviolet systems was a result of one large contract that was awarded in December of 2012 for the supply of the Companys Sentinel systems to the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power. Foreign currency translation effects in the Equipment segment were not significant. Net sales in the Consumer segment increased $0.3 million or 2.6% from 2012. The increase was primarily due to higher demand for activated carbon cloth. Foreign currency translation had a negative impact of $0.1 million for the Consumer segment. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percent of net sales, was 33.0% in 2013 compared to 30.2% in 2012, an increase of 2.8 percentage points. The increase was in the Activated Carbon and Service segment and included the benefits of several of the initiatives related to the Companys cost improvement program. The Company benefited by approximately $5.5 million from cost improvements as a result of the expansion of its Pearl River manufacturing facility. The results of the Companys ongoing product rationalization initiative, which reduced its stock keeping units (SKUs) by 45%, resulted in approximately $2.6 million of cost savings in 2013. The Company also benefited from a reduction in warehousing costs of approximately $1.0 million as a result of its world-wide effort to consolidate its storage needs. In addition to these initiatives, the impact of price increases, including $6.6 million in the Americas also contributed favorably to 2013 as did the $0.4 million settlement on an insurance claim related to Hurricane Isaac (Refer to Note 17 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report). The 2012 period included additional costs of $3.4 million related to the Companys Pearl River facility as a result of delays in a capital project, maintenance issues, and the impact of Hurricane Isaac. The 2012 period also included a $1.7 million write-off of obsolete inventory. Higher coal and coal-related costs also negatively impacted 2012 and were the result of manufacturing costs related to trials of new and different coal types. These trials were necessitated by the termination of a coal contract with a former supplier that occurred during the second quarter of 2012. Partially offsetting the favorability in the Activated Carbon and Service segment in 2013 was an $11.7 million negative impact from pricing related to the aforementioned single contract for mercury removal effective the end of 2012. Both the Equipment and Consumer segments were comparable to 2012. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased by $2.6 million or 9.9% in 2013 as compared to 2012. The increase was due primarily to increased depreciation related to the Companys new Gila Bend, Arizona facility that was placed into service in the second quarter of 2013 as well as for capital improvements at the Companys Pearl River virgin carbon manufacturing facility that were completed in January 2013. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $8.4 million or 9.8% in 2013 as compared to 2012. The decrease was principally due to a decline in employee related expenses of $6.1 million which includes a $2.8 million favorable impact related to a multi-employer pension plan (Refer to additional discussion in Note 10 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report). Also contributing to the decline were decreased U.S. healthcare costs of $1.3 million resulting from favorable claims experience in 2013 and other medical benefit program modifications. Employee travel costs also declined by $1.2 million as a result of the Companys cost improvement initiatives. On a segment basis, selling, general and administrative expenses for the Activated Carbon and Service segment declined approximately $8.1 million primarily as a result of the items discussed above. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Equipment and Consumer segments did not materially fluctuate as compared to 2012. Research and development expenses decreased $2.0 million or 24.8% in 2013 as compared to 2012. The decrease was due to lower advanced product testing costs related to both mercury removal from flue gas and the use of activated carbon in ultra capacitors. The Company recorded $0.5 million of restructuring charges in 2013 related to headcount reductions in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. These charges were offset by a pre-tax gain of $0.6 million for the sale of the Companys activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China. The Company recorded $10.2 million of restructuring charges in 2012 which primarily consist of $5.8 million of termination benefits related to a reduction in headcount and a $3.6 million impairment charge for the permanent closure of the Companys Datong, China activated carbon production facility (Refer to additional discussion in Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report). These restructuring charges are within the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Litigation and other contingencies were comparable in 2013 versus 2012. Other expense net decreased $1.1 million or 45.0% in 2013 as compared to 2012. The decrease is primarily as a result of $0.5 million decline in an earn-out liability related to a 2010 acquisition. The provision for income taxes for 2013 was $21.5 million as compared to $14.1 million in 2012. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2013 was 32.0% compared to 37.7% for the year ended December 31, 2012. The 2013 tax rate decreased approximately 5% from the 2012 effective tax rate primarily due to net tax benefits related to the 2013 sale of the Companys Datong, 23 Table of Contents China facility. The 2013 tax rate was reduced 1.2% from the 2012 tax rate due to a state tax credit. Excluding the impact of the aforementioned sale, the 2013 tax rate was negatively impacted by 0.5% related to the mix of income before income tax provision throughout foreign jurisdictions as compared to 2012. Working Capital and Liquidity The Company has had sufficient financial resources to meet its operating requirements and to fund capital spending, share repurchases and pension plans. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $84.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, as compared to $66.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The $17.5 million increase was due to lower inventory levels that improved cash flows in 2014 versus 2013 by $13.2 million, higher earnings in 2014 versus 2013 of $3.9 million, as well as lower restructuring payments of $3.1 million. The Company maintains a U.S. Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) which provides for a senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Revolver) in an amount up to $225 million which expires on November 6, 2019. Availability under the Revolver is conditioned upon various customary conditions. The Credit Agreement also provides for senior unsecured delayed draw term loans (Delayed Draw Term Loans) in an aggregate amount up to $75 million which expires on November 6, 2020. Beginning January 1, 2016, quarterly repayments are required equal to 2.5% of the outstanding balance of the Delayed Draw Term Loans, with the remaining balance due on the November 6, 2020 expiration date. Total outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement increased $40.5 million in 2014. Total availability under the Credit Agreement was $231.1 million as of December 31, 2014. Certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries unconditionally guarantee all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type. The Company must comply with certain financial covenants including minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio as defined within the Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of December 31, 2014. Calgon Carbon Japan (CCJ) maintains a Term Loan Agreement which provides for borrowings up to 1.0 billion Japanese Yen and matures on May 10, 2017. In addition, CCJ maintains a Working Capital Loan Agreement which provides for borrowings up to 1.5 billion Japanese Yen and matures on April 2, 2015. The Company is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor of CCJs obligations and the Company permitted CCJ to grant a security interest and continuing lien in certain of its assets, including inventory and accounts receivable, to secure its obligations under both loan agreements. The Company maintains an Uncommitted Revolving Loan Facility Letter (Facility Letter) in China which provides for an uncommitted line of credit totaling 5 million Renminbi or $0.8 million which matures on July 19, 2015. The Company is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor under the Facility Letter. Refer to Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on the Companys borrowing arrangements. Share Repurchases In November 2012, the Companys Board of Directors authorized an accelerated share repurchase of Company common stock under a share repurchase program (Program). On November 20, 2012, the Company paid a purchase price of $50 million and initially received 3,276,002 shares upon inception of the Program, for an average purchase price of $15.26 per share. The actual number of shares repurchased was 340,334 shares less than the number of shares previously delivered, and as a result, the Company sold back that many shares to the counterparty in the form of a private placement of unregistered securities during 2013. In December 2013, the Companys Board of Directors approved an increase in the overall value of shares authorized for repurchase under its Program to $150 million, excluding the November 2012 accelerated share repurchase. Subsequently, the Company initiated an open market share repurchase program whereby 146,800 shares were repurchased in 2013 at an average price per share of $20.37. During 2014, the Company repurchased an additional 1,930,841shares at an average price of $20.57 per share. All of the aforementioned repurchases were funded from operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings and the shares are initially held as treasury stock. During the period January 1, 2015 through January 6, 2015, the Company repurchased an additional 36,000 shares at a total cost of $0.8 million. Subsequent to these repurchases, the Companys remaining authorization to repurchase its common stock is approximately $106.5 million. 24 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. The following table represents the significant contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments of the Company as of December 31, 201 4 . Payments due by period (Dollars in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Short-term debt $ 833 $ 833 $ $ $ Long-term debt 70,448 12,748 30,700 27,000 Interest (1) 4,063 877 1,612 1,298 276 Operating leases 47,661 6,854 10,281 6,100 24,426 Unconditional purchase obligations(2) 97,051 33,719 40,317 20,851 2,164 Total contractual cash obligations $ 220,056 $ 42,283 $ 64,958 $ 58,949 $ 53,866 (1) As of December 31, 2014, the weighted average effective interest rate was approximately 1.25% on the Companys total borrowings of $71.3 million. The Companys debt carries variable interest rates. The interest amounts have been estimated based on the applicable interest rate per annum as of December 31, 2014, and the outstanding debt balances as of December 31, 2014, adjusted for the future required repayments shown above. (2) Primarily for the purchase of raw materials, transportation, and information systems services. The long-term tax payable of $1.3 million, pertaining to the tax liability related to the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, has been excluded from the above table due to the fact that the Company is unable to determine the period in which the liability will be resolved. The Company does not have any special-purpose entities. The Company maintains qualified defined benefit pension plans (the Qualified Plans), which cover certain non-union and union employees in the United States and Europe. The fair value of the Companys Qualified Plan assets has stayed constant at $129.4 million as of December 31, 2014 and 201 3 . During 2014, the Company made lump sum payments totaling $4.4 million to certain eligible terminated vested participants who elected a lump sum payment of their respective pension benefits. The Pension Protection Act, passed into law in August 2006, prescribes a new methodology for determining the minimum amount that must be contributed to defined benefit pension plans which began in 2008. During the year ended December 31, 201 4 , the Company funded its Qualified Plans with $3.5 million in contributions. The Company expects that it will be required, in accordance with its funding policy, to fund the Qualified Plans with approximately $1.9 million in contributions for the year ending December 31, 2015. The Company may make additional contributions to its Qualified Plans in 2015 beyond the required funding. Additional voluntary contributions would be dependent upon, among other things, the Companys ongoing operating results and liquidity. The Company did not declare or pay any dividends in 201 4 . Dividend declaration and payout are at the discretion of the Board of Directors. On February 18, 2015, the Companys Board of Directors reinstated its common stock dividend program declaring a quarterly dividend payable in the amount of $0.05 per share on March 15, 2015 to its stockholders of record at the close of business on March 5, 2015. Future dividends will depend on the Companys earnings, cash flows, capital investment plans to pursue long-term growth opportunities, and share repurchases, if any. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Companys off-balance sheet arrangements include the operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations disclosed above as well as letters of credit and guarantees as discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Capital Expenditures and Investments Capital expenditures were $63.5 million, $30.3 million, and $60.7 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Expenditures for 2014 included $48.9 million for improvements to manufacturing facilities including approximately $38.6 million for the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky and Pearlington, Mississippi facilities, along with expenditures for a SAP re-implementation project of approximately $6.2 million. Expenditures for 201 3 included $26.0 million for improvements to manufacturing facilities including approximately $8.6 million related to the final construction of the Gila Bend, Arizona facility. Expenditures for 201 2 included $50.5 million for improvements to manufacturing facilities including approximately $13.4 million related to the construction of the Gila 25 Table of Contents Bend, Arizona facility and $13.4 million related to the capacity expansion at the Pearlington, Mississippi facility. Capital expenditures for 201 5 are currently projected to be approximately $80.0 million to $85.0 million. The aforementioned expenditures are expected to be funded by operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings. Proceeds for sales of property, plant and equipment were not significant in 2014, 201 3 or 2012 . Proceeds from the sale of business were $0.6 million in 2013 related to the sale of the Companys activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China. (Refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report ). The Company received $1.8 million, $1.7 million and $0.9 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, of proceeds related to government grants in the U.S., Asia and Europe. (Refer to Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report ). Cash and cash equivalents include $41.7 million and $27.6 million held by the Companys foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Generally, cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries are not readily available for use in the United States without adverse tax consequences. The Companys principal sources of liquidity are its cash flows from its operating activities or borrowings directly from its lines of credit. The Company does not believe the level of its non-U.S. cash position will have an adverse effect on working capital needs, planned growth, repayment of maturing debt, or benefit plan funding. The Company currently expects that cash from operating activities plus cash balances and available external financing will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months. The cash needs of each of the Companys reporting segments are principally covered by the segments operating cash flow on a standalone basis. Any additional needs will be funded by cash on hand or borrowings under the Companys Credit Agreement, Delayed Draw Term Loan, Japanese Working Capital Loan, or other credit facilities. Specifically, the Equipment and Consumer segments historically have not required extensive capital expenditures; therefore, the Company believes that operating cash flows, cash on hand and borrowings will adequately support each of the segments cash needs. Other The Company is involved in various legal proceedings, lawsuits and claims, including employment, product warranty and environmental matters of a nature considered normal to its business. It is the Companys policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the loss amount is reasonably estimable. Refer to Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details. Critical Accounting Policies Management of the Company has evaluated the accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements and related footnotes and believes the policies to be reasonable and appropriate. The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make judgments, estimates, and assumptions regarding uncertainties that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Management uses historical experience and all available information to make these judgments and estimates, and actual results will inevitably differ from those estimates and assumptions that are used to prepare the Companys financial statements at any given time. Despite these inherent limitations, management believes that Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) and the financial statements and related footnotes provide a meaningful and fair perspective of the Company. The following are the Companys critical accounting policies impacted by managements judgments, assumptions, and estimates. Management believes that the application of these policies on a consistent basis enables the Company to provide the users of the financial statements with useful and reliable information about the Companys operating results and financial condition. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue and related costs when goods are shipped or services are rendered to customers provided that ownership and risk of loss have passed to the customer, the price to the customer is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Revenue for major equipment projects is recognized under the percentage of completion method. The Companys major equipment projects generally have a long project life cycle from bid solicitation to project completion. The nature of the contracts are generally fixed price with milestone billings. The Company recognizes revenue for these projects based on the fixed sales prices 26 Table of Contents multiplied by the percentage of completion. In applying the percentage of completion method, a projects percent complete as of any balance sheet date is computed as the ratio of total costs incurred to date divided by the total estimated costs at completion. As changes in the estimates of total costs at completion and/or estimated total losses on projects are identified, appropriate earnings adjustments are recorded during the period that the change or loss is identified. The Company has a history of making reasonably dependable estimates of costs at completion on contracts that follow the percentage of completion method; however, due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual project costs at completion could vary from their estimates. The principal components of costs include material, direct labor, subcontracts, and allocated indirect costs. Indirect costs primarily consist of administrative labor and associated operating expenses, which are allocated to the respective projects on actual hours charged to the project utilizing a standard hourly rate. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Identifiable intangible assets acquired in business combinations are recorded based on their fair values at the date of acquisition. In accordance with guidance within ASC 350 Intangibles Goodwill and Other, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but must be evaluated for impairment. None of the Companys identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill have indefinite lives. The Company has elected to perform the annual impairment test of its goodwill, as required, on December 31 of each year by initially comparing the fair value of each of the Companys reporting units to their related carrying values. The Company will also perform an impairment test between annual tests whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit may exceed its fair value. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company performs an additional step to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by first allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of the unit and then computing the excess of the units fair value over the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, such excess represents the amount of goodwill impairment, and the Company recognizes such impairment accordingly. Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flow and other valuation methodologies, such as the guideline public company method, that are based on projections of the amounts and timing of future revenues and cash flows, assumed discount rates and other assumptions as deemed appropriate. The Company also considers such factors as historical performance, anticipated market conditions, operating expense trends and capital expenditure requirements. Each reporting unit periodically prepares discrete operating forecasts and uses these forecasts as the basis for assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analysis and guideline public company method. The Company has consistently used a discount rate commensurate with its cost of capital which ranges from 9.5% to 15.5%, adjusted for inherent business risks within its respective reporting units and has consistently used a terminal growth factor of 3.0%. The Company also reconciles the estimated aggregate fair value of its reporting units as derived from the discounted cash flow analysis and guideline public company method to the Companys overall market capitalization. The Company has six reporting units for purposes of goodwill evaluation. These reporting units consist of (1) the Activated Carbon and Service segment which is segregated into two regional reporting units, the Americas/Asia and Europe, (2) the Equipment segment which is segregated by technology (a) traditional carbon adsorption, (b) ultraviolet light, and (c) ion exchange, and (3) the Consumer segment which includes the charcoal cloth reporting unit. The Company continually monitors its reporting units for impairment indicators and updates assumptions used in the most recent calculation of the fair value of a reporting unit as appropriate. The fair value of the Companys reporting units substantially exceeds the carrying value of its goodwill as of December 31, 2014. The Companys identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill have finite lives. Certain of these intangible assets, such as customer relationships, are amortized using an accelerated methodology while others, such as patents, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. In addition, intangible assets with finite lives are evaluated for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable, as prescribed by guidance within ASC 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment. Pensions The Company maintains Qualified Plans which cover certain union and non-union employees in the United States and Europe. As of December 31, 2014, all of the Qualified Plans do not allow for new employees to join the plans. In addition, two of the U.S. plans and one of the European plans do not allow for existing participants to continue to earn benefits under the plans. During 2014, the Company offered an opportunity to certain eligible terminated vested participants in two of the U.S. plans to elect a lump sum payment of their respective pension benefits which were paid in the fourth quarter of 2014. As a result, the Company incurred a settlement charge of $1.0 million in 2014 related to such elections and paid $4.4 million from plan assets. Pension expense, which totaled $1.2 million in 2014 (including a $1.0 million settlement charge and a $0.4 million charge related to a multi-employer pension plan) and $ 2.5 million in 2013 (including a $1.1 million reduction in a multi-employer pension plan and a 27 Table of Contents $0.3 million settlement charge) , is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including expected long-term rates of return on the Companys Qualified Plans assets, which range from 5.23% to 7.75%. For 2015, the expected rate of return on assets will range from 5.54% to 7.50%. In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumption, the Company evaluated input from its investment advisors, including their review of asset class return expectations as well as long-term inflation assumptions. The Company also considered historical returns on asset classes and the investment mix. The expected long-term return on the U.S. Qualified Plans assets is based on a targeted asset allocation assumption of approximately 52% with equity securities, 43% with fixed-income securities, and 5% with other investments. The European Qualified Plans assets are based on a targeted asset allocation assumption of approximately 34% with equity securities, 54% with fixed-income securities, and 12% with other investments. The Company regularly reviews its asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. The Company will continue to evaluate its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust as necessary. The discount rate that the Company utilizes for its Qualified Plans to determine pension obligations is based on a review of long-term bonds that receive one of the two highest ratings given by a recognized rating agency. The discount rate determined on this basis has decreased from a range of 3 .92% to 4.88 % as of December 31, 201 3 to a range of 3.00 % to 4.01 % as of December 31, 201 4 which will result in an increase in the expected 2015 benefit cost of approximately $1.0 million. During 2014, the Society of Actuaries released a new mortality table RP-2014, and a new projection scale MP-2014. As a result of these new tables, the Company changed its mortality assumptions for its U.S. plans in 2014. The Company has adopted the new RP-2014 mortality table and a modified version of the new MP-2014 projection scale for the U.S. Qualified Plans which will result in an increase in the expected 2015 benefit cost of approximately $0.9 million. The Company estimates that it will record pension expense for the Qualified Plans that will approximate $1.5 million in 2015. Future actual pension expense will depend on future investment performance, funding levels, changes in discount rates and various other factors related to the populations participating in its Qualified Plans. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical one percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical Rate Increase (Decrease) U.S. Plans European Plans (Dollars in thousands) (1%) 1% (1%) 1% Discount rate Pension liabilities as of December 31, 201 4 $ 16,874 $ (13,577 ) $ 8,279 $ (6,484 ) Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 2014 $ 761 $ (303 ) $ 366 $ (160 ) Indexation(1) Pension liabilities as of December 31, 201 4 $ $ $ (2,055 ) $ 2,254 Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 201 4 $ $ $ (205 ) $ 300 Expected return on plan assets Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 201 4 $ 974 $ (974 ) $ 298 $ (298 ) Compensation Pension liabilities as of December 31, 201 4 $ (1,177 ) $ 1,177 $ (635 ) $ 945 Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 201 4 $ (180 ) $ 180 $ (156 ) $ 221 (1) Pension indexation related to the Companys German Qualified Plan is regulated by German pension law. The law dictates that a pension that is already in payment must be adjusted for inflation every 3 years which is measured by the published German price index for the same time interval. Pension indexation related to the Companys UK Chemviron Plan is based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) in the UK. For this plan, the index is capped at 5% per annum for pensions accrued prior to January 1, 2008 and is capped at 2.5% per annum for pensions accrued after December 31, 2007. For purposes of the Companys UK Sutcliffe Speakman plan, the indexation is fixed at 3% per annum for pensions accrued prior to April 6, 1997. For those pensions accrued from April 6, 1997 to July 31, 2005, the index is subject to a minimum of 3% per annum and a maximum of 5% per annum. For those pensions accrued after July 31, 2005, the index is capped at 2.5% per annum. Income Taxes During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining the Companys annual effective tax rate and in evaluating tax positions. The Company utilizes guidance within ASC 740 Income Taxes regarding the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. This guidance contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. 28 Table of Contents Although the Company believes it has adequately reserved for its uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. The Company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the refinement of an estimate, or a lapse of a tax statute. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related penalties and net interest. The Company is subject to varying statutory tax rates in the countries where it conducts business. Fluctuations in the mix of the Companys income between countries will result in changes to the Companys overall effective tax rate. The Company recognizes benefits associated with foreign and domestic net operating loss and credit carryforwards when the Company believes that it is more likely than not that its future taxable income in the relevant tax jurisdictions will be sufficient to enable the realization of the tax benefits. As of December 31, 201 4 , the Company had recorded total deferred tax assets of $37.2 million, of which $5.7 million represents tax benefits resulting from $0.2 million of unused foreign tax credits, $3.2 million of net operating losses, $1.5 million of state tax credits, and a capital loss carryover of $0.8 million. Approximately $0.3 million of the $3.2 million of operating loss carryovers will expire in 2018. State operating loss carryforwards of $0.7 million, net, expire from 2015 to 2034 of which approximately 92% will not expire before 2020. The Company periodically reviews the need for a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets and recognizes these deferred tax assets to the extent that realization is more likely than not. Based upon a review of earnings history and trends, forecasted earnings and the relevant expiration of carryforwards, the Company believes that the valuation allowances provided are appropriate. As of December 31, 2014, the Company has recorded a valuation allowance of approximately $2.6 million related to foreign net operating losses and domestic capital loss carryovers, and a state tax credit. Approximately 92% of the Companys deferred tax assets, or $34.1 million, represent temporary differences associated with pensions, accruals, and inventories. Approximately 85% of the Companys deferred tax liabilities of $46.6 million as of December 31, 201 4 relate to property, plant and equipment. These temporary differences will reverse in the future due to the natural realization of temporary differences between annual book and tax reporting. The Company believes that the deferred tax liabilities generally will impact taxable income of the same character (ordinary income), timing, and jurisdiction as the deferred tax assets. Litigation The Company is involved in various asserted and unasserted legal claims. An estimate is made to accrue for a loss contingency relating to any of these legal claims if it is probable that a liability was incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because of the subjective nature inherent in assessing the outcome of legal claims and because the potential that an adverse outcome in a legal claim could have a material impact on the Companys legal position or results of operations, such estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates. Legal fees associated with defending these various lawsuits and claims are expensed when incurred. The Company will continue to evaluate all legal matters as additional information becomes available. Reference is made to Note 17 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a discussion of litigation and contingencies. Long-Lived Assets The Company evaluates long-lived assets under the provisions of ASC 360 Property, Plant, and Equipment, which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment of long-lived assets, and for disposal of long-lived assets. For assets to be held and used, the Company groups a long-lived asset or assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. An impairment loss for an asset group reduces only the carrying amounts of a long-lived asset or assets of the group being evaluated. The loss is allocated to the long-lived assets of the group on a pro-rata basis using the relative carrying amounts of those assets, except that the loss allocated to an individual long-lived asset of the group does not reduce the carrying amount of that asset below its fair value whenever that fair value is determinable without undue cost and effort. Estimates of future cash flows used to test the recoverability of a long-lived asset group include only the future cash flows that are directly associated with and that are expected to arise as a direct result of the use and eventual disposition of the asset group. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for details on recently issued accounting guidance. 29 Table of Contents Outlook Activated Carbon and Service The Company continues to estimate that for the period 2012 through 2017, the world-wide activated carbon market will increase at a compound annual growth rate of 10.8%. The Companys activated carbon and service sales volume for 2014 increased 2.5% over 2013. However, the impacts of environmental regulations are expected to lead to significant volume increases beginning in 2015, as discussed below. To meet the expected increase in activated carbon demand, the Company recently completed the expansion of its Pearl River facility by 20% - adding approximately 8 million pounds of granular activated carbon production per year. In addition, a similar project to expand one of the Companys three virgin production lines at its Big Sandy facility has commenced in the third quarter of 2014. Other sources of incremental capacity include increased utilization of the Companys activated carbon reactivation capacity in all three of its regions (Americas, Europe and Asia); operational improvements at the Companys virgin carbon manufacturing facilities due to new capital investments; a third-party plant efficiency study completed in the first half of 2014; an ongoing product rationalization project that has provided a reduction in SKUs of 45%; and, the sale of outsourced carbons. Finally, the Company continues to evaluate other opportunities for virgin activated carbon expansion including a significant expansion of one of the Companys existing facilities. Impediments to near-term growth could include an economic slowdown in any or all of the regions served and, in the future, could also include impacts from delays in environmental regulations further discussed below. The Company believes that fair pricing for activated carbon in the United States of America is being achieved via the application of a tariff imposed on Chinese steam activated carbon. Under the anti-dumping rules, importers of steam activated carbon from China are potentially required to pay anti-dumping duties. The United States Department of Commerce (Commerce Department) conducts reviews in order to determine whether changes (increases or decreases) should be made to the anti-dumping tariff rate applicable to any foreign exporter. These retrospective reviews occur annually while the anti-dumping duty order (the order) is in effect (the current order is scheduled to expire in March 2017). The Companys most recent price increase was announced in February 2013. Because of existing contracts, outstanding bids and other factors, it typically takes approximately 12 months for the full effect of a price increase to be realized. Raw material costs for production in 2015 are expected to decline compared to 2014. The most significant raw material cost is coal. The quantity of coal consumed varies based on the overall production levels achieved as well as the mix of products manufactured during the year. The Company expects its total cost of coal to decrease in 2015 primarily as a result of lower pricing achieved from two five-year coal contracts signed in December 2013. These contracts represent approximately 71% of the Companys current annual coal requirements. As of December 31, 2014, the Company has approximately 86% of its 2015 anticipated coal requirements under contract or in inventory. The Company continues to make research and development expenditures primarily related to its advanced FLUEPAC products. These products were introduced to significantly reduce the amount of powdered activated carbon (PAC) required for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas when compared to competing products. PAC is recognized today by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as the leading abatement technology for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas. The current U.S. driver of sales to coal-fired power plants is state regulations. However, on December 21, 2011, the U.S. EPA issued the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) requiring mercury and other substances to be removed from the flue gas of coal-fired power plants. The final MATS regulation was published in the Federal Register on February 16, 2012 and became effective on April 16, 2012. Compliance with MATS will generally be required three years from the effective date (April 2015). Exceptions for newly installed equipment and/or reliability critical paths could potentially delay implementation for applicable power plants up to an additional two years. As of December 31, 2014, the Company believes that approximately 20% of the units have been granted a one-year extension by at least 20 different states. On April 15, 2014, the United States of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C Circuit) denied petitions challenging the final MATS regulation. The Company viewed this decision as a major step towards the development of the mercury removal market in the U.S. However, the U.S. Supreme Court has decided to hear a lawsuit challenging the D.C. Circuits opinion upholding the MATS regulation. The Company cannot predict the ruling of the U.S. Supreme Court which is expected to be rendered in the second quarter of 2015. In addition to MATS, the EPA has promulgated mercury removal regulations related to industrial boilers and cement manufacturers. Compliance dates for cement manufacturers and industrial boilers are currently September 9, 2015 and January 31, 2016, respectively. There are also mercury removal regulations for the flue gas of coal-fired power plants in effect for certain Canadian provinces. The Company believes that mercury removal could become the largest U.S. market for activated carbon and has made great strides in establishing itself as a market leader. Based on standard carbon products, the Company estimates that the current annual demand for mercury removal in North America is 120 million to 150 million pounds and may grow to as much as 350 million to 550 30 Table of Contents million pounds by 2016. The Companys advanced products for mercury removal which have carbon usage rates of 50% to 70% less than alternative products, are important to its ongoing success in this market. Market acceptance of the Companys advanced FLUEPAC products is growing. Bidding activity with electric utilities has been active and is resulting in the receipt of significant, new orders for the Companys FLUEPAC products. The Company currently believes approximately one-third of this market is represented by the 19 states and certain Canadian provinces that require mercury removal. The Company estimates that those utilities planning to comply with the April 2015 MATS regulation will comprise at least another one-third of the eventual mercury removal market (subject to the pending Supreme Court ruling noted above) with the remaining electric utilities complying in April 2016. In 2014, the Companys sales into this market totaled approximately $28.7 million which is estimated to be approximately a 30% share. The Companys expectation is that its ongoing share of this market will be equal to, or greater than, its current share. Compliance with other proposed emissions regulations such as the EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and Carbon Pollution Standards (CPS) could significantly impact the amount of carbon utilized by electric utilities for compliance with MATS. In September 2013, the EPA released a Carbon Pollution Standards proposal for new electric generating units. The standards for new units are likely to have little impact on activated carbon usage in the future; however, the EPA proposed CPS for existing electric generating units released in June of 2014. The Company is evaluating the proposed rule, but believes that the CPS for existing units could have a negative impact on future activated carbon demand for electric generators, should generators opt to retire or repower their coal-fired electric generation units. In January of 2015, the EPA announced a delay in the release of the final new and existing source CPS until the middle of 2015. The Company believes the majority of U.S. electric utilities are awaiting further resolution of MATS, the final Carbon Pollution Standards for existing electric generating units, and a final determination as it relates to CSAPR before implementing an integrated treatment approach to more broadly address how to invest in pollution control equipment across their power plant fleet. In addition, long-term lower natural gas costs will likely also impact this market as electric generation facilities could shift production from coal to natural gas. It should also be noted that wide-spread adoption of the Companys advanced mercury removal products could also reduce the pounds of activated carbon needed for mercury removal. Adverse market conditions coupled with a strong adoption of the Companys advanced mercury removal carbons, could significantly reduce the eventual market volume opportunity to a level below the low end of aforementioned forecasted demand of 350 million to 550 million pounds of standard activated carbon. However, in that case, the Company could expect to increase its share of this market. In addition to mercury regulations in North America, China has announced plans for mercury removal from its coal-fired power plants. The plans, as announced, stipulate levels of mercury removal that would not likely result in large activated carbon sales. However, trials will purportedly be conducted to establish removal requirements. The need for municipal drinking water utilities to comply with the EPAs Stage 2 Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproducts Rule (the DBP Rule) is another growth driver for the Company. Disinfection Byproducts (DBPs) are compounds that form when natural occurring organic materials in drinking water sources react with the chemicals used to disinfect the water. Granular activated carbon (GAC) is recognized by the EPA as a best available control technology (BACT) for the reduction of DBPs. The EPA promulgated the DBP Rule in 2006, and requires water utilities to be in compliance with the rule in a phased manner between 2012 and 2015. Utilities can request delays up to 24 months if necessary to secure capital funding to install compliance technology. The Company estimates that through the end of 2014, over 65 million pounds of GAC have been installed by municipal water utilities across the United States for compliance with this regulation, a figure that is expected to grow to over 70 million by the end of 2015. This carbon also represents a significant opportunity for repeat sales via the Companys custom reactivation service business. Many of the utilities that have installed GAC for DBP compliance have converted to reactivated carbon and a growing number have entered into multi-year contracts with the Company for ongoing reactivation services. The Companys custom reactivation facilities in Arizona, California, New York, and Ohio have all received certification from the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) International. This certification verifies that potable custom reactivated carbon is safe for reuse in municipal drinking water treatment applications. In Europe, the Company was awarded a multi-year contract by a large water provider in the United Kingdom (UK). The Company will supply virgin carbon and reactivation services for up to a ten year period and plans to restart and upgrade its Tipton plant in the UK for that purpose. The planned upgrades are estimated to require $9.5 million of capital expenditures and will be completed in stages. This plant, having a current estimated annual capacity of approximately 11 million pounds, has begun undergoing equipment modifications and a significant capacity expansion. The plant should return to operation in the spring of 2015 with the additional capacity and planned upgrades completed in late 2015. China also announced that it will commit billions of dollars to water and wastewater improvements. 31 Table of Contents Equipment The Companys equipment business is somewhat cyclical in nature and depends on both regulations and the general health of the overall economy. The Company believes that U.S. demand for its ultraviolet light (UV) systems will continue, as smaller municipalities must meet implementation deadlines through 2015 for EPA regulations to treat for Cryptosporidium in drinking water. UV remains the technology of choice for controlling Cryptosporidium and Giardia under the U.S. EPA LT2 regulations. The Company also believes that demand for its ballast water treatment systems will grow. The U.S. Coast Guard issued its ballast water treatment rule on March 23, 2012 (Coast Guard Rule). The Coast Guard Rule addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water and ultimately requires U.S. Type Approval for treatment systems used in U.S. waters. Ships wishing to release ballast water into U.S. waters must operate an acceptable treatment system on all ships built after December 1, 2013; on medium ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2014; and, on small and large ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2016. Ship operators can seek an extension of the fore mentioned compliance dates from the Coast Guard by citing the lack of availability of U.S. Type Approved ballast water treatment systems. As of December 22, 2014, 331 such extensions have been granted to operators that otherwise would have been required to purchase ballast water treatment equipment under the Rule. The granting of these extensions despite the existence of acceptable but not yet U.S. Type Approved systems (like the Hyde GUARDIAN) has had a dampening effect on the market. The Coast Guard Rules discharge limits match the numerical limits proposed by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) but the Coast Guard is more prescriptive as to testing methodology than is the IMO. The only test method currently referenced in the Coast Guard Rule cannot measure the effectiveness of UV based systems like the Companys Hyde GUARDIAN and the other best selling systems. The Coast Guard in conjunction with the EPA is considering alternate test methods used by other nations to approve UV based ballast water treatment systems. Hyde Marine and other ballast water treatment system manufacturers whose technology includes the use of ultraviolet light, routinely used in the disinfection of drinking water, are working with the Coast Guard and the EPA in an effort to clarify the criteria in the Coast Guard Rule. There are two Independent Laboratories (IL) approved by the Coast Guard to work with manufacturers in the Type Approval process: NSF International (NSF), located in Ann Arbor, Michigan And Det Norske Veritas (DNV) AS, located in Hovik, Norway. The ILs have begun working with manufacturers on testing for US Type Approval a process that is expected to take from one to three years. In the interim, ships may discharge ballast water in U.S. ports for a period of five years if they operate a ballast water treatment system that has been designated as an Alternate Management System (AMS) by the Coast Guard. To qualify for this status, the equipment supplier must possess an international Type Approval, and must demonstrate to the Coast Guard that the equipment performs at least as well as ballast water exchange. The Company was granted AMS status for its Hyde GUARDIAN ballast water treatment system effective April 15, 2013. In 2004, the IMO adopted the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (BWMC) which, like the Coast Guard Rule, addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water. The regulations requiring ballast water treatment will become effective one year after 30 countries representing 35% of the worlds shipping tonnage ratify the BWMC. The BWMC has now been signed by 44 countries representing 32.86% of the worlds current shipping tonnage. The BWMC is expected to be phased in over a ten-year period and, coupled with the Coast Guard Rule, will require an estimated 64,000 vessels to install ballast water treatment systems. The Company believes that the total ballast water treatment market will approximate $28 billion after ratification of the BWMC. The Hyde GUARDIAN system, which employs filtration and ultraviolet light technology to filter and disinfect ballast water, offers cost, safety, and technological advantages. Hyde GUARDIAN has received Type Approval from Lloyds Register on behalf of the U.K. Maritime and Coast Guard Agency which confirms compliance with the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention. Hyde GUARDIAN has also received Class Society Type Approval from Lloyds Register (LR), American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), and Russian Maritime Registry of Shipping (RS). The strategic acquisition of Hyde Marine provided the Company immediate entry into a global, regulation driven market with major long-term growth potential. To date, most of the Hyde GUARDIAN systems sold have been for new ship builds but long term, most of Hydes sales will be for systems retrofitted into existing ships. During 2012, 2013 and 2014, the number of new ship builds was significantly lower than in prior years and the retrofit market for ballast water equipment has been slow to ramp up owing to the delay in ratification of the IMO BWMC and the fore mentioned Coast Guard extensions. This has suppressed the number of Hyde GUARDIAN orders received. During 2014, the Company sold 113 ballast water treatment systems. During 2013, 2012, and 2011, the Company sold 64, 68 and 82 ballast water treatment systems, respectively. Subsequent to the January 2010 acquisition of Hyde Marine, the Company has sold over 400 systems valued at approximately $82 million. Backlog for the Equipment segment as of December 31, 2014 was $19.8 million while backlog as of December 31, 2013 was $19.4 million. 32 Table of Contents Consumer Sales of activated carbon cloth increased $0.8 million or 7.9% in 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. In spite of the year over year growth, the Company believes this business will grow modestly due to increased demand in its primary markets - medical and defense.