Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: Overview The Company reported net income of $43.5 million or $0.82 per diluted share for 201 5, as compared to net income of $49.4 million or $0.92 per diluted share for 2014. Sales decreased $20.1 million or 3.6% in 2015 as compared to 2014. The total negative impact of foreign currency translation due to a stronger U.S. dollar on consolidated net sales was $22.8 million. The Companys results were impacted by both a slowing global economy and the negative impact of a strong U.S. dollar. The Company utilized its balance sheet to increase value by continuing an open market share repurchase program and reinstating its common stock dividend program. Results of Operations 2015 Versus 2014 Net sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment decreased $11.7 million or 2.3% from 2014. Included in this change was the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $21.9 million. Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales (Dollars in millions) As Reported Foreign Currency Impact Net of Foreign Currency Impact Environmental Air market $ 27.0 $ 2.6 $ 29.6 Environmental Water market (4.4 ) 4.3 (0.1 ) Food market (10.8 ) 4.0 (6.8 ) Industrial market (6.1 ) 3.8 (2.3 ) Potable Water market (14.9 ) 5.7 (9.2 ) Specialty Carbon market (4.4 ) 1.2 (3.2 ) Other 1.9 0.3 2.2 Total Activated Carbon and Service $ (11.7 ) $ 21.9 $ 10.2 The decrease in net sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment is principally due to the negative impact of foreign currency translation. Absent the negative impact of foreign currency, sales for the Activated Carbon and Service Segment increased in 2015 as compared to 2014. The increase was principally due to higher sales in the Americas Environmental Air market of approximately $29.5 million due to additional sales volume as a result of customers complying with mercury removal regulations promulgated by 19 states and certain Canadian provinces, as well as the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS). This increase was partially offset by the decline in the Americas Food market due to certain non-repeat orders and Americas Specialty market due to continued lower demand for respirators from the U.S. government. In addition, the Asian Potable Water market declined approximately $8.2 million primarily due to certain large orders in 2014 that did not repeat in 2015, along with a softer growth rate. Net sales for the Equipment segment decreased $6.0 million or 13.3% from 2014. (Dollars in millions) Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales Carbon adsorption equipment $ (3.6 ) Ballast water treatment systems (3.4 ) Traditional ultraviolet light systems Ion exchange systems 1.3 Other (0.3 ) Total Equipment $ (6.0 ) The decline in sales was due to lower demand for carbon adsorption equipment resulting from the completion of projects for installations for certain customers related to the initial Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproducts Rule and a decline in project related discretionary spending as well as lower sales for ballast water treatment systems due to continued regulatory delays and a decline in sales of our equipment to offshore service vessels, the demand from which has been impacted by ongoing low oil prices. This decline was partially offset by the higher sales for ion exchange systems. Foreign currency translation effect in the Equipment segment was $0.3 million. 21 Table of Contents Net sales in the Consumer segment decreased $2.4 million or 20.8% from 2014 due to higher demand from a single customer in 2014 that did not repeat in 2015, as well as the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $0.6 million for the Consumer segment. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percentage of net sales, was 35.8% for 2015 compared to 34.6% in 2014, a 1.2 percentage point or $6.4 million increase which was primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Approximately $3.0 million of this improvement resulted from higher margin products sold, including FLUEPAC products for mercury removal, coupled with a decline in volume of lower margin products. The Companys cost improvement programs, including lower coal costs of approximately $2.2 million, primarily from two long-term coal contracts, contributed to margin improvement in all geographic regions. In addition, the Company benefited from refunds for import duties paid of approximately $1.3 million under the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015 pertaining to purchases of coconut carbons. In the Equipment segment, improved margins on projects in progress contributed approximately $0.5 million to the improvement as compared to the prior year. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased by $5.0 million or 16.4% in 2015 as compared to 2014. The increases were primarily due to higher depreciation expense related to improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky virgin carbon manufacturing facility and the July 2015 completion of the SAP re-implementation project. Also contributing to the increase was accelerated depreciation expense of approximately $3.0 million in 2015 related to certain assets that have been or will be replaced as the result of new projects, including the Companys SAP re-implementation project. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $4.0 million or 4.9% in 2015 as compared to 2014. The increase was due to costs related to an SAP re-implementation project which commenced in January 2014 aimed at improving functionality of the Companys enterprise resource planning (ERP) system of approximately $1.0 million. The Company re-implemented SAP as of July 1, 2015. In addition, outside consulting services increased by $4.4 million. The Company experienced higher employee related costs of $2.0 million, of which $0.7 million was a result of higher pension costs. Partially offsetting these increases, which were primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment, was the positive impact of foreign currency translation of $3.1 million due to the stronger U.S. dollar which was also primarily within the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Selling, general and administrative expenses declined in the Equipment segment by $0.4 million in 2015 as compared to 2014, as a result of successful cost improvements, including a reduction in headcount. Research and development expenses were comparable in 2015 as compared to 2014. T he Company recorded $0.3 million of restructuring income in 2014 which represents reductions in the estimated accrual and a pre-tax gain for the sale of a warehouse in Belgium. Interest income was comparable in 2015 versus 2014. Interest expense increased $0.5 million in 2015 as compared to 2014 due to an increase in the outstanding borrowings under the Companys debt agreements. The additional income in other expense net of $1.2 million for 2015 as compared to 2014 was largely related to foreign exchange. The income tax provision for 2015 was $19.9 million as compared to $23.1 million in 2014. For 2015, tax expense decreased approximately $3.2 million compared to 2014 predominately due to a decrease in pre-tax earnings of $9.1 million. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company completed a U.S. research and development tax credit study for the prior years 2012 2014. The Company recognized a benefit of $1.1 million related to the research and development credit. Compared to 2014, the Companys state income taxes decreased by $0.5 million related to state apportionment changes. The 2014 tax expense includes a net $1.4 million benefit related to a completed Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examination and the effective settlement and release of uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rate for 2015 was 31.4% compared to 31.9% for the similar 2014 period. The 2015 effective rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate mainly due to the mix of income throughout foreign jurisdictions, the majority of which was related to the UK and Singapore, which reduced the rate 3.1%. The aforementioned research and development credit reduced the 2015 effective tax rate by 1.7%. The decrease of the 2015 rate was partially offset by state income taxes which increased the overall 2015 tax rate by 1.8%. 22 Table of Contents 2014 Versus 2013 The Company reported net income of $49.4 million or $0.92 per diluted share for 201 4, as compared to net income of $45.7 million or $0.84 per diluted share for 2013. Sales increased $7.2 million or 1.3% in 2014 as compared to 2013. The total negative impact of foreign currency translation on consolidated net sales was $3.2 million. Net sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment increased $15.9 million or 3.3% from 2013. The increase was principally due to higher sales in the Industrial Process market of $10.3 million driven by volume increases of approximately 10% which were primarily in Asia for the reactivation of industrial spent carbons in China and growth in the biogas market in Europe. In addition, h igher demand and pricing in the Food market of $7.0 million for sweetener customers, largely the result of three new large orders in the Americas and Europe, and higher sales in the Potable Water market of $5.8 million mainly from significant orders for municipal drinking water treatment in Europe also contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting these increases was lower demand in the Specialty Carbon market of $6.1 million primarily related to metal recovery products in the Americas of $2.5 million as sales in 2013 did not repeat in 2014, and lower demand of respirator carbon products of $1.6 million due to a temporary slowdown in U.S. Government purchases. Also contributing to the decline was the $3.6 million negative impact of foreign currency translation. Net sales in the Equipment segment decreased $9.6 million or 17.5% from 2013. The decrease was due to lower sales of traditional ultraviolet light systems of $5.8 million, carbon adsorption equipment of $3.9 million and ion exchange systems of $0.8 million as a result of several large contracts that were completed during the prior year which more than offset new contracts. Offsetting these declines were higher sales of ballast water treatment systems of $0.9 million. Foreign currency translation effects in the Equipment segment were not significant. Net sales in the Consumer segment increased $0.8 million or 7.9% from 2013. The increase was due to higher demand for activated carbon cloth as well as the positive impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $0.5 million for the Consumer segment. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percent of net sales, was 34.6% in 2014 compared to 33.0% in 2013, an increase of 1.6 percentage points. The increase was primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment and included the favorable impact of approximately $2.9 million in the Americas region from price increases that were instituted in March 2013 and lower coal costs of approximately $1.9 million primarily from two long-term coal contracts. The Company also benefited from a reduction in pension costs of approximately $1.3 million for its U.S. plans as a result of favorable investment performance and a higher discount rate. In addition, 2013 included adjustments that increased the estimated costs to complete for several projects in process in the Equipment segment that totaled approximately $0.5 million. Finally, the favorable impact from our cost improvement programs including increased carbon production volumes of 3.3% during 2014 contributed to margin improvement in all three regions. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased by $1.5 million or 5.3% in 2014 as compared to 2013. The increase for the year to date period is due primarily to depreciation related to the Companys Gila Bend, Arizona facility that was placed into service in the second quarter of 2013 and for other improvements to the Companys manufacturing facilities. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $3.9 million or 5.1% in 2014 as compared to 2013. The increase was principally due to costs related to an SAP re-implementation project which commenced in January 2014 aimed at improving functionality of the Companys ERP system of approximately $3.8 million. Also contributing to the year over year increase was a charge of $0.4 million in 2014 related to a multi-employer pension plan as compared to a benefit of $1.1 million in 2013. Partially offsetting the higher expense was lower pension costs as mentioned above of approximately $0.8 million, in spite of a $0.9 million pension settlement charge. On a segment basis, selling, general and administrative expenses for the Activated Carbon and Service segment increased approximately $5.9 million primarily as a result of the items discussed above. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Equipment segment declined approximately $2.1 million largely due to employee related expenses, and the Consumer segment was comparable to 2013. Research and development expenses increased $0.4 million or 6.1% in 2014 as compared to 2013. The increase was primarily due to higher advanced product testing costs related to mercury removal from flue gas and slightly higher employee related costs. The Company recorded $0.3 million of restructuring income in 2014 which represents reductions in the estimated accrual and a pre-tax gain for the sale of a warehouse in Belgium. In 2013, the Company recorded $0.5 million of restructuring charges related to 23 Table of Contents headcount reductions which were offset by a pre-tax gain of $0.6 million for the sale of its activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China. These restructuring charges are within the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Litigation and other contingencies of $0.3 million in 2013 relate primarily to environmental expenses at the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky production facility. Refer to additional discussion in Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Interest income was comparable in 2014 versus 2013. I nterest expense decreased $0.2 million versus the comparable 2013 period primarily due to an increase in capitalized interest and lower interest rates under the Companys borrowing arrangements. The average debt outstanding was slightly higher during 2014 as compared to 2013. Other expense net increased $0.5 million or 40.1% in 2014 as compared to 2013. The 2013 period included a $0.3 million decline in an earn-out liability related to a 2010 acquisition that did not repeat in 2014 and $0.3 million reduction in royalty income for a UV license agreement that ended in 2013. Partially offsetting these increases was income of $0.3 million related to a government incentive in China. The income tax provision for 2014 was $23.1 million as compared to $21.5 million in 2013. For 2014, tax expense increased approximately $1.6 million over 2013 related predominately due to an increase in pre-tax earnings of $5.3 million. In addition, the 2014 income tax provision includes a net $1.4 million benefit related to a completed IRS examination and the effective settlement and release of uncertain tax positions. The 2013 income tax provision included a benefit of $1.5 million from the sale of the Companys activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China which occurred in March 2013. The effective tax rate for 2014 was 31.9% compared to 32.0% for the similar 2013 period. The 2014 effective rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate mainly due to the mix of income throughout foreign jurisdictions which reduced the rate 2.9% and the settlement of uncertain tax position which reduced the rate 1.9%. The decrease was partially offset by state income taxes. Working Capital and Liquidity The Company has had sufficient financial resources to meet its operating requirements and to fund capital spending, dividend payments, share repurchases and pension plans. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $69.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, as compared to $84.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The $14.4 million decrease is primarily due to unfavorable working capital changes from higher inventories of outsourced carbon products sourced in anticipation of sales to occur in 2016. On February 18, 2015, the Companys Board of Directors reinstated its common stock dividend program. Quarterly dividends of $0.05 per share were declared and paid in each of the four quarters for the year ended December 31, 2015. No common stock dividends were declared or paid in 2014 or 2013. The Company maintains a U.S. Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) which provides for a senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Revolver) in an amount up to $225 million which expires on November 6, 2020. Availability under the Revolver is conditioned upon various customary conditions. The Credit Agreement also provides for senior unsecured delayed draw term loans (Delayed Draw Term Loans) in an aggregate amount up to $75 million which expires on November 6, 2020. Beginning January 1, 2016, quarterly repayments are required equal to 2.5% of the outstanding balance of the Delayed Draw Term Loans, with the remaining balance due on the November 6, 2020 expiration date. Total outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement increased $41.0 million in 2015. Total availability under the Credit Agreement was $189.9 million as of December 31, 2015. Certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries unconditionally guarantee all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type. The Company must comply with certain financial covenants including minimum interest coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio as defined within the Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of December 31, 2015. Calgon Carbon Japan (CCJ) maintains a Term Loan Agreement which provides for borrowings up to 1.0 billion Japanese Yen and matures on May 10, 2017. In addition, CCJ maintains a Working Capital Loan Agreement which provides for borrowings up to 1.5 billion Japanese Yen and matures on March 31, 2016. The Company is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor of CCJs obligations and the Company permitted CCJ to grant a security interest and continuing lien in certain of its assets, including inventory and accounts receivable, to secure its obligations under both loan agreements. 24 Table of Contents Refer to Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on the Companys borrowing arrangements. Share Repurchases In November 2012, the Companys Board of Directors authorized an accelerated share repurchase of Company common stock under a share repurchase program (Program). On November 20, 2012, the Company paid a purchase price of $50 million and initially received 3,276,002 shares upon inception of the Program, for an average purchase price of $15.26 per share. The actual number of shares repurchased was 340,334 shares less than the number of shares previously delivered, and as a result, the Company sold back that many shares to the counterparty in the form of a private placement of unregistered securities during 2013. In December 2013, the Companys Board of Directors approved an increase in the overall value of shares authorized for repurchase under its Program to $150 million, excluding the November 2012 accelerated share repurchase. Subsequently, the Company initiated an open market share repurchase program whereby 146,800 shares were repurchased in 2013 at an average price per share of $20.37. During 2014, the Company repurchased an additional 1,930,841 shares at an average price of $20.57 per share. During 2015, the Company repurchased an additional 2,002,444 shares at an average price of $17.45 per share. All of the aforementioned repurchases were funded from operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings and the shares are held as treasury stock. During the period January 1, 2016 through February 18, 2016, the Company repurchased an additional 518,576 shares at an average price of $15.68 per share. Subsequent to these repurchases, the Companys remaining authorization to repurchase its common stock is approximately $64.1 million. Contractual Obligations The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. The following table represents the significant contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments of the Company as of December 31, 201 5. Payments due by period (Dollars in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Long-term debt, including current portion $ 111,441 $ 7,500 $ 18,741 $ 85,200 $ Interest (1) 5,944 1,452 2,544 1,948 Operating leases 44,199 7,093 11,098 5,441 20,567 Unconditional purchase obligations (2) 63,790 20,022 40,883 1,442 1,443 Total contractual cash obligations $ 225,374 $ 36,067 $ 73,266 $ 94,031 $ 22,010 (1) As of December 31, 2015, the weighted average effective interest rate was approximately 1.35% on the Companys total borrowings of $111.4 million. The Companys debt carries variable interest rates. The interest amounts have been estimated based on the applicable interest rate per annum as of December 31, 2015, and the outstanding debt balances as of December 31, 2015, adjusted for the future required repayments shown above. (2) Primarily for the purchase of raw materials. The long-term tax payable of $0.9 million, pertaining to the tax liability related to the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, has been excluded from the above table due to the fact that the Company is unable to determine the period in which the liability will be resolved. The Company does not have any special-purpose entities. The Company maintains qualified defined benefit pension plans (the Qualified Plans), which cover certain non-union and union employees in the United States and Europe. The fair value of the Companys Qualified Plan assets has decreased to $118.7 million as of December 31, 2015 from $129.4 million as of December 31, 2014. During 2015, the Company made lump sum payments of $3.8 million to certain eligible terminated vested participants. During 2014, the Company made lump sum payments totaling $4.4 million to certain eligible terminated vested participants who elected a lump sum payment of their respective pension benefits. The Pension Protection Act, passed into law in August 2006, prescribes a new methodology for determining the minimum amount that must be contributed to U.S. defined benefit pension plans which began in 2008. During the years ended December 31, 201 5 and 2014, respectively, the Company funded its Qualified Plans with $3.1 million and $3.5 million in contributions. The Company expects that it will be required, in accordance with its funding policy, to fund the Qualified Plans with approximately $1.9 million in contributions for the year ending December 31, 2016. The Company may make additional contributions to its Qualified Plans in 2016 beyond the required funding. Additional voluntary contributions would be dependent upon, among other things, the Companys ongoing operating results and liquidity. 25 Table of Contents On February 18, 2015, the Companys Board of Directors reinstated its common stock dividend program. Quarterly dividends of $0.05 per share were declared and paid in each of the four quarters for the year ended December 31, 2015. In addition, on February 17, 2016, a common stock dividend of $0.05 per share was declared. No common stock dividends were declared during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. Dividend declaration and payout are at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Future dividends will depend on the Companys earnings, cash flows, capital investment plans to pursue long-term growth opportunities, and share repurchases, if any. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Companys off-balance sheet arrangements include the operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations disclosed above as well as letters of credit and guarantees as discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Capital Expenditures and Investments Capital expenditures were $62.3 million, $63.5 million, and $30.3 million, in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Expenditures for 2015 included $19.3 million for improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky manufacturing facility, $5.8 million of upgrades to the Tipton plant in the UK, expenditures of $11.3 million related to the Companys new headquarters facility, which includes the research and development innovation center; and $4.1 million for a SAP re-implementation project. Expenditures for 2014 included $48.9 million for improvements to manufacturing facilities including approximately $38.6 million for the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky and Pearlington, Mississippi facilities, along with expenditures for a SAP re-implementation project of approximately $6.2 million. Expenditures for 2013 included $26.0 million for improvements to manufacturing facilities including approximately $8.6 million related to the final construction of the Gila Bend, Arizona facility. Capital expenditures for 2016 are currently projected to be approximately $50.0 million to $60.0 million. The aforementioned expenditures are expected to be funded by operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings. Proceeds for sales of property, plant and equipment were not significant in 2015, 2014 or 201 3. Proceeds from the sale of business were $0.6 million in 2013 related to the sale of the Companys activated carbon manufacturing facility in Datong, China. The Company received $1.8 million and $1.7 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively, of proceeds related to government grants in the U.S., Asia and Europe. (Refer to Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report ). Cash and cash equivalents include $45.1 million and $41.7 million held by the Companys foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Generally, cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries are not readily available for use in the United States without adverse tax consequences. The Companys principal sources of liquidity are its cash flows from its operating activities or borrowings directly from its lines of credit. The Company does not believe the level of its non-U.S. cash position will have an adverse effect on working capital needs, planned growth, repayment of maturing debt, or benefit plan funding. The Company currently expects that cash from operating activities plus cash balances and available external financing will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months. The cash needs of each of the Companys reporting segments are principally covered by the segments operating cash flow on a standalone basis. Any additional needs will be funded by cash on hand or borrowings under the Companys Credit Agreement, Japanese Working Capital Loan, or other credit facilities. Specifically, the Equipment and Consumer segments historically have not required extensive capital expenditures; therefore, the Company believes that operating cash flows, cash on hand and borrowings will adequately support each of the segments cash needs. Other The Company is involved in various legal proceedings, lawsuits and claims, including employment, product warranty and environmental matters of a nature considered normal to its business. It is the Companys policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the loss amount is reasonably estimable. Refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details. 26 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Management of the Company has evaluated the accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements and related footnotes and believes the policies to be reasonable and appropriate. The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make judgments, estimates, and assumptions regarding uncertainties that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Management uses historical experience and all available information to make these judgments and estimates, and actual results will inevitably differ from those estimates and assumptions that are used to prepare the Companys financial statements at any given time. Despite these inherent limitations, management believes that Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) and the financial statements and related footnotes provide a meaningful and fair perspective of the Company. The following are the Companys critical accounting policies impacted by managements judgments, assumptions, and estimates. Management believes that the application of these policies on a consistent basis enables the Company to provide the users of the financial statements with useful and reliable information about the Companys operating results and financial condition. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue and related costs when goods are shipped or services are rendered to customers provided that ownership, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and risk of loss have passed to the customer, the price to the customer is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Revenue for major equipment projects is recognized under the percentage of completion method. The Companys major equipment projects generally have a long project life cycle from bid solicitation to project completion. The nature of the contracts are generally fixed price with milestone billings. The Company recognizes revenue for these projects based on the fixed sales prices multiplied by the percentage of completion. In applying the percentage of completion method, a projects percent complete as of any balance sheet date is computed as the ratio of total costs incurred to date divided by the total estimated costs at completion. As changes in the estimates of total costs at completion and/or estimated total losses on projects are identified, appropriate earnings adjustments are recorded during the period that the change is identified. The Company has a history of making reasonably dependable estimates of costs at completion on contracts that follow the percentage of completion method; however, due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual project costs at completion could vary from their estimates. The principal components of costs include material, direct labor, subcontracts, and allocated indirect costs. Indirect costs primarily consist of administrative labor and associated operating expenses, which are allocated to the respective projects on actual hours charged to the project utilizing a standard hourly rate. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Identifiable intangible assets acquired in business combinations are recorded based on their fair values at the date of acquisition. In accordance with guidance within ASC 350 Intangibles Goodwill and Other goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but must be evaluated for impairment. None of the Companys identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill have indefinite lives. The Company has elected to perform the annual impairment test of its goodwill, as required, on December 31 of each year by initially comparing the fair value of each of the Companys reporting units to their related carrying values. The Company will also perform an impairment test between annual tests whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit may exceed its fair value. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company performs an additional step to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by first allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of the unit and then computing the excess of the units fair value over the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, such excess represents the amount of goodwill impairment, and the Company recognizes such impairment accordingly. Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flow and other valuation methodologies, such as the guideline public company method, that are based on projections of the amounts and timing of future revenues and cash flows, assumed discount rates and other assumptions as deemed appropriate. The Company also considers such factors as historical performance, anticipated market conditions, operating expense trends and capital expenditure requirements. Each reporting unit periodically prepares discrete operating forecasts and uses these forecasts as the basis for assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analysis and guideline public company method. The Company has consistently used a discount rate commensurate with its cost of capital which ranges 10.0% to 14.5%, adjusted for inherent business risks within its respective reporting units and has consistently used a terminal growth factor of 3.0%. The Company also reconciles the estimated aggregate fair value of its reporting units as derived from the discounted cash flow analysis and guideline public company method to the Companys overall market capitalization. The Company has six reporting units for purposes of goodwill evaluation. These reporting units consist of (1) the Activated Carbon and Service segment which is segregated into two 27 Table of Contents regional reporting units, the Americas/Asia and Europe, (2) the Equipment segment which is segregated by technology (a) carbon adsorption, (b) ultraviolet light, and (c) ion exchange, and (3) the Consumer segment which includes the charcoal cloth reporting unit. The Company continually monitors its reporting units for impairment indicators and updates assumptions used in the most recent calculation of the fair value of a reporting unit as appropriate. The fair value of the Companys reporting units substantially exceeds the carrying value of its goodwill as of December 31, 2015. The Companys identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill have finite lives. Certain of these intangible assets, such as customer relationships, are amortized using an accelerated methodology while others, such as patents, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. In addition, intangible assets with finite lives are evaluated for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable, as prescribed by guidance within ASC 360 Property, Plant, and Equipment. Pensions The Company maintains Qualified Plans which cover certain union and non-union employees in the United States and Europe. As of December 31, 2015, all of the Qualified Plans do not allow for new employees to join the plans. In addition, two of the U.S. plans and one of the European plans do not allow for existing participants to continue to earn benefits under the plans. During 2015, the Company incurred a settlement charge of $0.8 million related to lump sum payments and paid $3.8 million from plan assets from both a U.S. Plan and a European Plan. During 2014, the Company offered an opportunity to certain eligible terminated vested participants in two of the U.S. plans to elect a lump sum payment of their respective pension benefits which were paid in the fourth quarter of 2014. As a result, the Company incurred a settlement charge of $1.0 million in 2014 related to such elections and paid $4.4 million from plan assets. Net periodic pension cost, which totaled $2.0 million in 2015 (including an $0.8 million settlement charge) and $1.2 million in 2014 (including a $1.0 million settlement charge and a $0.4 million charge related to a multi-employer pension plan), is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including expected long-term rates of return on the Companys Qualified Plans assets, which range from 5.54% to 7.50%. For 2016, the expected rate of return on assets will range from 5.28% to 7.00%. In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumption, the Company evaluated input from its investment advisors, including their review of asset class return expectations as well as long-term inflation assumptions. The Company also considered historical returns on asset classes and the investment mix. The expected long-term return on the U.S. Qualified Plans assets is based on a targeted asset allocation assumption of approximately 40%-50% with equity securities, 45%-55% with fixed-income securities, and 5% with other investments. The European Qualified Plans assets are based on a targeted asset allocation assumption of approximately 35%-45% with equity securities, 45%-55% with fixed-income securities, and 10%-15% with other investments. The Company regularly reviews its asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. The Company will continue to evaluate its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust as necessary. The discount rate that the Company utilizes for its Qualified Plans to determine pension obligations is based on a review of long-term bonds that receive one of the two highest ratings given by a recognized rating agency. The discount rate determined on this basis has increased from a range of 3.00% to 4.01% as of December 31, 2014 to a range of 3.15% to 4.38% as of December 31, 2015. The decline in the discount rate from those determined as of December 31, 2013 resulted in an increase in the 2015 benefit cost of approximately $1.0 million when compared to 2014. During 2014, the Society of Actuaries released a new mortality table RP-2014, and a new projection scale MP-2014. As a result of these new tables, the Company changed its mortality assumptions for its U.S. plans in 2014. The Company adopted the new RP-2014 mortality table and a modified version of the new MP-2014 projection scale for the U.S. Qualified Plans which resulted in an increase in the 2015 benefit cost of approximately $0.9 million when compared to 2014. There was no change to the mortality table in 2015. The Company estimates that it will record net periodic pension cost for the Qualified Plans that will approximate $3.1 million in 2016. The increase from 2015 is largely due to the lower than expected asset performance. Future actual net periodic pension cost will depend on future investment performance, funding levels, changes in discount rates and various other factors related to the populations participating in its Qualified Plans. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical one percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension calculations is provided in the following table: 28 Table of Contents Hypothetical Rate Increase (Decrease) U.S. Plans European Plans (Dollars in thousands) (1%) 1% (1%) 1% Discount rate Pension liabilities as of December 31, 2015 $ 14,877 $ (13,070 ) $ 7,811 $ (6,165 ) Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 2015 $ 1,531 $ (1,178 ) $ 301 $ (78 ) Indexation (1) Pension liabilities as of December 31, 2015 $ $ $ (1,808 ) $ 1,966 Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 2015 $ $ $ (156 ) $ 180 Expected return on plan assets Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 2015 $ 951 $ (951 ) $ 303 $ (305 ) Compensation Pension liabilities as of December 31, 2015 $ (952 ) $ 968 $ (873 ) $ 1,277 Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 2015 $ (192 ) $ 220 $ (115 ) $ 169 (1) Pension indexation related to the Companys German Qualified Plan is regulated by German pension law. The law dictates that a pension that is already in payment must be adjusted for inflation every 3 years which is measured by the published German price index for the same time interval. Pension indexation related to the Companys UK Chemviron Plan is based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) in the UK. For this plan, the index is capped at 5% per annum for pensions accrued prior to January 1, 2008 and is capped at 2.5% per annum for pensions accrued after December 31, 2007. For purposes of the Companys UK Sutcliffe Speakman plan, the indexation is fixed at 3% per annum for pensions accrued prior to April 6, 1997. For those pensions accrued from April 6, 1997 to July 31, 2005, the index is subject to a minimum of 3% per annum and a maximum of 5% per annum. For those pensions accrued after July 31, 2005, the index is capped at 2.5% per annum. Income Taxes During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining the Companys annual effective tax rate and in evaluating tax positions. The Company utilizes guidance within ASC 740 Income Taxes regarding the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. This guidance contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Although the Company believes it has adequately reserved for its uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. The Company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the refinement of an estimate, or a lapse of a tax statute. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related penalties and net interest. The Company is subject to varying statutory tax rates in the countries where it conducts business. Fluctuations in the mix of the Companys income between countries will result in changes to the Companys overall effective tax rate. The Company recognizes benefits associated with foreign and domestic net operating loss and credit carryforwards when the Company believes that it is more likely than not that its future taxable income in the relevant tax jurisdictions will be sufficient to enable the realization of the tax benefits. As of December 31, 201 5, the Company had recorded total deferred tax assets of $40.1 million, of which $4.9 million represents tax benefits resulting from $0.2 million of unused foreign tax credits, $2.4 million of net operating losses, $1.5 million of state tax credits, and a capital loss carryover of $0.8 million. State operating loss carryforwards of $0.6 million, net, expire from 2018 to 2034 of which approximately 97% will not expire before 2019. The Company periodically reviews the need for a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets and recognizes these deferred tax assets to the extent that realization is more likely than not. Based upon a review of earnings history and trends, forecasted earnings and the relevant expiration of carryforwards, the Company believes that the valuation allowances provided are appropriate. As of December 31, 2015, the Company has recorded a valuation allowance of approximately $2.7 million related to foreign net operating losses, domestic capital loss carryovers, U.S. passive foreign tax credits and a state tax credit. Approximately 95% of the Companys deferred tax assets, or $37.9 million, represent temporary differences associated with pensions, accruals, and inventories. Approximately 88% of the Companys deferred tax liabilities of $56.1 million as of December 31, 201 5 relate to temporary differences associated with property, plant and equipment. These temporary differences will reverse in the future due to the natural realization of temporary differences between annual book and tax reporting. The Company believes that the deferred tax liabilities generally will impact taxable income of the same character (ordinary income), timing, and jurisdiction as the deferred tax assets. 29 Table of Contents Litigation The Company is involved in various asserted and unasserted legal claims. An estimate is made to accrue for a loss contingency relating to any of these legal claims if it is probable that a liability was incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because of the subjective nature inherent in assessing the outcome of legal claims and because the potential that an adverse outcome in a legal claim could have a material impact on the Companys legal position or results of operations, such estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates. Legal fees associated with defending these various lawsuits and claims are expensed when incurred. The Company will continue to evaluate all legal matters as additional information becomes available. Reference is made to Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a discussion of litigation and contingencies. Long-Lived Assets The Company evaluates long-lived assets under the provisions of ASC 360 Property, Plant, and Equipment which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment of long-lived assets, and for disposal of long-lived assets. For assets to be held and used, the Company groups a long-lived asset or assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. An impairment loss for an asset group reduces only the carrying amounts of a long-lived asset or assets of the group being evaluated. The loss is allocated to the long-lived assets of the group on a pro-rata basis using the relative carrying amounts of those assets, except that the loss allocated to an individual long-lived asset of the group does not reduce the carrying amount of that asset below its fair value whenever that fair value is determinable without undue cost and effort. Estimates of future cash flows used to test the recoverability of a long-lived asset group include only the future cash flows that are directly associated with and that are expected to arise as a direct result of the use and eventual disposition of the asset group. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for details on recently issued accounting guidance. Outlook Activated Carbon and Service The Companys estimate of a 7% compound annual growth rate for the activated carbon market for the period 2015 through 2020 is predicated on significant demand for mercury removal carbons in North America primarily driven by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys (EPA) regulations surrounding Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) and growing demand in activated carbon usage in China. While there have been noted increases in the demand for activated carbon in China, the recent economic slowdown in China may lead to lower than previously forecasted demand for activated carbon. The Companys activated carbon and service sales volume for 2015 increased 3.1% over the comparable period in 2014. In 2012, in order to meet the expected increase in activated carbon demand, the Company completed the debottlenecking of its Pearl River facility adding approximately 8 million pounds of granular activated carbon production per year. In addition, a similar project to expand one of the Companys three virgin production lines at its Big Sandy facility commenced in the third quarter of 2014. Other sources of incremental capacity include increased utilization of the Companys activated carbon reactivation capacity in all three of its regions (Americas, Europe and Asia); operational improvements at the Companys virgin carbon manufacturing facilities due to new capital investments; a third-party plant efficiency study completed in the first half of 2014; an ongoing product rationalization project that has provided a reduction in stock keeping units (SKU) of 45%; and, the sale of outsourced carbons. Finally, the Company continues to evaluate other longer-term opportunities for virgin activated carbon expansion including a significant expansion of one of the Companys existing facilities. Impediments to near-term growth could include an economic slowdown in any or all of the regions served, impacts from delays in environmental regulations or the impact of the strength of the U.S. dollar. The Company believes that fair pricing for activated carbon in the United States of America is being achieved via the application of a tariff imposed on Chinese steam activated carbon. Under the anti-dumping rules, importers of steam activated carbon from China are potentially required to pay anti-dumping duties. The United States Department of Commerce (Commerce Department) conducts reviews in order to determine whether changes (increases or decreases) should be made to the anti-dumping tariff rate applicable to any foreign exporter. These retrospective reviews occur annually while the anti-dumping duty order (the order) is in effect (the current order is scheduled to expire in March 2017). Refer to Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for further details. The Companys most recent announced price increase was in February 2013. 30 Table of Contents Raw material costs for production in 2016 are expected to be comparable to 2015. The most significant raw material cost is coal. The quantity of coal consumed varies based on the overall production levels achieved as well as the mix of products manufactured during the year. As of December 31, 2015, the Company has approximately 84% of its 2016 anticipated coal requirements under contract or in inventory. The Company continues to make research and development expenditures related to its advanced FLUEPAC products. These products were introduced to significantly reduce the amount of powdered activated carbon (PAC) required for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas when compared to competing products. PAC is recognized today by the EPA as the leading abatement technology for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas. On December 21, 2011, the EPA issued the MATS regulation requiring mercury and other substances to be removed from the flue gas of coal-fired power plants. The final MATS regulation became effective on April 16, 2012. Compliance with MATS was required in April 2015, however, newly installed equipment and/or plants determined to be on reliability critical paths were able to get extensions of up to an additional two years. On June 29, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court in a 5-4 decision reversed the decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit) which held that the EPA did not need to consider costs when deciding to regulate power plant emissions and remanded the case back to the D.C. Circuit. On December 15, 2015, the D.C. Circuit ordered that the MATS Rule (the Rule) be remanded to the EPA without vacatur. In late February, 2016, 20 states petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to enjoin the MATS rule pending a petition for a writ of certiorari. Pending the result of this latest U.S. Supreme Court challenge, we expect the EPA to issue a final finding under 42 U.S.C. 7412(n)(1)(A) by April 15, 2016. It is the expectation of the Company that the EPA will keep the Rule and the current compliance dates in place, continuing to drive utilities to treat for mercury using FLUEPAC products. There are also mercury removal regulations for the flue gas of coal-fired power plants that remain in effect for certain states and Canadian provinces. In addition to MATS, the EPA has promulgated mercury removal regulations related to industrial boilers and cement manufacturers. Compliance dates for cement manufacturers and industrial boilers were September 9, 2015 and January 31, 2016, respectively. The Company still believes that mercury removal could become the largest North American market for activated carbon and has made great strides in establishing itself as a market leader. Based on standard carbon products, the Company estimates the annual demand for mercury removal in North America may grow to as much as 290 million to 400 million pounds by 2017. The Companys advanced products for mercury removal which have carbon usage rates of 50% to 90% less than alternative products, are important to its ongoing success in this market. Market acceptance of the Companys advanced FLUEPAC products is growing. Bidding activity with electric utilities has been active and is resulting in the receipt of significant, new orders for the Companys FLUEPAC products. The Company currently believes approximately one-third of this market is represented by the 19 states and certain Canadian provinces that have regulations in place that require mercury removal. The Company estimates that those utilities that were required to comply with the MATS regulation in April 2015 also comprise approximately one-third of the potential mercury removal market with the remaining approximate one third of the potential market being comprised of utilities that have received extensions to MATS regulation. In 2014, the Companys sales into this market totaled approximately $28.7 million. During 2015, the Company reported sales of approximately $58.2 million, an increase of approximately 103% versus the comparable period in 2014. The Companys expectation is that its ongoing share of the value of this market will be at least 30%. Compliance with other emissions regulations such as the EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and Carbon Pollution Standards (CPS) could significantly impact the amount of carbon utilized by electric utilities for compliance with MATS. In September 2013, the EPA released a Carbon Pollution Standards proposal for new electric generating units. The standards for new units are likely to have little impact on activated carbon usage in the future; however, in August of 2015, the EPA finalized CPS for existing electric generating units. The Company continues to evaluate the rule, but believes that the CPS for existing units could have a negative impact on future activated carbon demand for electric generators, should generators opt to retire or repower their coal-fired electric generation units. The Company believes the majority of U.S. electric utilities are still working to understand CSAPR and CPSs impact before implementing an integrated treatment approach to more broadly address how to invest in pollution control equipment across their power plant fleet. In addition, ongoing low natural gas costs are impacting this market as electric generation facilities shift production from coal to natural gas. In addition to mercury regulations in North America, China has announced plans for mercury removal from its coal-fired power plants. The plans, as announced, stipulate levels of mercury removal that would not likely result in large activated carbon sales. However, trials will purportedly be conducted to establish removal requirements. Treatment of municipal drinking water remains a long term growth area for the Company. An important driver of recent growth (2009 through 2014) was the reduction of Disinfection Byproducts (DBPs). DBPs are compounds that form when naturally occurring organic materials in drinking water sources react with disinfection chemicals. Granular activated carbon (GAC) is recognized by the EPA as a best available control technology (BACT) for the reduction of DBPs in drinking water. While the expansion of GAC adoption related to the EPAs Stage 2 Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproducts Rule (the DBP Rule) has slowed, the Company expects to see new business over the next several years as municipalities continue with the DBP Rule compliance activities. There is 31 Table of Contents potential for new DBP GAC installations related to two areas. First, mostly medium and small water utilities who have not achieved compliance with the DBP Rule could adopt GAC for DBP control. Second, utilities that currently use alternative disinfectants, such as chloramines, as their primary means to comply with Stage 2 may adopt GAC/chlorine for DBP Rule compliance. Disinfection with chloramines can result in the formation of emerging classes of DBPs, many of which are not yet regulated but are under study by the EPA. The EPA has now begun its Six Year Review of the DBP Rule, and a new Stage 3 Rule, which could drive additional GAC sales. Although we do not expect a DBP Stage 3 rule limiting the use of chloramines or the DBPs formed by chloramine disinfection to go into effect for a number of years, the volume of GAC required to meet these needs could be significant. We estimate that the municipal water systems in ten of the largest cities in the U.S. that currently use chloramines to meet their DBP Stage 2 compliance requirements would need initial installations, in the aggregate, of approximately 400 million pounds of GAC. Once on line, these new installations would require periodic replacement or reactivation to meet their water treatment needs. Some of these utilities are already involved in studies or pilot test programs to evaluate the use of GAC to meet their DBP treatment needs. It is possible that some of these, or other municipalities that are treating for DBPs using chloramines, will choose to switch to GAC prior to the issuance of a DBP Stage 3 regulation. Throughout 2015, we noticed an increase in the time between GAC exchange and reactivation services by customers who are relatively new to using GAC for treating DBP precursors. As they gain experience in using GAC, they are also focusing on optimizing its use in combination with other technologies to minimize their overall costs of treating their water supplies. In the short term this has reduced the volume of the reactivation exchange market from our previous expectations. However, these full-scale drinking water treatment operations demonstrates that GAC provides effective DBP protection for longer periods of time confirm the favorable economics of GAC with CMR. In fact, the Company can use an updated model that comprehends the elongated exchange frequency to show that using GAC is an even less expensive solution than previously thought. We believe use of this information could enhance our ability to convert the approximately 8000 largest municipal water systems in North America to adopt the use of GAC with CMR services for their water treatment needs. As such, we expect that the use of GAC by municipalities for treating their water supplies for DBPs or other contaminants, and our related CMR services, will continue to increase. In addition, a number of other factors are contributing to continued growth of the Companys municipal drinking water business. Harmful algal blooms can present a human health risk to community drinking water supplies; both GAC and PAC have been used successfully to protect against the intrusion of algal toxins in drinking water systems. Use of GAC can protect water treatment plants from the harmful effects of algal bloom toxicity, while increased dosing of PAC can also help when algal blooms are detected. There has been an increased public awareness and sensitivity to man-made chemical contaminants in drinking water systems. These chemicals from industrial processes can contaminate groundwater wells and are currently unregulated. It is expected that these contaminants will be regulated in the upcoming EPA cVOC Groundwater Rule. Chemical spills in waterways that serve as sources for drinking water highlight the need for utilities that draw from such sources to provide barrier defenses against such events. GAC is an ideal technology for this purpose and we expect growth in this area as more utilities look to install GAC to provide protection against spills. The drought conditions that remain prevalent in the western United States are also driving increased interest in direct potable reuse, where wastewater is further treated via advanced technologies such as GAC and ultraviolet light and then fed directly into the drinking water supplies. While the number of communities that have instituted direct potable reuse is currently small, many more are now studying implementation of this approach, driven by the scarcity of water. As more municipalities move to install GAC for the various reasons mentioned, the Company expects to see growth in its custom municipal reactivation (CMR) service business. In many cases, municipalities engage in a long term plan for CMR services at the time of their initial fill of GAC. In other circumstances, customers convert to the use of CMR services, rather than replacing spent carbon with virgin GAC, due to the affordability of this process. CMR business arrangements can be through either multi-year contracts for the services or through a periodic bidding process when the service is required. In Europe, the Company was awarded a multi-year contract by a large water provider in the United Kingdom (UK). The Company will supply virgin carbon and reactivation services for up to a ten year period and plans to restart and upgrade its Tipton plant in the UK for that purpose. The planned upgrades are estimated to require $9.5 million of capital. This plant has been undergoing equipment modifications and a significant capacity expansion to over 20 million pounds of reactivation capacity per year. The plant should return to operation with the additional capacity and planned upgrades completed in the first quarter of 2016. China also announced that it will commit billions of dollars to water and wastewater improvements. Investments are underway, but have been slower than anticipated. The Company continues to monitor this situation closely. China has also tightened the regulations for VOC emissions, which is resulting in new reactivation opportunities. 32 Table of Contents Equipment The Companys equipment business is somewhat cyclical in nature and depends on both regulations and the general health of the overall economy. The Company believes that global demand for its ultraviolet light (UV) systems will continue for a variety of applications including drinking water, waste water, and advanced oxidation. The Company also believes that demand for its ballast water treatment systems will grow. The U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) issued its ballast water treatment rule on March 23, 2012 (Coast Guard Rule). The Coast Guard Rule addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water and ultimately requires U.S. Type Approval for treatment systems used in U.S. waters. Ships wishing to release ballast water into U.S. waters must operate an acceptable treatment system on all ships built after December 1, 2013; on medium ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2014; and, on small and large ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2016. Ship operators can seek an extension of the fore mentioned compliance dates from the USCG by citing the lack of availability of U.S. Type Approved ballast water treatment systems. As of January 15, 2016, 3,866 such extensions have been granted to operators that otherwise would have been required to purchase ballast water treatment equipment under the Rule. The granting of these extensions despite the existence of acceptable but not yet U.S. Type Approved systems (like the Hyde GUARDIAN) has had a dampening effect on the market. The Coast Guard Rules discharge limits match the numerical limits proposed by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) but the USCG is more prescriptive as to testing methodology than is the IMO. The only test method currently referenced in the Coast Guard Rule cannot measure the effectiveness of UV based systems like the Companys Hyde GUARDIAN and the other best selling systems. In December 2015, the USCG decided it would not allow the Company, and several other manufacturers of ultraviolet light-based ballast water treatment systems, to use the Most Probable Number (MPN) test method for purposes of testing the Companys system to apply for type approval under USCG regulations. Although the Company has appealed the USCGs decision, its ramifications, if upheld, could have an adverse effect on the Companys ability to compete in the market for ballast water treatment systems for vessels discharging ballast water in U.S. waterways and ports, or cause the Company to invest time and incur additional expenses to redesign its system. There are five Independent Laboratories (IL) approved by the USCG to work with manufacturers in the Type Approval process: NSF International (NSF), located in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Det Norske Veritas (DNV) AS, located in Hovik, Norway, Korean Register of Shipping, located in Busan, Korea, Control Union Certifications BV located in the Netherlands, and Lloyds Register EMEA located in the United Kingdom. The ILs have begun working with manufacturers on testing for U.S. Type Approval a process that is expected to take from one to three years. In the interim, ships may discharge ballast water in U.S. ports for a period of five years after their original compliance date if they operate a ballast water treatment system that has been designated as an Alternate Management System (AMS) by the USCG. To qualify for this status, the equipment supplier must possess an international Type Approval, and must demonstrate to the USCG that the equipment performs at least as well as ballast water exchange. The Company was granted AMS status for its Hyde GUARDIAN ballast water treatment system effective April 15, 2013. In 2004, the IMO adopted the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (BWMC) which, like the Coast Guard Rule, addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water. The regulations requiring ballast water treatment will become effective one year after 30 countries representing 35% of the worlds shipping tonnage ratify the BWMC. The BWMC has now been signed by 47 countries representing 34.35% of the worlds current shipping tonnage. The BWMC is expected to be phased in over a six-year period following ratification and, coupled with the Coast Guard Rule, will require an estimated 64,000 vessels to install ballast water treatment systems. The Company believes that the total ballast water treatment market for equipment will approximate $18 billion to $28 billion after ratification of the BWMC. Factors influencing the size of the market include the number of manufacturers who are ultimately able to effectively serve this market and ongoing uncertainties surrounding the USCG type approval process. The Hyde GUARDIAN system, which employs filtration and ultraviolet light technology to filter and disinfect ballast water, offers cost, safety, and technological advantages. Hyde GUARDIAN has received Type Approval from Lloyds Register on behalf of the U.K. Maritime and Coast Guard Agency which confirms compliance with the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention. Hyde GUARDIAN has also received Class Society Type Approval from Lloyds Register (LR), American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), and Russian Maritime Registry of Shipping (RS). The strategic acquisition of Hyde Marine provided the Company immediate entry into a global, regulation driven market with major long-term growth potential. To date, most of the Hyde GUARDIAN systems sold have been for new ship builds but long term, most of Hydes sales are expected to be for systems retrofitted into existing ships. During 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, the number of new ship builds was significantly lower than in prior years and the retrofit market for ballast water equipment has been slow to ramp up owing to the delay in ratification of the IMO BWMC and the fore mentioned USCG extensions. This, along with the more recent shift in oil and gas economics has suppressed the number of Hyde GUARDIAN orders received. During 2015, the Company sold 50 ballast water treatment systems. During 2014, 2013, 2012, and 2011, the Company sold 113, 64, 68 and 82 ballast water treatment systems, respectively. Subsequent to the January 2010 acquisition of Hyde Marine, the Company has sold approximately 450 systems valued at nearly $88 million. 33 Table of Contents Backlog for the Equipment segment as of December 31, 2015 was $18.5 million, while backlog as of December 31, 2014 was $19.8 million. Consumer The Companys Consumer segment supplies activated carbon cloth for use in medical, military, and specialty applications. The Company anticipates future growth in medical applications for wound care as its cloth aids in the healing process while providing odor control. The Company recently began to dedicate marketing and sales resources to this area of its business, and expects to see modest annual growth beginning in 2016.