Item 2 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition This discussion should be read in connection with the information contained in the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Financial Statements. Results of Operations Consolidated net sales increased by $16.9 million or 15.7% and $49.7 million or 16.5% for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010, respectively, versus the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2009. The net effect on sales from the acquisitions completed in the first quarter of 2010 was $16.2 million and $26.2 million for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010. The impact of foreign currency translation on consolidated net sales was ($2.1) million and ($1.4) million for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010 versus the comparable 2009 periods. Net sales for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010 for the Activated Carbon and Service segment increased $15.8 million or 16.7% and $49.5 million or 18.9%, respectively, versus the similar 2009 periods. The net effect of the acquisitions completed in the first quarter of 2010 was $14.5 million and $23.3 million on the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010, respectively, versus the similar 2009 periods. Higher demand in the Environmental Air Treatment, Industrial Process, and Food markets of $3.2 million, $0.7 million, and $0.6 million, respectively, also contributed to the quarter over quarter increase. However, this was partially offset by lower demand in the Environmental Water Treatment and Potable Water markets of $0.8 million and $1.7 million. Sales in the Potable Water market for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 included a supply of a large quantity of activated carbon for a new potable water treatment facility in Asia that did not repeat in 2010. The increase for the year-to-date period ended September 30, 2010 was primarily due to higher demand in the Environmental Air Treatment, Potable Water, and Industrial Process markets of $16.2 million, $5.9 million, and $3.4 million, respectively. Net sales for the Equipment segment increased $1.5 million or 14.7% and $0.6 million or 1.9%, respectively, versus the similar 2009 periods. Although the acquisition of Hyde Marine Inc. (Hyde) in the first quarter of 2010 contributed $1.7 million and $2.9 million to the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010, respectively, lower revenue recognized for ultraviolet light systems of $2.1 million and $2.5 million offset it. However, higher revenue recognized for traditional carbon adsorption equipment of $2.0 million was the primary reason for the overall increase for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 versus the similar 2009 period. Net sales for the Consumer segment for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010 declined $0.4 million or 16.4% and $0.4 million or 5.9%, respectively, versus the similar 2009 periods. The decrease was due to lower demand for both activated carbon cloth and PreZerve products of $0.2 million and $0.2 million, respectively, for each of the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010. Net sales less cost of products sold, as a percentage of net sales, was 33.7% for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 as compared to 33.9% for the similar 2009 period, a decrease of 0.2%. Net sales less cost of products sold, as a percentage of net sales, was 34.8% for the year-to-date period ended September 30, 2010 as compared to 32.7% for the similar 2009 period, an increase of 2.1 percentage points or $23.5 million. The increase for the year-to-date period was primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment of $21.9 million or 1.9% as a result of the aforementioned higher demand for certain activated carbon and service products. The Equipment segment increased by $1.6 million or 0.2% principally due to a higher 34 Table of Contents volume of traditional carbon adsorption systems sold. The Consumer segment was comparable for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased $0.8 million and $3.4 million, respectively, during the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010 versus the similar 2009 periods. The acquisitions contributed $0.5 million and $1.0 million to the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010, respectively. The remaining increase for both periods was primarily due to increased depreciation related to the significant capital projects at the Catlettsburg, Kentucky facility that were placed into service during 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $3.4 million and $8.4 million, respectively, for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010 versus the comparable 2009 periods. The increase for both periods includes $2.7 million and $7.6 million of on-going expenses related to acquisitions completed in the first quarter of 2010, respectively, for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010. Also contributing to the increase for the 2010 periods were higher employee related costs. Legal expenses were comparable quarter over quarter despite incurring $0.6 million in legal fees related to the ADA-ES matter during the quarter ended September 30, 2010. Research and development expenses increased $0.8 million and $2.1 million, respectively, for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010 as compared to the 2009 periods. The aforementioned acquisitions had a $0.4 million and $0.7 million effect on both the quarter and year-to-date periods, respectively. Also contributing to the increase for the 2010 periods was increased outside testing related to mercury removal from flue gas. The $11.5 million litigation contingency for the year-to-date period ended September 30, 2010 was as a result of the adverse verdict related to the ADA-ES, Inc. matter that occurred in July 2010. The Company previously recorded a $250 thousand litigation contingency in the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and a $250 thousand litigation contingency in the quarter ended June 30, 2008. The Company has appealed the verdict (Refer to Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). As a result of the acquisitions of Zwicky, Hyde, and an additional interest in its Japanese joint venture which are more fully described within Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1, the Company recorded a gain of $3.1 million during the year-to-date period ended September 30, 2010. Other expense for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 was comparable to 2009. The year-to-date period ended September 30, 2010 decreased $1.4 million versus the similar 2009 period which is primarily due to the write-off of $0.8 million of financing fees related to the Companys Prior Credit Facility which occurred during the year-to-date period ended September 30, 2009. Also contributing to the decrease was the positive impact of foreign exchange of $0.6 million for the year-to-date period ended September 30, 2010 as compared to the similar 2009 period. 35 Table of Contents The loss on extinguishment of debt of $0.9 million for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2009 was due to the final conversion of the remaining $6.0 million of Notes (Refer to Note 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). Interest income and expense for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010 were comparable to the similar 2009 periods. The income tax provision increased $4.7 million and $5.5 million, respectively, for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010 versus the similar 2009 periods. The increase in the tax provision was primarily due to the Companys determination that it was no longer in an overall foreign loss position in 2009, which triggered the release of $5.0 million of the previously established valuation allowance. For the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010, the Company continues to identify additional foreign source income, which gives it the ability to more fully utilize its foreign tax credits currently generated as well as those carried forward. During the quarter ended September 30, 2010, the Company released $0.8 million of valuation allowance on foreign tax credits primarily as a result of the amendment and filing of previous years tax returns. The effective tax rate for the year-to-date period ended September 30, 2010 was 31.9% compared to 17.4% for the year-to-date period ended September 30, 2009. The year-to-date period ended September 30, 2010 tax rate was 2.6% lower than the federal statutory income tax rate due to permanent deductions on qualified manufacturing income and 4.1% lower than the federal statutory income tax rate due to valuation allowance releases on foreign tax credits. These decreases were partially offset by state income taxes. The year-to-date period ended September 30, 2009 tax rate was lower than the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the valuation allowance release, which lowered the rate by 16.7%. The Company also benefited from a reversal of the deferred tax liability related to the CMCC joint ventures unremitted earnings by 2.5% as a result of sufficient foreign source income that the Company determined would be generated. Absent the deferred income tax releases and other less significant discrete items, the year-to-date period ended September 30, 2009 effective tax rate of 38.4% was higher than the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate mainly due to permanent items and state income taxes. The Company uses an annualized estimate of pre-tax earnings to calculate its effective tax rate. Throughout the year this annualized estimate may change based on actual results and annual earnings estimate revisions in various tax jurisdictions. Because the Companys permanent tax benefits are relatively constant, changes in the annualized estimate may have a significant impact on the effective tax rate in future periods. The Company provides an estimate for income taxes based on an evaluation of the underlying accounts, its tax filing positions and interpretations of existing law. Changes in estimates are reflected in the year of settlement or expiration of the statute of limitations. Under ASC 740, the Company must recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial 36 Table of Contents statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. Equity in income from equity investments for the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010 decreased $0.5 million and $1.2 million, respectively, due principally to the first quarter acquisition of a controlling interest in the Companys joint venture in Japan whereby its financial results have been incorporated on a consolidated basis (Refer to Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). Financial Condition Working Capital and Liquidity Cash flows provided by operating activities were $25.7 million for the period ended September 30, 2010 compared to $49.1 million for the comparable 2009 period. The $23.4 million decrease is primarily as a result of working capital changes related to receivables and inventories. The higher sales volume for the period ended September 30, 2010 contributed to an increase in receivables of $3.6 million whereas receivables declined $3.8 million during the similar 2009 period due to improved cash collections. Inventory for the period ended September 30, 2010 increased $4.4 million primarily as a result of an increase in finished goods whereas it declined $7.4 million in the similar 2009 period as a result of inventory control measures in Europe and the U.S. as well as the reduction of outsourced carbon products. The Company recorded purchase of businesses, net of cash, of $2.1 million related to the acquisitions made during the period ended March 31, 2010 (Refer to Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). Common stock dividends were not paid during the quarter and year-to-date periods ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total debt at September 30, 2010 was $24.5 million and zero at December 31, 2009. The entire balance at September 30, 2010 relates to borrowings under the Japanese Credit Facility and Term Loan which are a result of the increased ownership of the joint venture in Japan (Refer to Notes 1 and 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2036 On August 18, 2006, the Company issued $75.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.00% Notes due in 2036 (the Notes). The Notes accrued interest at the rate of 5.00% per annum which was payable in cash semi-annually in arrears on each February 15 and August 15, which commenced February 15, 2007. The Notes were eligible to be converted under certain circumstances. During the quarter ended September 30, 2009, the Company exchanged approximately 1.2 million shares of its common stock for the remaining $6.0 million of Notes. A pre-tax loss of $0.9 million was recorded on extinguishment related primarily to the outstanding discount and deferred financing fees of the Notes upon conversion. As of December 31, 2009, all Notes have been converted. Effective January 1, 2009, the Company implemented guidance within Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 470-20 Debt with Conversion and Other Options. This new guidance required the issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments in a manner that reflects the issuers 37 Table of Contents nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. This new accounting method has been applied retrospectively to all periods presented with an impact to retained earnings of $9.2 million as of January 1, 2009. In accordance with guidance within ASC 470-20, the debt discount of $21.9 million was being amortized over the period from August 18, 2006 (the issuance date) to June 15, 2011 (the first put date on the Notes). The effective interest rate for all periods on the liability component was approximately 13.8%. The Company also incurred original issuance costs of $0.4 million which had been deferred and were being amortized over the same period as the discount. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009, the Company recorded interest expense of $0.1 million and $0.4 million related to the Notes, of which $47 thousand and $0.2 million related to the amortization of the discount and $38 thousand and $0.2 million related to contractual coupon interest, respectively. Credit Facility On August 14, 2008, the Company entered into a third amendment (the Third Amendment) to its Credit Facility (the Prior Credit Facility). The Third Amendment permitted borrowings in an amount up to $60.0 million and included a separate U.K. sub-facility and a separate Belgian sub-facility. The Prior Credit Facility permitted the total revolving credit commitment to be increased up to $75.0 million. The facility was scheduled to mature on May 15, 2011. Availability for domestic borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility was based upon the value of eligible inventory, accounts receivable and property, plant and equipment, with separate borrowing bases to be established for foreign borrowings under a separate U.K. sub-facility and a separate Belgian sub-facility. Availability under the Prior Credit Facility was conditioned upon various customary conditions. On May 8, 2009, the Company and certain of its domestic subsidiaries entered into a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) that replaced the Companys Prior Credit Facility. Concurrent with the closing under the Credit Agreement, the Company terminated and paid in full its obligations under the Prior Credit Facility. The Company provided cash collateral to the former agent bank for the remaining exposure related to outstanding letters of credit and certain derivative obligations. The cash collateral is shown as restricted cash within the consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009. The Company was in compliance with all applicable financial covenants and other restrictions under the Prior Credit Facility as of the effective date of its termination and in May 2009, wrote off deferred costs of approximately $0.8 million, pre-tax, related to the Prior Credit Facility. The Credit Agreement provides for an initial $95.0 million revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) which expires on May 8, 2014. So long as no event of default has occurred and is continuing, the Company from time to time may request one or more increases in the total revolving credit commitment under the Revolving Credit Facility of up to $30.0 million in the aggregate. No assurance can be given, however, that the total revolving credit commitment will be increased above $95.0 million. Availability under the Revolving Credit Facility is conditioned upon various customary conditions. A quarterly nonrefundable commitment fee is payable by the Company based on the unused availability under the Revolving Credit Facility and is currently equal to 38 Table of Contents 0.25%. Any outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility on July 2, 2012, up to $50.0 million, automatically convert to a term loan maturing on May 8, 2014 (the Term Loan), with the total revolving credit commitment under the Revolving Credit Facility being reduced at that time by the amount of the Term Loan. Total availability under the Revolving Credit Facility at September 30, 2010 was $92.3 million, after considering outstanding letters of credit. On November 30, 2009, the Company entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement (the First Amendment). The First Amendment relaxes certain restrictions contained in the Credit Agreement so as to permit the Company to form subsidiaries in connection with future acquisitions or for corporate planning purposes; to permit increased capital expenditures; to increase the amount of cash that may be down-streamed to non-domestic subsidiaries; to permit the issuance of up to $8.0 million of letters of credit outside the Credit Agreement; to increase the amount of indebtedness the Company may obtain outside of the Credit Agreement; to permit the pledging of foreign assets to secure certain foreign debt; and to permit the purchase of 51% of Calgon Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (CMCC) not already owned by the Company, including funding that transaction with foreign debt. The interest rate on amounts owed under the Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility will be, at the Companys option, either (i) a fluctuating base rate based on the highest of (A) the prime rate announced from time to time by the lenders, (B) the rate announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on that day as being the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions arranged by federal funds brokers on the previous trading day plus 3.00% or (C) a daily LIBOR rate plus 2.75%, or (ii) LIBOR-based borrowings in one to six month increments at the applicable LIBOR rate plus 2.50%. A margin may be added to the applicable interest rate based on the Companys leverage ratio as set forth in the First Amendment. The interest rate per annum as of September 30, 2010 using option (i) above would have been 3.25% if any borrowings were outstanding. The Company incurred issuance costs of $1.0 million which were deferred and are being amortized over the term of the Credit Agreement. As of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. Certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries unconditionally guarantee all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility are secured by a first perfected security interest in certain of the domestic assets of the Company and the subsidiary guarantors, including certain real property, inventory, accounts receivable, equipment and capital stock of certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type, including limitations on the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to indebtedness, liens, investments, capital expenditures, mergers and acquisitions, dispositions of assets and transactions with affiliates. The Credit Agreement also provides for customary events of default, including failure to pay principal or interest when due, 39 Table of Contents failure to comply with covenants, the fact that any representation or warranty made by the Company is false or misleading in any material respect, certain insolvency or receivership events affecting the Company and its subsidiaries and a change in control of the Company. If an event of default occurs, the lenders will be under no further obligation to make loans or issue letters of credit. Upon the occurrence of certain events of default, all outstanding obligations of the Company automatically become immediately due and payable, and other events of default will allow the lenders to declare all or any portion of the outstanding obligations of the Company to be immediately due and payable. The Credit Agreement also contains a covenant which includes limitations on its ability to declare or pay cash dividends, subject to certain exceptions, such as dividends declared and paid by its subsidiaries and cash dividends paid by the Company in an amount not to exceed 50% of cumulative net after tax earnings following the closing date of the agreement if certain conditions are met. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of September 30, 2010. Japanese Loans and Credit Facility On March 31, 2010, the Company entered into a Revolving Credit Facility Agreement (the Japanese Credit Facility) totaling 2.0 billion Japanese Yen in order to partially finance the purchase of CCJ. This credit facility is unsecured and matures on March 31, 2011. Calgon Carbon Corporation provided a formal guarantee for up to eighty percent (80%) of all of the indebtedness of CCJ in its capacity as the borrower under the Japanese Credit Facility. The interest rate on amounts owed under the Japanese Credit Facility is based on a three-month Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate (TIBOR) plus 0.675%. The interest rate per annum as of September 30, 2010 was 1.047%. Total borrowings outstanding under the Japanese Credit Facility were 1.44 billion Japanese Yen or $17.3 million at September 30, 2010 and are shown as short- term debt within the consolidated balance sheet presented. The Company also entered into two other borrowing arrangements as part of the purchase of CCJ on March 31, 2010, a Term Loan Agreement (the Japanese Term Loan), and a Working Capital Loan Agreement (the Japanese Working Capital Loan). Calgon Carbon Corporation is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor of CCJs obligations and the Company permitted CCJ to grant a security interest and continuing lien in certain of its assets, including inventory and accounts receivable, to secure its obligations under both loan agreements. The Japanese Term Loan provided for a principal amount of 722.0 million Japanese Yen, or $7.7 million at March 31, 2010. This loan matures on March 31, 2013, bears interest at 1.975% per annum, and is payable in monthly installments of 20.0 million Japanese Yen beginning on April 30, 2010, with a final payment of 22.0 million Japanese Yen. Accordingly, 240.0 million Japanese Yen or $2.9 million is recorded as current and 362.0 million Japanese Yen or $4.3 million is recorded as long-term debt within the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2010. The Japanese Working Capital Loan provides for borrowings up to 1.5 billion Japanese Yen and bears interest based on a daily short-term prime rate fixed on the day a borrowing takes place, which was 1.475% per annum at September 30, 2010. This loan matures on March 31, 2011 and is renewable annually for a nominal fee. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Japanese Working Capital Loan at September 30, 2010. 40 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. As of September 30, 2010, there have been no significant changes in the payment terms of lease agreements and unconditional purchase obligations since December 31, 2009, except for the addition of debt totaling $24.5 million and the redeemable non-controlling interest of $1.6 million, related to the Companys increased ownership of the joint venture in Japan (Refer to Notes 1 and 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1), as well as the addition of an unconditional purchase obligation related to new raw material contracts entered into during the quarter ended June 30, 2010. The following table represents the significant contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments of the Company as of December 31, 2009, as adjusted for the changes mentioned above. Due in (Thousands) 2010(1) 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Short-term debt $ 16,659 $ 17,253 $ $ $ $ $ 33,912 Current portion of long-term debt 2,087 2,156 4,243 Long-term debt 719 2,874 743 4,336 Operating leases 6,272 5,686 5,092 4,773 4,418 4,696 30,937 Unconditional purchase obligations(2) 42,153 32,326 7,374 1,575 263 83,691 Total contractual cash Obligations(3) $ 67,171 $ 58,140 $ 15,340 $ 7,091 $ 4,681 $ 4,696 $ 157,119 (1) The 2010 amounts include payments of $16.7 million and $1.4 million for short-term and current portion of long-term debt, respectively, that were made during the nine months ended September 30, 2010. (2) Primarily for the purchase of raw materials, transportation, and information systems services. (3) Interest on debt obligations was excluded as it is not material. The cash needs of each of the Companys reporting segments are principally covered by the segments operating cash flow on a stand alone basis. Any additional needs will be funded by cash on hand or borrowings under the Companys credit facility. Specifically, the Equipment and Consumer segments historically have not required extensive capital expenditures; therefore, the Company believes that cash on hand and borrowings will adequately support each of the segments cash needs over the next twelve months. Capital Expenditures and Investments Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment totaled $25.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 compared to expenditures of $38.3 million for the same period in 2009. The expenditures for the period ended September 30, 2010 consisted primarily of improvements to the Companys manufacturing facilities of $17.4 million and $3.0 million for customer capital. The expenditures for the period ended September 30, 2009 consisted primarily of improvements to the Companys manufacturing facilities of $32.2 million, of which $8.4 million was directly related to the April 2009 re-start of a previously idled production line at the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky facility and $12.0 million related to a new pulverization facility at the same location, and 41 Table of Contents $2.8 million for customer capital. Capital expenditures for 2010 are projected to be approximately $50.0 million to $55.0 million. The aforementioned expenditures are expected to be funded by operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings. Labor Agreements The labor agreement for the Companys workforce at its Catlettsburg, Kentucky facility expired on April 2, 2009. In June 2010, the parties successfully negotiated the terms and conditions of a replacement agreement which expires in 2013 (Refer to Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). Environmental Matters, Litigation, and Contingencies: On March 20, 2007, the Company and ADA-ES entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) providing for cooperation between the companies to attempt to jointly market powdered activated carbon (PAC) to the electric power industry for the removal of mercury from coal fired power plant flue gas. The MOU provided for commissions to be paid to ADA-ES in respect of product sales. The Company terminated the MOU effective as of August 24, 2007 for convenience. Neither party had entered into sales or supply agreements with prospective customers as of that date. On March 3, 2008, the Company entered into a supply agreement with a major U.S. power generator for the sale of powdered activated carbon products with a minimum purchase obligation of approximately $55 million over a 5 year period. ADA-ES claimed that it is entitled to commissions of at least $8.25 million over the course of the 5 year contract, which the Company denies. On September 29, 2008, the Company filed suit in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania for a declaratory judgment from the Court that the Company has no obligation to pay ADA-ES commissions related to this contract or for any future sales made after August 24, 2007. The Company was countersued alleging breach of contract. A jury trial was concluded in July 2010 and the Company received an adverse jury verdict determining that it breached its contract with ADA-ES by failing to pay commissions on sales of PAC to the mercury removal market. The jury awarded $3.0 million for past damages and $9.0 million in a lump sum for future damages, which is recorded as a component of current liabilities at June 30, 2010. The Company recorded a litigation contingency of $11.5 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. The Company previously recorded a $250 thousand litigation contingency in the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and a $250 thousand litigation contingency in the quarter ended June 30, 2008. The Company filed post trial motions to reverse or alter the verdict which were denied by the Court in October 2010. The Company has filed an appeal to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. In 2002, the Company was sued by For Your Ease Only (FYEO). The case has been stayed since 2003. The case arises out of the Companys patent covering anti-tarnish jewelry boxes, U.S. Patent No. 6,412,628 (the 628 Patent). FYEO and the Company are competitors in the sale of jewelry boxes through a common retailer. In 2002, the Company asserted to the retailer that FYEOs jewelry box infringed the 628 Patent. FYEO filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois for a declaration that the patent was invalid and not infringed, and claiming that the Company had tortuously interfered with its relationship with the retailer. The 42 Table of Contents Company defended the suit until December 2003, when the case was stayed pending a re-examination of the 628 Patent in the Patent and Trademark Office. That patent was re-examined and certain claims of that patent were rejected by order dated February 25, 2008. The Company appealed, but the re-examination was affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The Patent Trademark Office issued a re-examination certificate on August 25, 2009. The parties have resumed discovery and the stay on litigation has been lifted. The Company will assert that, notwithstanding the rejection of certain claims in the 628 Patent, the Company had a good-faith belief that its patent was valid and that FYEOs product infringed, and that such belief insulates the Company from liability for publicizing its patent. At this time the Company cannot predict with any certainty the outcome of this matter or range of loss, if any. Calgon Carbon Japan KK f/k/a Calgon Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (CCJ) sold carbon, which it purchased from a third-party supplier, for a DeSOX and DeNOX application to Sumitomo Heavy Industries, Ltd. (Sumitomo) which in turn sold it to Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe Steel). The Kobe Steel purchase order sets forth certain quality standards with respect to the activated carbon, particularly with respect to the quality of repeated use for DeSOX and DeNOX. Testing has shown that the activated carbon provided by CCJ to Sumitomo for use by Kobe Steel did not meet the quality requirements as set forth in the purchase order. At that time Kobe Steel notified Sumitomo with regard to a potential claim for defective products. Sumitomo in turn notified CCJ. Kobe Steel is demanding that CCJ replace all the carbon that was delivered. CCJ believes that the quality issues can be met in less costly ways by the introduction of an additive. Alternatively, CCJ believes that less than all the carbon should be replaced. In addition CCJ believes that it should be entitled to take back any of the alleged non-conforming product that it is replaces. If CCJ receives such product back, it could help to mitigate any loss. The parties are continuing to negotiate a solution. Mitsubishi Chemical Company (MCC) has agreed to indemnify CCJ for 51% of any loss it may suffer for the matter. At this time the Company cannot predict with any certainty the outcomes of this matter or a range of loss, if any. Each of the Companys U.S. production facilities has permits and licenses regulating air emissions and water discharges. All of the Companys U.S. production facilities are controlled under permits issued by local, state and federal air pollution control entities. The Company is presently in compliance with these permits. Continued compliance will require administrative control and will be subject to any new or additional standards. In May 2003, the Company partially discontinued operation of one of its three activated carbon lines at its Catlettsburg, Kentucky facility known as B-line. The Company needed to install pollution abatement equipment in order to remain in compliance with state requirements regulating air emissions before resuming full operation of this line. During 2008, the Company installed state of the art wet scrubbers and made process improvements to B-line. The Company invested approximately $21 million to upgrade and abate B-line which was put into production in April 2009. In conjunction with the February 2004 purchase of substantially all of Waterlinks operating assets and the stock of Waterlinks U.K. subsidiary, environmental studies were performed on Waterlinks Columbus, Ohio property by environmental consulting firms which provided an identification and characterization of the areas of contamination. In addition, these firms identified alternative methods of remediating the property, identified 43 Table of Contents feasible alternatives and prepared cost evaluations of the various alternatives. The Company concluded from the information in the studies that a loss at this property is probable and recorded the liability as a component of current liabilities at September 30, 2010 and noncurrent other liabilities at December 31, 2009 in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. At September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the balance recorded was $4.0 million. Liability estimates are based on an evaluation of, among other factors, currently available facts, existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and the remediation experience of other companies. The Company has not incurred any environmental remediation expense for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2010 and 2009. It is reasonably possible that a change in the estimate of this obligation will occur as remediation preparation and remediation activity commences in the near term. The ultimate remediation costs are dependent upon, among other things, the requirements of any state or federal environmental agencies, the remediation methods employed, the determination of the final scope of work, and the extent and types of contamination which will not be fully determined until experience is gained through remediation and related activities. The Company has commissioned a more definitive environmental assessment to be performed during the third and fourth quarters of 2010 to better understand the extent of contamination and appropriate methodologies for remediation. Preliminary results indicate that a potentially larger portion of the property than originally known may have some contamination. The effect this may have on remediation cost is unknown at this time, but the company believes it will not impact the liability. The Company also plans to begin remediation by the second quarter of 2011, with a current estimated completion by the end of 2011. This estimated time frame is based on the Companys current knowledge of the contamination and may change after the conclusion of the more definitive environmental assessment. By letter dated January 22, 2007, the Company received from the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Region 4 a report of a hazardous waste facility inspection performed by the EPA and the Kentucky Department of Environmental Protection (KYDEP) as part of a Multi Media Compliance Evaluation of the Companys Big Sandy Plant in Catlettsburg, Kentucky that was conducted on September 20 and 21, 2005. Accompanying the report was a Notice of Violation (NOV) alleging multiple violations of the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and corresponding EPA and KYDEP hazardous waste regulations. The alleged violations mainly concern the hazardous waste spent activated carbon regeneration facility. The Company met with the EPA on April 17, 2007 to discuss the inspection report and alleged violations, and submitted written responses in May and June 2007. In August 2007, the EPA notified the Company that it believes there were still significant violations of RCRA that are unresolved by the information in the Companys responses, without specifying the particular violations. During a meeting with the EPA on December 10, 2007, the EPA indicated that the agency would not pursue certain other alleged violations. Based on discussions during the December 10, 2007 meeting, subsequent communications with the EPA, and in connection with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) Notice referred to below, the Company has taken actions to address and remediate a number of the unresolved alleged violations. The Company believes, and the EPA has indicated, that the number of unresolved issues as to alleged continuing violations cited in the January 22, 2007 NOV has been reduced substantially. The EPA can take formal enforcement action to require the Company to remediate any or all of the unresolved alleged continuing violations which could require the Company to incur substantial additional costs. The EPA can also take formal enforcement 44 Table of Contents action to impose substantial civil penalties with respect to violations cited in the NOV, including those which have been admitted or resolved. The Company is awaiting further response from the EPA and cannot predict with any certainty the probable outcome of this matter or range of potential loss, if any. On July 3, 2008, the EPA verbally informed the Company that there are a number of unresolved RCRA violations at the Big Sandy Plant which may render the facility unacceptable to receive spent carbon for reactivation from sites regulated under CERCLA pursuant to the CERCLA Off-Site Rule. The Company received written notice of the unacceptability determination on July 14, 2008 (the CERCLA Notice). The CERCLA Notice alleged multiple violations of RCRA and four releases of hazardous waste. The alleged violations and releases were cited in the September 2005 multi-media compliance inspections, and were among those cited in the January 2007 NOV described in the preceding paragraph as well. The CERCLA Notice gave the Company until September 1, 2008 to demonstrate to the EPA that the alleged violations and releases are not continuing, or else the Big Sandy Plant would not be able to receive spent carbon from CERCLA sites until the EPA determined that the facility is again acceptable to receive such CERCLA wastes. This deadline subsequently was extended several times. The Company met with the EPA in August 2008 regarding the CERCLA Notice and submitted a written response to the CERCLA Notice prior to the meeting. By letter dated February 13, 2009, the EPA informed the Company that based on information submitted by the Company indicating that the Big Sandy Plant has returned to physical compliance for the alleged violations and releases, the EPA had made an affirmative determination of acceptability for receipt of CERCLA wastes at the Big Sandy Plant. The EPAs determination is conditioned upon the Company treating certain residues resulting from the treatment of the carbon reactivation furnace off-gas as hazardous waste and not sending material dredged from the onsite wastewater treatment lagoons offsite other than to a permitted hazardous waste treatment, storage or disposal facility. The Company has requested clarification from the EPA regarding these two conditions. The Company has also met with Headquarters of the EPA Solid Waste Division (Headquarters) on March 6, 2009 and presented its classification argument, with the understanding that Headquarters would advise Region 4 of the EPA. By letter dated January 5, 2010, the EPA determined certain residues resulting from the treatment of the carbon reactivation furnace off-gas are RCRA listed hazardous wastes and the material dredged from the onsite wastewater treatment lagoons is a RCRA listed hazardous waste and that they need to be managed in accordance with RCRA regulations. The cost to treat and/or dispose of the material dredged from the lagoons as hazardous waste could be substantial. However, by letter dated January 22, 2010, the Company received a determination from the KYDEP Division of Waste Management that the material is not listed hazardous waste when recycled as had been the Companys practice. The Company believes that pursuant to EPA regulations, KYDEP is the proper authority to make this determination. Thus, the Company believes that there is no basis for the position set forth in the EPAs January 5, 2010 letter and the Company will vigorously defend any complaint on the matter. The Company has had several additional discussions with Region 4 of the EPA. The Company has indicated to the EPA that it is willing to work with the agency toward a solution subject to a comprehensive resolution of all the issues. By letter dated May 12, 2010, from the Department of Justice Environmental and Natural Resources Division (the DOJ), the Company was informed that the DOJ was prepared to take appropriate enforcement action against the Company for the NOV and other violations under the Clean Water Act (CWA). The Company met with the DOJ on July 9, 2010 and agreed to permit more comprehensive testing of the lagoons and to share data and analysis already obtained. On 45 Table of Contents July 19, 2010, the EPA sent the Company a formal information request with respect to such data and analysis which was answered by the Company. In September 2010 representatives of the EPA met with Company personnel for two days at the Big Sandy plant. The visit included an inspection by the EPA and discussion regarding the plan for additional testing of the lagoons and material dredged from the lagoons. The Company cannot predict with any certainty the probable outcome of this matter or range of potential loss, if any. By letter dated August 18, 2008, the Company was notified by the EPA Suspension and Debarment Division (SDD) that because of the alleged violations described in the CERCLA Notice, the SDD was making an assessment of the Companys present responsibility to conduct business with Federal Executive Agencies. Representatives of the SDD attended the August 2008 EPA meeting. On August 28, 2008, the Company received a letter from the Division requesting additional information from the Company in connection with the SDDs evaluation of the Companys potential business risk to the Federal Government, noting that the Company engages in procurement transactions with or funded by the Federal Government. The Company provided the SDD with all information requested by the letter in September 2008. The SDD can suspend or debar a Company from sales to the Federal Government directly or indirectly through government contractors or with respect to projects funded by the Federal Government. The Company estimates that revenue from sales made directly to the Federal Government or indirectly through government contractors comprised less than 7% of its total revenue for the nine month period ended September 30, 2010. The Company is unable to estimate sales made directly or indirectly to customers and or projects that receive federal funding. In October 2008, the SDD indicated that it was still reviewing the matter but that another meeting with the Company was not warranted at that time. The Company believes that there is no basis for suspension or debarment on the basis of the matters asserted by the EPA in the CERCLA Notice or otherwise. The Company has had no further communication with the SDD since October 2008 and believes the likelihood of any action being taken by the SDD is remote. In June 2007, the Company received a Notice Letter from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) stating that the NYSDEC had determined that the Company is a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) at the Frontier Chemical Processing Royal Avenue Site in Niagara Falls, New York (the Site). The Notice Letter requests that the Company and other PRPs develop, implement and finance a remedial program for Operable Unit #1 at the Site. Operable Unit #1 consists of overburden soils and overburden and upper bedrock groundwater. The selected remedy is removal of above grade structures and contaminated soil source areas, installation of a cover system, and ground water control and treatment, estimated to cost between approximately $11 million and $14 million, which would be shared among the PRPs. The Company has not determined what portion of the costs associated with the remedial program it would be obligated to bear and the Company cannot predict with any certainty the outcome of this matter or range of potential loss. The Company has joined a PRP group (the PRP Group) and has executed a Joint Defense Agreement with the group members. In August 2008, the Company and over 100 PRPs entered into a Consent Order with the NYSDEC for additional site investigation directed toward characterization of the Site to better define the scope of the remedial project. The Company contributed monies to the PRP Group to help fund the work required under the Consent Order. The additional site investigation required under the Consent Order was initiated in 2008 and completed in the spring of 2009. A final report of the site investigation was submitted to NYSDEC in October 2009. By letter 46 Table of Contents dated December 31, 2009, NYSDEC disapproved the report. The bases for disapproval include concerns regarding proposed alternate soil cleanup objectives, questions regarding soil treatability studies and questions regarding ground water contamination. PRP Group representatives met several times with NYSDEC regarding revising the soil cleanup objectives set forth in the Record of Decision to be consistent with recently revised regulations. NYSDEC does not agree that the revised regulation applies to this site but requested additional information to support the PRP Groups position. The PRP Groups consultant did additional cost-benefit analyses and further soil sampling. The results were provided to NYSDEC but they remain unwilling to revise the soil standards. Additionally, NYSDEC indicated that because the site is a former RCRA facility, soil excavated at the site would be deemed hazardous waste and would require offsite disposal. Conestoga Rovers Associates, the PRP Groups consultant, estimates the soil remedy cost would increase from about $3.2 million to $4.9 to $6.1 million if all excavated soil had to be disposed offsite. Also, PRP Group Representatives met with the Niagara Falls Water Board (NFWB) regarding continued use of the NFWBs sewers and wastewater treatment plant to collect and treat contaminated ground water from the site. This would provide considerable cost savings over having to install a separate ground water collection and treatment system. The Board was receptive to the PRP Groups proposal and work is progressing on a draft permit. In addition, the adjacent landowner has expressed interest in acquiring the site for expansion of its business. By letter dated July 3, 2007, the Company received an NOV from the KYDEP alleging that the Company has violated the KYDEPs hazardous waste management regulations in connection with the Companys hazardous waste spent activated carbon regeneration facility located at the Big Sandy Plant in Catlettsburg, Kentucky. The NOV alleges that the Company has failed to correct deficiencies identified by the KYDEP in the Companys Part B hazardous waste management facility permit application and related documents and directed the Company to submit a complete and accurate Part B application and related documents and to respond to the KYDEPs comments which were appended to the NOV. The Company submitted a response to the NOV and the KYDEPs comments in December 2007 by providing a complete revised permit application. The KYDEP has not indicated whether or not it will take formal enforcement action, and has not specified a monetary amount of civil penalties it might pursue in any such action, if any. The KYDEP can also deny the Part B operating permit. On October 18, 2007, the Company received an NOV from the EPA related to this permit application and submitted a revised application to both the KYDEP and the EPA within the mandated timeframe. The EPA has not indicated whether or not it will take formal enforcement action, and has not specified a monetary amount of civil penalties it might pursue in any such action. The Company met with the KYDEP on July 27, 2009 concerning the permit, and the KYDEP indicated that it, and Region 4 of the EPA, would like to see specific additional information or clarifications in the permit application. Accordingly, the Company submitted a new application on October 15, 2009. The KYDEP indicated that it had no intention to deny the permit as long as the Company worked with the state to resolve issues. The Region 4 of the EPA has not indicated any stance on the permit and can deny the application. At this time the Company cannot predict with any certainty the outcome of this matter or range of loss, if any. 47 Table of Contents The Company is also subject to various environmental health and safety laws and regulations at its facilities in Belgium, Germany, United Kingdom, China, Canada, Sweden, Denmark, Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan, and Japan. These laws and regulations address substantially the same issues as those applicable to the Company in the United States. The Company believes it is presently in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition to the matters described above, the Company is involved in various other legal proceedings, lawsuits and claims, including employment, product warranty and environmental matters of a nature considered normal to its business. It is the Companys policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the loss amount is reasonably estimable. Management believes that the ultimate liabilities, if any, resulting from such lawsuits and claims will not materially affect the consolidated financial position or liquidity of the Company, but an adverse outcome could be material to the results of operations in a particular period in which a liability is recognized. Other On March 8, 2006, the Company and another U.S. producer (the Petitioners) of activated carbon formally requested that the United States Department of Commerce investigate unfair pricing of certain activated carbon imported from the Peoples Republic of China. The Commerce Department investigated imports of activated carbon from China that is thermally activated using a combination of heat, steam and/or carbon dioxide. Certain types of activated carbon from China, most notably chemically-activated carbon, were not investigated. On March 2, 2007, the Commerce Department published its final determination (subsequently amended) that all of the subject merchandise from China was being unfairly priced, or dumped, and thus that special additional duties should be imposed to offset the amount of the unfair pricing. The resultant tariff rates ranged from 61.95% ad valorem (i.e., of the entered value of the goods) to 228.11% ad valorem. A formal order imposing these tariffs was published on April 27, 2007. All imports from China remain subject to the order and antidumping tariffs. Importers of subject activated carbon from China are required to make cash deposits of estimated antidumping tariffs at the time the goods are entered into the United States customs territory. Deposits of tariffs are subject to future revision based on retrospective reviews conducted by the Commerce Department. The Company is both a domestic producer and a large U.S. importer (from its wholly-owned subsidiary Calgon Carbon (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.) of the activated carbon that is subject to this proceeding. As such, the Companys involvement in the Commerce Departments proceedings is both as a domestic producer (a petitioner) and as a foreign exporter (a respondent). As one of two U.S. producers involved as petitioners in the case, the Company is actively involved in ensuring the Commerce Department obtains the most accurate information from the foreign producers and exporters involved in the review, in order to calculate the most accurate results and margins of dumping for the sales at issue. As an importer of activated carbon from China and in light of the successful antidumping tariff case, the Company was required to pay deposits of estimated antidumping tariffs at the rate of 84.45% ad valorem to U.S. 48 Table of Contents Customs and Border Protection (Customs) on entries made on or after October 11, 2006 through March 1, 2007. From March 2, 2007 through March 29, 2007 the antidumping rate was 78.89%. From March 30, 2007 through April 8, 2007 the antidumping duty rate was 69.54%. Because of limits on the governments legal authority to impose provisional tariffs prior to issuance of a final determination, entries made between April 9, 2007 and April 18, 2007 were not subject to tariffs. For the period April 19, 2007 through November 9, 2009, deposits have been paid at 69.54%. The Companys role as an importer that is required to pay tariffs results in a contingent liability related to the final amount of tariffs that it will ultimately have to pay. The Company has made deposits of estimated tariffs in two ways. First, estimated tariffs on entries in the period from October 11, 2006 through April 8, 2007 were covered by a bond. The total amount of tariffs that can be paid on entries in this period is capped as a matter of law, though the Company may receive a refund with interest of any difference due to a reduction in the actual margin of dumping found in the first review. The Companys estimated liability for tariffs during this period of $0.2 million is reflected in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2010. Second, the Company has been required to post cash deposits of estimated tariffs owed on entries of subject merchandise since April 19, 2007. The final amount of tariffs owed on these entries may change, and can either increase or decrease depending on the final results of relevant administrative inquiries. This process is further described below. The amount of estimated antidumping tariffs payable on goods imported into the United States is subject to review and retroactive adjustment based on the actual amount of dumping that is found. To do this, the Commerce Department conducts periodic reviews of sales made to the first unaffiliated U.S. customer, typically over the prior 12 month period. These reviews will be possible for at least five years, and can result in changes to the antidumping tariff rate (either increasing or reducing the rate) applicable to any given foreign exporter. Revision of tariff rates has two effects. First, it will alter the actual amount of tariffs that Customs will seek to collect for the period reviewed, by either increasing or decreasing the amount to reflect the actual amount of dumping that was found. If the actual amount of tariffs owed increases, the government will require payment of the difference plus interest. Conversely, if the tariff rate decreases, any difference is refunded with interest. Second, the revised rate becomes the cash deposit rate applied to future entries, and can either increase or decrease the amount of deposits an importer will be required to pay. On November 10, 2009, the Commerce Department announced the results of its review of the tariff period beginning October 11, 2006 through March 31, 2008 (period of review (POR) I). Based on the POR I results, the Companys ongoing tariff deposit rate was adjusted from 69.54% to 14.51% (as adjusted by .07% for certain ministerial errors and published in the Federal Register on December 17, 2009) for entries made subsequent to the announcement. In addition, the Companys assessment rate for POR I was determined to have been too high and, accordingly, the Company reduced its recorded liability for unpaid deposits in POR I and recorded a receivable of $1.6 million reflecting expected refunds for tariff deposits made during POR I as a result of the announced decrease in the POR I tariff assessment rate. Note that the Petitioners have appealed to the U.S. Court of International Trade the Commerce Departments POR I results challenging, among other things, the selection of 49 Table of Contents certain surrogate values and financial information which in-part caused the reduction in the tariff rate. Other appeals were also filed by Chinese respondents seeking changes to the calculations that either do not relate to the Companys tariff rate or would, if applied to the Company, lower its tariff rate. There is no deadline for a final decision regarding these appeals but such appeals typically take at least a year to resolve. Liquidation of the Companys entries for the POR I review period is judicially enjoined for the duration of the appeal. As such, the Company will not have final settlement of the amounts it may owe or receive as a result of the final POR I tariff rates until the aforementioned appeals are resolved. On April 1, 2009, the Commerce Department published a formal notice allowing parties to request a second annual administrative review of the antidumping tariff order covering the period April 1, 2008 through March 31, 2009 (POR II). Requests for review were due no later than April 30, 2009. The Company, in its capacity as a U.S. producer and separately as a Chinese exporter, elected not to participate in this administrative review. By not participating in the review, the Companys tariff deposits made during POR II are final and not subject to further adjustment. For POR I, the Company estimates that a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the final tariff rate compared to the announced rate on November 10, 2009 would result in an additional payment or refund of approximately $0.1 million. As noted above, the Companys tariff deposits made during POR II are fixed and not subject to change. For the period April 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010 (POR III), a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the final tariff rate compared to the announced rates in effect for the period would result in an additional payment or refund of $0.1 million based on deposits made during this period. The contingent liability relating to tariffs paid on imports is somewhat mitigated by two factors. First and foremost, the antidumping tariff orders disciplinary effect on the market encourages the elimination of dumping through fair pricing. Separately, pursuant to the Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act of 2000 (repealed effective Feb. 8, 2006), as an affected domestic producer, the Company is eligible to apply for a distribution of a share of certain tariffs collected on entries of subject merchandise from China from October 11, 2006 to September 30, 2007. In July 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company applied for such distributions. In November 2009 and December 2008, the Company received distributions of approximately $0.8 million and $0.2 million, respectively, which reflected 59.57% of the total amounts then available. The Company anticipates receiving additional amounts in 2010 and future years related to tariffs paid for the period October 11, 2006 through September 30, 2007, although the exact amount is impossible to determine. There were no additional amounts received during the nine month period ended September 30, 2010. On April 1, 2010, the Commerce Department published a formal notice allowing parties to request a third annual administrative review of the antidumping tariff order covering the period April 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010 (POR III). Requests for review were due no later than April 30, 2010. The Company, in its capacity as a U.S. producer and separately as a Chinese exporter, elected not to participate in this administrative review. However, Albemarle Corporation has requested that the Commerce Department review the exports of Calgon Carbon Tianjin claiming standing as a wholesaler of the domestic like product. This claim by Albemarle to have such 50 Table of Contents standing was challenged by the Company in its capacity as a U.S. producer and separately as a Chinese exporter. The Commerce Department upheld Albemarles request to review the exports of Calgon Carbon Tianjin. The Company is currently assembling information and data needed to comply with the POR III review requirements. Outlook Activated Carbon and Service The Company believes activated carbon and service sales volume for the remainder of 2010 will be comparable to the third quarter and significantly higher than 2009. Sales to the Asian market are expected to increase due to the acquisition of the controlling interest in a Japanese supplier of activated carbon and related services in the first quarter of 2010. The Company believes sales growth in the United States will be driven by the general economic recovery and environmental legislation. Growth in Europe is expected to be slower, keeping pace with improvement in that regions economy. Most of the markets that the Company serves strengthened in the first nine months of 2010 due to the improved economy. Of special note was the potable water market which benefited from an increase in consumer and commercial demand, as well as a U.S. federal mandate for the prevention/removal of disinfection by-products from drinking water. Sales to the environmental air market in the U.S. increased due to state regulations requiring removal of mercury from coal-fired power plant flue gas. The Company believes that growth in these markets will continue as companies continue to comply with these environmental regulations. While the tariff on imported Chinese thermally activated carbon to the U.S. was lowered significantly in November 2009, current trends do not indicate signs of pricing pressure, and the Company expects that this will remain the case throughout the remainder of 2010. The Company completed a thorough market evaluation and assessment of pricing during the third quarter of 2010 and, as a result, instituted a global price increase effective November 1, 2010. The Company does not expect to see the impact on its financial results until sometime during the first quarter of 2011. During 2009, in addition to the April restart of the previously idled B-line at the Catlettsburg, Kentucky facility, the Company also further invested at this site in a new pulverization facility which is capable of converting 90 million pounds of feedstock to PAC. The pulverization facility commenced operation during the fourth quarter of 2009 and reduces the Companys reliance on third-party grinding. PAC is recognized today by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as the leading abatement technology for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas. The Company believes that this could become the largest U.S. market for activated carbon and has made great strides in establishing itself as a market leader. Mercury emission standards that began to take effect in more than a dozen states, primarily in 2010, are driving the current PAC market, but U.S. regulatory or congressional action will determine the national standards in the long-term. Currently, the EPA has indicated that it plans to issue proposed mercury emission standards by March 2011 that would then be finalized by November 2011. The Company currently estimates that annual demand could be as high as 165 million pounds in 2010; 220 million pounds in 2011 and 2012; and, 500 million pounds within the next ten years. In addition, more than 140 countries have indicated interest in a multi-nation mercury removal pact that could be agreed upon on as early as 2013. 51 Table of Contents The need for municipal drinking water utilities to comply with the Environmental Protection Agencys Stage 2 Disinfection By-Product (DBP) Rule is yet another growth driver for the Company. DBPs are compounds that form when natural decaying organic chemicals present in drinking water sources are disinfected with chemicals. Granular activated carbon (GAC) is recognized by the EPA as a best available control technology (BACT) for the reduction of DBPs. The EPA promulgated the Stage 2 DBP Rule in 2006, and requires water utilities to come into compliance with the rule in a phased manner between 2012 and 2014. The Company currently estimates that this regulation may increase demand for GAC by municipal water utilities in the United States by as much as 100 million pounds per year by 2015. In anticipation of the eventual improvement in the worldwide economy and to meet the increased demand for mercury removal and the DBP Rule, the Company currently plans to make significant capital expenditures in 2010 totaling $50 million to $55 million. The Company is investing in a capacity expansion of the Feluy, Belgium site as well as new reactivation facilities in China and in the northeast United States. In total, these sites will eventually increase the Companys service business capacity by 59 million pounds annually. All three sites are expected to commence operation in 2011. The Company has also re-started its Datong plant in October of 2010 to address increased market demand which is expected to continue throughout the remainder of the year and grow in 2011. In addition to these initiatives, the Company plans on increasing its presence throughout the world. In March 2010, the Company acquired the controlling interest in its current joint venture in Japan with full ownership expected in early 2011 (Refer to Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). This acquisition will increase the Companys capabilities in the worlds second largest geographical market by country for activated carbon. In Europe, the Company acquired Zwicky Denmark and Sweden, long-term distributors of the Companys activated carbon products and provider of services associated with the reactivation of activated carbon, in January 2010 (Refer to Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). This acquisition is consistent with the Companys strategic initiatives to accelerate growth in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden and to expand its service capabilities in Europe outside of the geographic markets it has traditionally served. Equipment The Companys equipment business is somewhat cyclical in nature and depends on both current regulations as well as the general health of the overall economy. U.S demand for the Companys ultraviolet light (UV) systems is expected to hold as the Company moves closer to the deadline of 2012 for affected municipalities to treat for Cryptosporidium in drinking water. Although equipment contract awards slowed during 2009, bid activity has improved in 2010. Backlog for the Equipment segment at September 30, 2010 is $39.2 million and includes the award of a major contract which is described below. 52 Table of Contents In January 2010, the Company acquired Hyde Marine, Inc., a manufacturer of systems that utilize UV technology to treat marine ballast water (Refer to Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). In 2004, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) adopted the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (BWMC) which addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water. The regulation is scheduled to be phased in globally over a ten-year or more period beginning in 2010, and industry sources estimate that it will require treatment of ballast water from more than 40,000 vessels by 2020. Hyde Marines Hyde Guardian system (Guardian), which employs stacked disk and ultraviolet light technology to filter and disinfect ballast water, offers cost, safety, and technological advantages. Guardian has received Type Approval from Lloyds Register on behalf of the U.K. Maritime and Coast Guard Agency. Type Approval confirms compliance with the BWMC. This strategic acquisition has provided the Company immediate entry into a global, legislative-driven market with major long-term growth potential. During the third quarter of 2010, Hyde Marine, Inc. was awarded a $19.8 million contract for ballast water treatment systems that should begin to have a positive impact on revenue and income in 2011. Consumer The company believes that the slowing economy contributed to decreased demand for its PreZerve products in 2009 which continued in 2010. During the third quarter of 2010, the Company also saw a decrease in its activated carbon cloth sales compared to the comparable 2009 period. The Company expects that during the fourth quarter of 2010 the sales will be at a comparable level as the similar 2009 period. Critical Accounting Policies There were no material changes to the Companys critical accounting policies from those disclosed in the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.