Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Churchill Capital Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to Churchill Sponsor LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys final prospectus for its Initial Public Offering filed with the SEC. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 20, 2018 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. The issuance of additional shares of our stock in a Business Combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B common stock resulted in the issuance of Class A shares on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B common stock; may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; could cause a change of control if a substantial number of shares of our common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the stock ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock and/or warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant indebtedness, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a Business Combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; 13 increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from June 20, 2018 (inception) through September 30, 2018 were organizational activities and those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, after our Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We expect that we will incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and for the period from June 20, 2018 (inception) through September 30, 2018, we had net income of $424,717 and $423,690, respectively, which consists of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $738,355, offset by an unrealized loss on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $48,430, operating costs of $152,582 and $153,609, respectively, and a provision for income taxes of $112,626. Liquidity and Capital Resources On September 11, 2018, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 69,000,000, which includes the full exercise by the underwriters of their over-allotment option in the amount of 9,000,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $690,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 18,300,000 Private Placement Warrants, at $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, to the Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $18,300,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $690,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $38,023,145 in Initial Public Offering related costs, including $13,800,000 of underwriting fees, $24,150,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $73,145 of other costs, which is net of a $588,000 reimbursement received from the underwriters. As of September 30, 2018, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $690,689,925 (including approximately $690,000 of interest income, net of unrealized losses) consisting of U.S. Treasury Bills with a maturity of 180 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through September 30, 2018, we did not withdraw any interest earned on the Trust Account. For the period from June 20, 2018 (inception) through September 30, 2018, cash used in operating activities was $522,842. Net income of $423,690 was impacted by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $738,355, an unrealized loss on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of $48,430 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which used $256,607 of cash. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (which interest shall net of amounts withdrawn to pay our taxes) to complete a Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete a Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of September 30, 2018, we had cash of $3,929,013 held outside the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor, or the officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds from time to time or at any time as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts, but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used to repay such loaned amounts. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. 14 We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amounts necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2018. Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $31,250 for office space, administrative and support services to the Company. We began incurring these fees on September 6, 2018 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. The Company has identified the following critical accounting policy. Common stock subject to possible redemption We account for common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at September 30, 2018, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our balance sheet. Recent accounting standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements.