Item 2 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition This discussion should be read in connection with the information contained in the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations Consolidated net sales increased by $4.1 million or 3.1% for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 versus the quarter ended March 31, 2014. Included in this change was a $6.3 million negative impact of foreign currency translation due to a stronger U.S. dollar which was primarily within the Activated Carbon and Service Segment. Net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 for the Activated Carbon and Service segment increased $5.0 million or 4.3% versus the similar 2014 period despite the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $6.1 million. 18 Table of Contents (Dollars in millions) Gross Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales Foreign Currency Impact Net Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales Potable Water market $ 7.7 $ (1.8 ) $ 5.9 Environmental Air market 5.5 (0.7 ) 4.8 Food market (1.6 ) (1.0 ) (2.6 ) Specialty Carbon market (1.5 ) (0.4 ) (1.9 ) Environmental Water market (0.3 ) (1.4 ) (1.7 ) Other 1.3 (0.8 ) 0.5 Total Activated Carbon and Service $ 11.1 $ (6.1 ) $ 5.0 The increase was principally due to higher demand in the Potable Water market in all geographic regions as a result of significant new orders for municipal drinking water treatment. The Americas Potable Water market included a large order for treatment of Disinfection Byproducts (DBPs). Also contributing to the quarter over quarter increase was higher demand in the Americas Environmental Air market as a result of customers complying with existing mercury removal regulations as well as new customers preparing to comply with the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) regulations which are effective in April 2015 (see additional discussion regarding MATS in the Outlook portion of this Item 2). Partially offsetting these increases was lower demand in the European Food market as certain large orders in 2014 did not repeat in 2015. Sales in the Americas Specialty Carbon market also declined primarily as a result of lower demand for both respirator and metal recovery products. Net sales for the Equipment segment increased $0.2 million or 2.3% in the first quarter 2015 versus the comparable 2014 period. The increase was due to higher sales of ballast water treatment systems of $1.9 million, which was partially offset by lower sales of traditional carbon adsorption equipment of $1.7 million . Foreign currency translation effects in the Equipment segment were not significant. Net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 for the Consumer segment decreased $1.2 million or 34.7% as compared to the first quarter of 2014 due to higher demand from a single customer in 2014 that did not repeat in 2015, as well as the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $0.2 million for the Consumer segment. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percentage of net sales, was 35.7% for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 compared to 33.6% for the similar 2014 period, a 2.1 percentage point increase primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Approximately $1.2 million of this improvement resulted from higher margin products sold coupled with a decline in volume of lower margin products particularly in Asia. Lower coal costs of approximately $0.5 million primarily from two long-term coal contracts and lower fuel costs of approximately $0.4 million also contributed to the increase. In addition, the favorable impact from the Companys cost improvement programs including increased carbon production volumes of 5.2% during 2015 contributed to margin improvement in all geographic regions. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased $1.7 million or 23.8% for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 versus the quarter ended March 31, 2014. The increase was primarily due to higher depreciation expense of approximately $0.9 million primarily related to the improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky facility and the addition of the North Tonawanda, New York manufacturing facility that was placed into service in the second quarter of 2014. Also contributing to the increase was accelerated depreciation expense of approximately $0.8 million related to certain assets that will be replaced later in the year as the result of new projects including the Companys SAP re-implementation project. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.0 million or 5.2% for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 versus the comparable 2014 quarter. The increase was principally due to costs related to an SAP re-implementation project which commenced in January 2014 aimed at improving functionality of the Companys enterprise resource planning (ERP) system of approximately $0.5 million and the timing of certain employee related costs of approximately $0.4 million. Research and development expenses decreased $0.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 versus the comparable 2014 quarter which included higher advanced product testing costs that did not repeat in 2015. The Company recorded a reduction to the estimate of its restructuring program of $0.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2014. The restructuring activity was all in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. 19 Table of Contents Interest income, interest expense and other expense - net were comparable for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 versus the quarter ended March 31, 2014. The income tax provision was $5.6 million and $5.1 million for the quarters ended March 31, 201 5 and 201 4 , respectively. The effective tax rate for the quarter ended March 31, 201 5 was 33.5 % compared to 34.4% for the quarter ended March 31, 201 4 . The decrease in the effective rate as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily relates to a more favorable mix of income earned in foreign tax jurisdictions whose tax rates are lower than the U.S. rate in 2015 and an increase in favorable permanent tax differences in first quarter of 2015 compared to the similar period in 2014. In the preparation of its effective tax rate, the Company uses an annualized estimate of pre-tax earnings. Throughout the year this annualized estimate may change based on actual results and annual earnings estimate revisions in various tax jurisdictions. Because the Companys permanent tax benefits are relatively constant, changes in the annualized estimate may have a significant impact on the effective tax rate in future periods. Financial Condition Working Capital and Liquidity The Company has had sufficient financial resources to meet its operating requirements and to fund capital spending, dividend payments, share repurchases and pension plans. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $8.9 million for the period ended March 31, 2015 compared to $ 10.2 million for the period ended March 31, 2014. The $ 1.3 million decrease was primarily due to a net unfavorable working capital change resulting from higher inventories and lower accounts payable and accrued liabilities, which was partially offset by improved operating results (net income plus net add-back for noncash transactions in earnings). Common stock dividends were not declared or paid during the quarter ended March 31, 2014. On February 18, 2015, the Companys Board of Directors reinstated its common stock dividend program declaring a quarterly dividend payable in the amount of $0.05 per share on March 15, 2015 to its stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 5, 2015. Common stock dividends in the amount of $2.6 million were paid during the quarter ended March 31, 2015. On May 5, 2015, the Companys Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share, payable on June 15, 2015, to shareholders of record on June 5, 2015. The Company maintains a U.S. Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) which provides for a senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Revolver) in an amount up to $225 million which expires on November 6, 2019. Availability under the Revolver is conditioned upon various customary conditions. The Credit Agreement also provides for senior unsecured delayed draw term loans (Delayed Draw Term Loans) in an aggregate amount up to $75 million which expires on November 6, 2020. Beginning January 1, 2016, quarterly repayments are required equal to 2.5% of the outstanding balance of the Delayed Draw Term Loans, with the remaining balance due on the November 6, 2020 expiration date. Total outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement increased $9.3 million from December 31, 2014. Total availability under the Credit Agreement was $191.8 million as of March 31, 2015. Certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries unconditionally guarantee all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type. The Company must comply with certain financial covenants including minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio as defined within the Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014. Calgon Carbon Japan (CCJ) maintains a Term Loan Agreement which provides for borrowings up to 1.0 billion Japanese Yen and matures on May 10, 2017. In addition, CCJ maintains a Working Capital Loan Agreement which provides for borrowings up to 1.5 billion Japanese Yen and matures on March 31, 2016. The Company is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor of CCJs obligations and the Company permitted CCJ to grant a security interest and continuing lien in certain of its assets, including inventory and accounts receivable, to secure its obligations under both loan agreements. The Company maintains an Uncommitted Revolving Loan Facility Letter (Facility Letter) in China which provides for an uncommitted line of credit totaling 5 million Renminbi or $0.8 million which matures on July 19, 2015. The Company is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor under the Facility Letter. 20 Table of Contents Refer to Note 5 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on the Companys borrowing arrangements. Share Repurchases In December 2013, the Companys Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program with a total of $150 million of purchases authorized. During the three months ended March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, the Company repurchased 80,500 and 1,013,341 shares, respectively, at an average price of $20.88 per share and $20.50 per share, respectively. As of March 31, 2015, the Company had repurchased a total of 2,158,141 shares at an average price of $20.57 per share under this program. During the period April 1, 2015 through April 27, 2015 , the Company repurchased an additional 150,700 shares at a total cost of $3.3 million. All of the above mentioned repurchases were funded from operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings and the shares are initially held as treasury stock. Subsequent to these repurchases, the Companys remaining authorization to repurchase its common stock is approximately $102.3 million. Contractual Obligations The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. As of March 31, 201 5 , there have been no material changes in the payment terms of these obligations since December 31, 201 4 . The Company currently expects that cash from annual operating activities plus cash balances and available external financing will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months. The cash needs of each of the Companys reporting segments are principally covered by the segments operating cash flow on a standalone basis. Any additional needs will be funded by cash on hand or borrowings under the Companys Credit Facility, Japanese Working Capital Loan, or other credit facilities. Specifically, the Equipment and Consumer segments historically have not required extensive capital expenditures; therefore, the Company believes that cash on hand and borrowings will adequately support each of the segments cash needs. Capital Expenditures and Investments Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment totaled $16.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 201 5 compared to expenditures of $8.6 million compared for the same period in 201 4 . The expenditures for the period ended March 31, 201 5 were primarily for improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky manufacturing facility, along with expenditures related to the Companys new headquarters facility, which includes the research and development innovation center of approximately $3.6 million and a SAP re-implementation project of approximately $1.7 million. The expenditures for the period ended March 31, 2014 were primarily for improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky and Pearlington, Mississippi manufacturing facilities. Capital expenditures for 201 5 are currently projected to be approximately $70.0 to $75.0 million. The aforementioned expenditures are expected to be funded by operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings. The Company received proceeds related to government grants $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014. Refer to Note 14 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for further details. Cash and cash equivalents include $37.8 million and $ 41.7 million held by the Companys foreign subsidiaries at March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , respectively. Generally, cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries are not readily available for use in the United States without adverse tax consequences. The Companys principal sources of liquidity are its cash flows from its operating activities or borrowings directly from its lines of credit. The Company does not believe the level of its non-U.S. cash position will have an adverse effect on working capital needs, planned growth, repayment of maturing debt, or benefit plan funding. Contingencies The Company is involved in various legal proceedings, lawsuits and claims, including employment, product warranty and environmental matters of a nature considered normal to its business. It is the Companys policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the loss amount is reasonably estimable. Refer to Note 11 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on recently issued accounting guidance. 21 Table of Contents Outlook Activated Carbon and Service The Company continues to estimate that for the period 2012 through 2017, the world-wide activated carbon market will increase at a compound annual growth rate of 10.8%. The impacts of environmental regulations are expected to lead to significant volume increases beginning in 2015, as discussed below. The Companys activated carbon and service sales volume for first quarter of 2015 increased 11.1% over the comparable period in 2014. In order to meet the expected increase in activated carbon demand, the Company completed the expansion of its Pearl River facility adding approximately 8 million pounds of granular activated carbon production per year. In addition, a similar project to expand one of the Companys three virgin production lines at its Big Sandy facility commenced in the third quarter of 2014. Other sources of incremental capacity include increased utilization of the Companys activated carbon reactivation capacity in all three of its regions (Americas, Europe and Asia); operational improvements at the Companys virgin carbon manufacturing facilities due to new capital investments; a third-party plant efficiency study completed in the first half of 2014; an ongoing product rationalization project that has provided a reduction in SKUs of 45%; and, the sale of outsourced carbons. Finally, the Company continues to evaluate other opportunities for virgin activated carbon expansion including a significant expansion of one of the Companys existing facilities. Impediments to near-term growth could include an economic slowdown in any or all of the regions served and, in the future, could also include impacts from delays in environmental regulations further discussed below. The Company believes that fair pricing for activated carbon in the United States of America is being achieved via the application of a tariff imposed on Chinese steam activated carbon. Under the anti-dumping rules, importers of steam activated carbon from China are potentially required to pay anti-dumping duties. The United States Department of Commerce (Commerce Department) conducts reviews in order to determine whether changes (increases or decreases) should be made to the anti-dumping tariff rate applicable to any foreign exporter. These retrospective reviews occur annually while the anti-dumping duty order (the order) is in effect (the current order is scheduled to expire in March 2017). The Companys most recent price increase was announced in February 2013. Because of existing contracts, outstanding bids and other factors, it typically takes approximately 12 months for the full effect of a price increase to be realized. Raw material costs for production in 2015 are expected to decline compared to 2014. The most significant raw material cost is coal. The quantity of coal consumed varies based on the overall production levels achieved as well as the mix of products manufactured during the year. The Company expects its total cost of coal to decrease in 2015 primarily as a result of lower pricing achieved from two five-year coal contracts signed in December 2013. These contracts represent approximately 71% of the Companys current annual coal requirements. As of March 31, 2015, the Company has approximately 86% of its 2015 anticipated coal requirements under contract or in inventory. The Company continues to make research and development expenditures primarily related to its advanced FLUEPAC products. These products were introduced to significantly reduce the amount of powdered activated carbon (PAC) required for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas when compared to competing products. PAC is recognized today by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as the leading abatement technology for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas. The current U.S. driver of sales to coal-fired power plants is state regulations. However, on December 21, 2011, the U.S. EPA issued the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) requiring mercury and other substances to be removed from the flue gas of coal-fired power plants. The final MATS regulation was published in the Federal Register on February 16, 2012 and became effective on April 16, 2012. Compliance with MATS will generally be required three years from the effective date (April 2015). Exceptions for newly installed equipment and/or reliability critical paths could potentially delay implementation for applicable power plants up to an additional two years. As of December 31, 2014, the Company believes that approximately 20% of the units have been granted a one-year extension by at least 20 different states. In March 2015, the Supreme Court of the United States held oral argument on a case challenging the MATS rule. The Company cannot predict the ruling of the U.S. Supreme Court which is expected to be rendered in the second quarter of 2015. There are also mercury removal regulations for the flue gas of coal-fired power plants in effect for certain Canadian provinces. In addition to MATS, the EPA has promulgated mercury removal regulations related to industrial boilers and cement manufacturers. Compliance dates for cement manufacturers and industrial boilers are currently September 9, 2015 and January 31, 2016, respectively. The Company believes that mercury removal could become the largest U.S. market for activated carbon and has made great strides in establishing itself as a market leader. Based on standard carbon products, the Company estimates that the current annual demand for mercury removal in North America is 120 million to 150 million pounds and may grow to as much as 350 million to 550 million pounds by 2016. The Companys advanced products for mercury removal which have carbon usage rates of 50% to 70% less than alternative products, are important to its ongoing success in this market. Market acceptance of the Companys advanced 22 Table of Contents FLUEPAC products is growing. Bidding activity with electric utilities has been active and is resulting in the receipt of significant, new orders for the Companys FLUEPAC products. The Company currently believes approximately one-third of this market is represented by the 19 states and certain Canadian provinces that require mercury removal. The Company estimates that those utilities planning to comply with the April 2015 MATS regulation will comprise at least another one-third of the eventual mercury removal market (subject to the pending Supreme Court ruling noted above) with the remaining electric utilities complying in April 2016. In first quarter and full year of 2014, the Companys sales into this market totaled approximately $6.7 million and $28.7 million, respectively, which is estimated to be approximately a 30% share. During the first quarter of 2015, the Company reported sales of $11.6 million, an increase of approximately 72%. The Companys expectation is that its ongoing share of this market will be equal to, or greater than, its estimated current share of 30%. Compliance with other proposed emissions regulations such as the EPAs Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and Carbon Pollution Standards (CPS) could significantly impact the amount of carbon utilized by electric utilities for compliance with MATS. In September 2013, the EPA released a Carbon Pollution Standards proposal for new electric generating units. The standards for new units are likely to have little impact on activated carbon usage in the future; however, the EPA proposed CPS for existing electric generating units released in June of 2014. The Company continues to evaluate the rule, but believes that the CPS for existing units could have a negative impact on future activated carbon demand for electric generators, should generators opt to retire or repower their coal-fired electric generation units. In January of 2015, the EPA announced a delay in the release of the final new and existing source CPS until the middle of 2015. The Company believes the majority of U.S. electric utilities are awaiting further resolution of MATS, the final Carbon Pollution Standards for existing electric generating units, and a final determination as it relates to CSAPR before implementing an integrated treatment approach to more broadly address how to invest in pollution control equipment across their power plant fleet. In addition, long-term lower natural gas costs will likely also impact this market as electric generation facilities could shift production from coal to natural gas. It should also be noted that wide-spread adoption of the Companys advanced mercury removal products could also reduce the pounds of activated carbon needed for mercury removal. Adverse market conditions coupled with a strong adoption of the Companys advanced mercury removal carbons, could significantly reduce the eventual market volume opportunity to a level below the low end of aforementioned forecasted demand of 350 million to 550 million pounds of standard activated carbon. However, in that case, the Company could expect to increase its share of this market. In addition to mercury regulations in North America, China has announced plans for mercury removal from its coal-fired power plants. The plans, as announced, stipulate levels of mercury removal that would not likely result in large activated carbon sales. However, trials will purportedly be conducted to establish removal requirements. The need for municipal drinking water utilities to comply with the EPAs Stage 2 Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproducts Rule (the DBP Rule) is another growth driver for the Company. Disinfection Byproducts (DBPs) are compounds that form when natural occurring organic materials in drinking water sources react with the chemicals used to disinfect the water. Granular activated carbon (GAC) is recognized by the EPA as a best available control technology (BACT) for the reduction of DBPs. The EPA promulgated the DBP Rule in 2006, and requires water utilities to be in compliance with the rule in a phased manner between 2012 and 2015. Utilities can request delays up to 24 months if necessary to secure capital funding to install compliance technology. The Company estimates that through the end of 2014, over 65 million pounds of GAC have been installed by municipal water utilities across the United States for compliance with this regulation, a figure that is expected to grow to over 70 million by the end of 2015. This carbon also represents a significant opportunity for repeat sales via the Companys custom reactivation service business. Many of the utilities that have installed GAC for DBP compliance have converted to reactivated carbon and a growing number have entered into multi-year contracts with the Company for ongoing reactivation services. The Companys custom reactivation facilities in Arizona, California, New York, and Ohio have all received certification from the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) International. This certification verifies that potable custom reactivated carbon is safe for reuse in municipal drinking water treatment applications. In Europe, the Company was awarded a multi-year contract by a large water provider in the United Kingdom (UK). The Company will supply virgin carbon and reactivation services for up to a ten year period and plans to restart and upgrade its Tipton plant in the UK for that purpose. The planned upgrades are estimated to require $9.5 million of capital expenditures and will be completed in stages. This plant, having a current estimated annual capacity of approximately 11 million pounds, has begun undergoing equipment modifications and a significant capacity expansion. The plant should return to operation with the additional capacity and planned upgrades completed in late 2015. China also announced that it will commit billions of dollars to water and wastewater improvements. Equipment The Companys equipment business is somewhat cyclical in nature and depends on both regulations and the general health of the overall economy. The Company believes that U.S. demand for its ultraviolet light (UV) systems will continue, as smaller 23 Table of Contents municipalities must meet implementation deadlines through 2015 for EPA regulations to treat for Cryptosporidium in drinking water. UV remains the technology of choice for controlling Cryptosporidium and Giardia under the U.S. EPA LT2 regulations. The Company also believes that demand for its ballast water treatment systems will grow. The U.S. Coast Guard issued its ballast water treatment rule on March 23, 2012 (Coast Guard Rule). The Coast Guard Rule addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water and ultimately requires U.S. Type Approval for treatment systems used in U.S. waters. Ships wishing to release ballast water into U.S. waters must operate an acceptable treatment system on all ships built after December 1, 2013; on medium ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2014; and, on small and large ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2016. Ship operators can seek an extension of the fore mentioned compliance dates from the Coast Guard by citing the lack of availability of U.S. Type Approved ballast water treatment systems. As of January 21, 2015, 339 such extensions have been granted to operators that otherwise would have been required to purchase ballast water treatment equipment under the Rule. The granting of these extensions despite the existence of acceptable but not yet U.S. Type Approved systems (like the Hyde GUARDIAN) has had a dampening effect on the market. The Coast Guard Rules discharge limits match the numerical limits proposed by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) but the Coast Guard is more prescriptive as to testing methodology than is the IMO. The only test method currently referenced in the Coast Guard Rule cannot measure the effectiveness of UV based systems like the Companys Hyde GUARDIAN and the other best selling systems. The Coast Guard in conjunction with the EPA is considering alternate test methods used by other nations to approve UV based ballast water treatment systems. Hyde Marine and other ballast water treatment system manufacturers whose technology includes the use of ultraviolet light, routinely used in the disinfection of drinking water, are working with the Coast Guard and the EPA in an effort to clarify the criteria in the Coast Guard Rule. There are three Independent Laboratories (IL) approved by the Coast Guard to work with manufacturers in the Type Approval process: NSF International (NSF), located in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Det Norske Veritas (DNV) AS, located in Hovik, Norway, and Korean Register of Shipping, located in Busan, Korea. The ILs have begun working with manufacturers on testing for US Type Approval a process that is expected to take from one to three years. In the interim, ships may discharge ballast water in U.S. ports for a period of five years if they operate a ballast water treatment system that has been designated as an Alternate Management System (AMS) by the Coast Guard. To qualify for this status, the equipment supplier must possess an international Type Approval, and must demonstrate to the Coast Guard that the equipment performs at least as well as ballast water exchange. The Company was granted AMS status for its Hyde GUARDIAN ballast water treatment system effective April 15, 2013. In 2004, the IMO adopted the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (BWMC) which, like the Coast Guard Rule, addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water. The regulations requiring ballast water treatment will become effective one year after 30 countries representing 35% of the worlds shipping tonnage ratify the BWMC. The BWMC has now been signed by 44 countries representing 32.86% of the worlds current shipping tonnage. The BWMC is expected to be phased in over a ten-year period and, coupled with the Coast Guard Rule, will require an estimated 64,000 vessels to install ballast water treatment systems. The Company believes that the total ballast water treatment market will approximate $28 billion after ratification of the BWMC. The Hyde GUARDIAN system, which employs filtration and ultraviolet light technology to filter and disinfect ballast water, offers cost, safety, and technological advantages. Hyde GUARDIAN has received Type Approval from Lloyds Register on behalf of the U.K. Maritime and Coast Guard Agency which confirms compliance with the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention. Hyde GUARDIAN has also received Class Society Type Approval from Lloyds Register (LR), American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), and Russian Maritime Registry of Shipping (RS). The strategic acquisition of Hyde Marine provided the Company immediate entry into a global, regulation driven market with major long-term growth potential. To date, most of the Hyde GUARDIAN systems sold have been for new ship builds but long term, most of Hydes sales will be for systems retrofitted into existing ships. During 2012, 2013 and 2014, the number of new ship builds was significantly lower than in prior years and the retrofit market for ballast water equipment has been slow to ramp up owing to the delay in ratification of the IMO BWMC and the fore mentioned Coast Guard extensions. This has suppressed the number of Hyde GUARDIAN orders received. During the first quarter of 2015, the Company sold 20 ballast water treatment systems. During 2014, 2013, 2012, and 2011, the Company sold 113, 64, 68 and 82 ballast water treatment systems, respectively. Subsequent to the January 2010 acquisition of Hyde Marine, the Company has sold over 400 systems valued at approximately $85 million. Backlog for the Equipment segment as of March 31, 2015 was $18.3 million, while backlog as of December 31, 2014 was $19.8 million. Consumer Sales of activated carbon cloth decreased $1.2 million or 34.7% in 2015 as compared to the first quarter of 2014. 24 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies There were no material changes to the Companys critical accounting policies as disclosed in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 201 4 .