Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our historical financial statements and related notes included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 and the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Certain statements in this section are forward-looking statements as described in the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements section of this quarterly report. A detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is outlined under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this quarterly report. Overview We are a leading global provider of transformative intelligence. We offer enriched data, insights & analytics, workflow solutions and expert services in the areas of Academia & Government (A&G), Intellectual Property (IP) and Life Sciences & Healthcare (LS&H), which form the basis of our reportable segment structure. This structure allows us to provide substantial scale for our vertical market customers while still leveraging our shared services to operate efficiently across horizontal workflows and functions. Within each of our three segments, we provide the following information, solution, and service capabilities: Enriched data - comprehensive, curated content collections. Insights and analytics - on-demand predictive analytics capabilities to inform decision-making. Workflow solutions - automated workflow, including SaaS, to enable decisions and manage resources. Expert services - business-critical regulatory and compliance activities support. Key Performance Indicators We regularly monitor the following key performance indicators to evaluate our business and trends, measure our performance, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. Organic revenue growth, Annualized contract value, Annual renewal rates, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, and Free cash flow are key performance indicators because they are a basis upon which management assesses our performance and we believe they reflect the underlying trends and indicators of our business by allowing management to focus on the most meaningful indicators of our continuous operational performance. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, and Free cash flow are financial measures that are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP). Although we believe these measures may be useful to investors for the same reasons described above, these measures are not a substitute for GAAP financial measures or disclosures. Reconciliations of our non-GAAP measures to the corresponding most closely related measures calculated in accordance with GAAP are provided further below. Organic revenue growth We review year-over-year organic revenue growth in our segments as a key measure of our success in addressing customer needs. We also review year-over-year organic revenue growth by transaction type to help us identify and address broad changes in product mix, and by geography to help us identify and address changes and revenue trends by region. We measure organic revenue growth excluding acquisitions, disposals, and foreign currency impacts. We define these components as follows: Organic: Revenue generated from pricing, up-selling, securing new customers, sales of new or enhanced product offerings, and any other revenue change drivers except for changes from acquisitions, disposals, and foreign currency. Acquisitions: Revenue generated from acquired products and services from the date of acquisition to the first anniversary date of that acquisition. Disposals: Revenue generated in the prior year comparative period from product lines, services, and/or businesses divested from the date of the sale in the current period presented or included within a disposal group. Foreign Currency (FX): The difference between current revenue at current exchange rates and current revenue at the corresponding prior period exchange rates. 21 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Annualized contract value Annualized contract value (ACV), at a given point in time, represents the annualized value for the next 12 months of subscription-based license agreements with our customers, assuming that all expiring license agreements during that period are renewed at their current price level. The renewal period for our subscriptions generally starts 90 days before the end of the current subscription period. Our calculation of ACV includes the impact of downgrades, upgrades, price increases, and cancellations during the reporting period. We monitor ACV because it represents a leading indicator of the potential subscription revenues that may be generated from our existing customer base over the upcoming 12-month period. Measurement of subscription revenues as a key operating metric is particularly relevant because a majority of our revenues are generated from subscription-based license agreements. Actual subscription revenues that we recognize during any 12-month period are likely to differ from ACV at the beginning of that period, sometimes significantly. This may occur for various reasons, including subsequent changes in annual renewal rates, impacts of price increases (or decreases), cancellations, upgrades and downgrades, and acquisitions and divestitures. We calculate and monitor ACV for each of our segments and use the metric as part of our evaluation of our business and trends. Our ACV was $1,583.3 and $1,555.2 as of March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, which corresponds to an increase of 1.8%. The increase in ACV was primarily due to the impact of price increases. Annual renewal rate Our revenues are primarily subscription based, which leads to high revenue predictability. Our ability to retain existing subscription customers is a key performance indicator that helps explain the evolution of our historical results and is a leading indicator of our revenues and cash flows for the subsequent reporting period. Annual renewal rate is the metric we use to determine renewal levels by existing customers across our segments, and is a leading indicator of renewal trends, which impact the evolution of our ACV and results of operations. We calculate the annual renewal rate for a given period by dividing (a) the annualized dollar value of existing subscription product license agreements that are renewed during that period, including the value of any product downgrades, by (b) the annualized dollar value of existing subscription product license agreements that come up for renewal in that period. Open renewals, which we define as existing subscription product license agreements that come up for renewal but are neither renewed nor canceled by customers during the applicable reporting period, are excluded from both the numerator and denominator of the calculation. We calculate the annual renewal rate to reflect the impact of product downgrades but not the impact of product upgrades upon renewal, because upgrades reflect the purchase of additional services. The impact of upgrades, new subscriptions, and product price increases is reflected in ACV, but not in annual renewal rates. Our annual renewal rate was 93% and 93% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted EBITDA is presented because it is a basis upon which our management assesses our performance, and we believe it is useful for investors to understand the underlying trends of our operations. Adjusted EBITDA represents Net income (loss) before the Provision (benefit) for income taxes, Depreciation and amortization, and Interest expense, net, adjusted to exclude acquisition and/or disposal-related transaction costs, share-based compensation, mandatory convertible preferred share dividend expense, unrealized foreign currency gains/losses, restructuring expenses, non-operating income and/or expense, the impact of certain non-cash fair value adjustments on financial instruments, legal settlements, impairments, and other items that are included in Net income (loss) for the period that we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by Revenues. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by any of the adjusted items, or that our projections and estimates will be realized in their entirety or at all. In addition, because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of liquidity or discretionary cash available to us to fund our cash needs, including investing in the growth of our business and meeting our obligations. For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin to Net income (loss), refer to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin (non-GAAP measures) below. 22 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Free cash flow We use Free cash flow in our operational and financial decision-making and believe it is useful to investors because similar measures are frequently used by securities analysts, investors, ratings agencies, and other interested parties to measure the ability of a company to service its debt. Our presentation of Free cash flow should not be construed as a measure of liquidity or discretionary cash available to us to fund our cash needs, including investing in the growth of our business and meeting our obligations. We define Free cash flow as Net cash provided by operating activities less Capital expenditures. For further discussion related to Free cash flow, including a reconciliation to Net cash provided by operating activities, refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Flows below. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Revenues $ 621.2 $ 629.1 (1)% Operating expenses: Cost of revenues 217.8 229.7 (5)% Selling, general and administrative costs 191.9 194.8 (1)% Depreciation and amortization 179.4 172.6 4% Restructuring 9.5 9.4 1% Other operating expense (income), net 17.6 (32.0) N/M Total operating expenses 616.2 574.5 Income (loss) from operations 5.0 54.6 Fair value adjustment of warrants (5.2) 1.1 N/M Interest expense, net 70.2 73.6 (5)% Income (loss) before income tax (60.0) (20.1) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 15.0 (63.6) N/M Net income (loss) (75.0) 43.5 Dividends on preferred shares 18.8 18.8 % Net income (loss) attributable to ordinary shares $ (93.8) $ 24.7 N/M - Represents a change approximately equal or in excess of 100% or not meaningful. There were no material changes to the business or other factors having a significant impact on the comparability of our results of operations between the periods presented. Revenues The tables below present the changes in revenue by transaction type, segment, and geography, as well as the components driving the changes between periods. Revenues by transaction type Three Months Ended March 31, Change % of Change 2024 2023 $ % Acquisitions Disposals FX Organic Subscription revenues $ 403.1 $ 393.2 $ 9.9 2.5 % 0.1 % % % 2.4 % Re-occurring revenues 102.5 107.7 (5.2) (4.8) % % % 0.3 % (5.1) % Transactional and other revenues 115.6 128.2 (12.6) (9.8) % 0.1 % 0.9 % 0.6 % (11.4) % Revenues $ 621.2 $ 629.1 $ (7.9) (1.3) % % 0.2 % 0.2 % (1.7) % Subscription revenues increased primarily due to organic growth driven by price increases. Re-occurring revenues decreased due to lower IP patent renewal volumes. Transactional and other revenues decreased primarily due to lower A&G volumes and LS&H real world data sales. 23 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Revenues by segment Three Months Ended March 31, Change % of Change 2024 2023 $ % Acquisitions Disposals FX Organic Academia & Government $ 317.7 $ 314.7 $ 3.0 1.0 % % % 0.4 % 0.6 % Intellectual Property 200.9 209.1 (8.2) (3.9) % % 0.5 % 0.1 % (4.5) % Life Sciences & Healthcare 102.6 105.3 (2.7) (2.6) % 0.3 % % (0.1) % (2.8) % Revenues $ 621.2 $ 629.1 $ (7.9) (1.3) % % 0.2 % 0.2 % (1.7) % A&G segment revenues increased from organic growth, primarily due to subscription growth driven by price increases, partially offset by a decline in transactional volumes. IP segment revenues decreased primarily due to lower patent renewal volumes. LS&H segment revenues decreased primarily due to lower transactional real world data sales. Revenues by geography Three Months Ended March 31, Change % of Change 2024 2023 $ % Acquisitions Disposals FX Organic Americas $ 330.3 $ 339.5 $ (9.2) (2.7) % 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.1 % (3.0) % Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) 168.5 167.0 1.5 0.9 % % 0.2 % 1.5 % (0.8) % Asia Pacific (APAC) 122.4 122.6 (0.2) (0.2) % % 0.3 % (1.2) % 0.7 % Revenues $ 621.2 $ 629.1 $ (7.9) (1.3) % % 0.2 % 0.2 % (1.7) % Americas revenues decreased primarily due to the organic decline driven by lower IP re-occurring patent renewal volumes and declines in A&G transactional volumes and LS&H real world data transactional sales. The decline in EMEA organic revenue growth was primarily due to lower IP re-occurring patent renewal volumes and A&G transactional volumes. APAC organic revenue growth increased primarily due to A&G subscription growth, partially offset by lower A&G transactional sales. Cost of revenues Cost of revenues consists of costs related to the production, servicing, and maintenance of our products and are composed primarily of related personnel costs, data center services and licensing costs, and costs to acquire or produce content, including royalty fees. The decrease of 5.2% was primarily driven by a reduction in share-based compensation expense. As a percentage of revenues, Cost of revenues decreased by 1.4% from the prior year period. Selling, general and administrative costs Selling, general and administrative costs (SG&A) include nearly all business costs not directly attributable to the production, servicing, and maintenance of our products and are composed primarily of related personnel costs, third-party professional services fees, facility costs like rent and utilities, technology costs associated with our corporate infrastructure, and transaction expenses associated with acquisitions, divestitures, and capital market activities including advisory, legal, and other professional and consulting costs. The decrease of 1.5% was primarily driven by a reduction in share-based compensation expense. As a percentage of revenues, SG&A costs were largely unchanged from the prior year period. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation expense relates to our fixed assets, including mainly computer hardware and leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures. Amortization expense relates to our definite-lived intangible assets, including mainly technology and content, customer relationships, internally generated computer software, and trade names. The increase of 3.9% was primarily driven by increased investment in internally developed software and content assets compared to the prior year period. 24 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Restructuring Restructuring and other impairments charges were largely unchanged from the prior year. First quarter 2024 charges were primarily associated with the Segment Optimization Program, which began in the second quarter of 2023 and is expected to continue through the end of 2024. First quarter 2023 charges were primarily associated with the ProQuest Acquisition Integration Program, which was substantively completed in 2023. For further information regarding each of our restructuring initiatives and impairment impacts, see Note 9 - Restructuring and Other Impairments included in Part I, Item 1 of this quarterly report. Other operating expense (income), net The change of $49.6 compared to Other operating expense (income), net of $(32.0) in the prior year period was driven by a $(49.4) gain on legal settlement in the prior year, the net impact of foreign exchange gains and losses related to the remeasurement of balances, with the largest impacts derived from transactions denominated in GBP, and a $15.8 loss on divestiture in the current year. For further information, see Note 10 - Other Operating Expense (Income), Net included in Part I, Item 1 of this quarterly report. Fair value adjustment of warrants The adjustment in fair value, resulting in a gain in the current and comparative year, was driven primarily by decreases in our share price and the remaining exercise period, both of which reduce the warrant value in the option valuation model. Interest expense, net The decrease of 4.6% was driven by lower outstanding borrowings from debt prepayments. Provision (benefit) for income taxes The overall increase in tax expense is primarily due to the $70.4 tax benefit, recorded in the prior year, relating to the settlement of an open tax dispute and due to the change in the mix of taxing jurisdictions in which pre-tax profits and losses were recognized. The current quarter effective tax rate may not be indicative of our effective tax rates for future periods. In December 2021, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) issued model rules for a new global minimum tax framework under its Pillar Two initiative, and various governments around the world have issued, or have announced that they plan to issue, legislation consistent with the OECD model rules. We are within the scope of the OECD Pillar Two model rules. During the third quarter of 2023, the United Kingdom enacted legislation consistent with the OECD model rules, which became effective January 1, 2024. Based on our most recent tax filings, country-by-country reporting, and financial information available, we believe that most of the jurisdictions in which we operate will meet the requirements for transitional safe harbor relief. Therefore, we do not expect the global minimum tax to have a material impact in 2024. However, future legislation or changes in our financial results could materially increase our global minimum tax expense. Dividends on preferred shares Dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred shares are calculated and accrued at an annual rate of 5.25% of the liquidation preference of $100.00 per share. 25 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin (non-GAAP measures) The following table presents our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, and reconciles these non-GAAP measures to our Net income (loss) for the same periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net income (loss) attributable to ordinary shares $ (93.8) $ 24.7 Dividends on preferred shares 18.8 18.8 Net income (loss) (75.0) 43.5 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 15.0 (63.6) Depreciation and amortization 179.4 172.6 Interest expense, net 70.2 73.6 Transaction related costs 4.4 1.7 Share-based compensation expense 15.4 41.2 Restructuring and other impairments 9.5 9.4 Fair value adjustment of warrants (5.2) 1.1 Other(1) 22.6 (26.8) Adjusted EBITDA $ 236.3 $ 252.7 Adjusted EBITDA margin 38.0% 40.2% (1) Primarily reflects the net impact of foreign exchange gains and losses related to the remeasurement of balances and other items that do not reflect our ongoing operating performance. The three months ended March 31, 2024 also includes a $15.8 loss on the divestiture discussed in Note 2 - Acquisitions and Divestitures. The three months ended March 31, 2023 also includes a $49.4 gain on legal settlement. Refer to Note 10 - Other Operating Income, Net and Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies for further information. Liquidity and Capital Resources We finance our operations primarily through cash generated by operating activities and through borrowing activities. As of March 31, 2024, we had $361.8 of cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash of $11.4) and $691.5 of available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility. Cash Flows We have historically generated significant cash flows from our operating activities. Our subscription-based revenue model provides a steady and predictable source of revenue and cash flow for us, as we typically receive payments from our customers at the start of the subscription period (usually 12 months) and recognize revenue ratably throughout that period. Our high customer renewal rate, stable margins, and efforts to improve operating efficiencies and working capital management also contribute to our ability to generate solid operating cash flows. The following table discloses our cash flows by activity for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 176.2 $ 227.5 $ (51.3) (23) % Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities $ (64.4) $ (60.4) $ (4.0) 7 % Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities $ (95.2) $ (151.6) $ 56.4 (37) % The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was driven by timing of working capital changes and lower income from operations. The increase in net cash used for investing activities was due to increased capital spending to fuel product innovation. The decrease in net cash used for financing activities was due to lower prepayments on our term loans, partially offset by payments for fees associated with the refinancing of our existing credit facilities in January 2024. See Borrowings below for further information. Free Cash Flow (non-GAAP measure) 26 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) The following table reconciles our non-GAAP Free cash flow measure to Net cash provided by operating activities for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 176.2 $ 227.5 Capital expenditures (64.4) (59.3) Free cash flow $ 111.8 $ 168.2 The decrease in Free cash flow was driven by the decrease in operating cash flows further described above and from increased capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures in both periods presented consisted primarily of capitalized labor, contract services, and other costs associated with product and content development. Borrowings As of March 31, 2024, we had $4,692.6 of outstanding borrowings under our notes and credit facilities. We incurred $70.2 and $73.6 of interest expense associated with our debt obligations during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Our contingent liabilities consist primarily of letters of credit and performance bonds and other similar obligations in the ordinary course of business. In January 2024, we refinanced our existing credit facilities to provide improved financial flexibility, including extending our debt maturities and lowering our annual cash interest costs. We amended our $750.0 revolving credit facility by reducing it to a $700.0 facility (with a letter of credit sublimit of $77.0) and extending the maturity date to January 31, 2029. We also made a prepayment of $47.4 on our existing term loans due in 2026 and then refinanced the remaining term loans with a new $2,150 tranche of term loans maturing in 2031. The interest rate margin for the new term loan facility decreased from 300 to 275 basis points per annum in the case of loans bearing interest by reference to term SOFR. The term loans amortize in equal quarterly installments (the first installment is payable June 28, 2024) equivalent to a rate of 1.00% per annum, with the balance due at maturity. For further discussion related to our outstanding borrowings, see Note 6 - Debt included in Part I, Item 1 of this quarterly report. Commitments and Contingencies In addition to the scheduled future debt repayments that we will need to make, we also have commitments and plans related to our mandatory convertible preferred shares (MCPS), share repurchase program, capital expenditures, and other commitments in the ordinary course of business, primarily relating to cloud computing services and software license costs. Any amounts for which we are currently liable are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as Accounts payable or Accrued expenses and other current liabilities. Our MCPS will convert to ordinary shares on June 1, 2024 and we will declare and pay approximately $20 of dividends during the second quarter of 2024, prior to conversion. As of March 31, 2024, we had approximately $400 of availability remaining under our share repurchase program. The share repurchase authorization is valid through December 31, 2024. In addition, we are engaged in various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and have taken what we believe to be adequate reserves related to the litigation and threatened claims. We maintain appropriate insurance policies in place, which are likely to provide some coverage for these liabilities or other losses that may arise from litigation matters. For additional information about our legal proceedings and claims, see Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies included in Part I, Item 1 of this quarterly report. We require and will continue to need significant cash resources to, among other things, meet our debt service requirements, fund our working capital requirements, make capital expenditures (including product development), and expand our business through acquisitions. Based on our forecasts, we believe that cash flow from operations, available cash on hand, borrowing capacity, and access to capital markets will be adequate to service debt, meet liquidity needs, and fund capital expenditures and other business plans for both the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the number of future acquisitions and the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts. We could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financings; however, additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us. 27 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Assumptions There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies, estimates, and assumptions from those reported under Part I, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Assumptions in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements For recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 - Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in Part I, Item 1 of this quarterly report.