Item 2 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition This discussion should be read in connection with the information contained in the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations Consolidated net sales increased by $12.3 million or 13.6% for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 versus the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The total positive impact of foreign currency translation on consolidated net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 was $2.2 million. Net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 for the Activated Carbon and Service segment increased $12.7 million or 16.3% versus the similar 2009 period. The increase was primarily due to higher demand in the environmental air treatment market for products related to mercury removal of approximately $8.9 million. Also contributing to the increase was higher demand in the municipal and respirator markets of $1.6 million and $1.6 million, respectively. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of $2.0 million. Net sales for the Equipment segment decreased $0.7 million or 6.8% in the first quarter 2010 versus the comparable 2009 period. The decrease was primarily due to lower revenue for ion exchange systems. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of $0.1 million. Net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 for the Consumer segment increased by $0.3 million or 17.5% versus the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The increase was primarily attributable to higher demand for activated carbon cloth. Foreign currency translation had a positive impact of $0.1 million. Net sales less cost of products sold, as a percentage of net sales, was 36.1% for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 compared to 32.5% for the similar 2009 period, a 3.6 percentage point increase or $7.7 million. The Activated Carbon and Service segment increased by $7.9 million which was primarily related to the aforementioned increase in demand in the environmental air treatment, municipal, and respirator markets. The Equipment segment decreased $0.4 million principally related to volume shortfalls for ion exchange systems. The Consumer segment decreased $0.2 million which was related to product mix of $0.1 million and volume of $0.1 million. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. The depreciation and amortization increase of $1.3 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2010 versus the quarter ended March 31, 2009 was primarily due to increased depreciation related to the significant capital improvements at the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky plant that occurred throughout 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $2.4 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 versus the comparable 2009 quarter which included $1.3 million of acquisition related costs as well as increased employee related expenses. Research and development expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 increased $0.5 million versus the similar 2009 period due to an increase in testing services related to mercury removal from flue gas. 31 Interest income was comparable for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 versus the similar 2009 period. Interest expense was comparable for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 versus the similar 2009 period. As a result of the acquisitions of Zwicky, Hyde, and an additional interest in its Japanese joint venture which are more fully described within Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1, the Company recorded a gain of $2.2 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2010. Other expense net was comparable for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 versus the similar 2009 period. The Company recorded an income tax provision of $5.6 million and $3.1 million for the three month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in tax expense primarily relates to the increase in income from operations before income tax and equity in income from equity investments. The effective tax rate for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 was 38.5% compared to 35.8% for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The quarter ended March 31, 2010 tax rate was higher than the statutory Federal income tax rate mainly due to certain non-deductible transaction costs related to the acquisitions discussed in Note 1; state taxes; and a valuation allowance on a portion of the Companys current year foreign tax credits. These increases were partially offset by net favorable permanent deductions. During the preparation of its effective tax rate, the Company uses an annualized estimate of pre-tax earnings. Throughout the year this annualized estimate may change based on actual results and annual earnings estimate revisions in various tax jurisdictions. Because the Companys permanent tax benefits are relatively constant, changes in the annualized estimate may have a significant impact on the effective tax rate in future periods. The Company provides an estimate for income taxes based on an evaluation of the underlying accounts, its tax filing positions and interpretations of existing law. Changes in estimates are reflected in the year of settlement or expiration of the statute of limitations. Under ASC 740, the Company must recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. Equity in income from equity investments for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 decreased $0.3 million due principally to costs associated with a product warranty related matter at the Companys joint venture Calgon Carbon Japan KK (CCJ). 32 Financial Condition Working Capital and Liquidity Cash flows provided by operating activities were $17.1 million for the period ended March 31, 2010 compared to $8.7 million for the comparable 2009 period. The $8.4 million increase is primarily due to favorable working capital changes of $5.0 million principally related to inventory of $3.5 million, as a result of inventory control measures in Europe and the U.S. including the reduction of purchases of outsourced carbon related products. Also contributing to the increase was improved earnings of $3.0 million. The Company recorded purchase of businesses, net of cash, of $2.1 million related to the acquisitions made during the period ended March 31, 2010 (Refer to Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). Common stock dividends were not paid during the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total debt at March 31, 2010 was $22.5 million and zero at December 31, 2009. The entire balance at March 31, 2010 relates to the addition of the Japanese Loans and Credit Facility which are as a result of the increase in ownership of its joint venture in Japan (Refer to Notes 1 and 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). 5.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2036 On August 18, 2006, the Company issued $75.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.00% Notes due in 2036 (the Notes). The Notes accrued interest at the rate of 5.00% per annum which was payable in cash semi-annually in arrears on each February 15 and August 15, which commenced February 15, 2007. The Notes were eligible to be converted under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2009, all Notes have been converted. Effective January 1, 2009, the Company implemented guidance within Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 470-20 Debt with Conversion and Other Options. This new guidance required the issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments in a manner that reflects the issuers nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. This new accounting method has been applied retrospectively to all periods presented with an impact to retained earnings of $9.2 million as of January 1, 2009. In accordance with guidance within ASC 470-20, the debt discount of $21.9 million was being amortized over the period from August 18, 2006 (the issuance date) to June 15, 2011 (the first put date on the Notes). The effective interest rate for all periods on the liability component was approximately 13.8%. The Company also incurred original issuance costs of $0.4 million which had been deferred and were being amortized over the same period as the discount. For the three months ended March 31, 2009, the Company recorded interest expense of $0.2 million related to the Notes, of which $0.1 million related to the amortization of the discount and $0.1 million related to contractual coupon interest. 33 Credit Facility On August 14, 2008, the Company entered into a third amendment (the Third Amendment) to its Credit Facility (the Prior Credit Facility). The Third Amendment permitted borrowings in an amount up to $60.0 million and included a separate U.K. sub-facility and a separate Belgian sub-facility. The Prior Credit Facility permitted the total revolving credit commitment to be increased up to $75.0 million. The facility was scheduled to mature on May 15, 2011. Availability for domestic borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility was based upon the value of eligible inventory, accounts receivable and property, plant and equipment, with separate borrowing bases to be established for foreign borrowings under a separate U.K. sub-facility and a separate Belgian sub-facility. Availability under the Prior Credit Facility was conditioned upon various customary conditions. On May 8, 2009, the Company and certain of its domestic subsidiaries entered into a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) that replaced the Companys Prior Credit Facility. Concurrent with the closing under the Credit Agreement, the Company terminated and paid in full its obligations under the Prior Credit Facility. The Company provided cash collateral to the former agent bank for the remaining exposure related to outstanding letters of credit and certain derivative obligations. The cash collateral is shown as restricted cash within the consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. The Company was in compliance with all applicable financial covenants and other restrictions under the Prior Credit Facility as of the effective date of its termination and in May 2009, wrote off deferred costs of approximately $0.8 million, pre-tax, related to the Prior Credit Facility. The Credit Agreement provides for an initial $95.0 million revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) which expires on May 8, 2014. So long as no event of default has occurred and is continuing, the Company from time to time may request one or more increases in the total revolving credit commitment under the Revolving Credit Facility of up to $30.0 million in the aggregate. No assurance can be given, however, that the total revolving credit commitment will be increased above $95.0 million. Availability under the Revolving Credit Facility is conditioned upon various customary conditions. A quarterly nonrefundable commitment fee is payable by the Company based on the unused availability under the Revolving Credit Facility and is currently equal to 0.25%. Any outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility on July 2, 2012, up to $50.0 million, automatically convert to a term loan maturing on May 8, 2014 (the Term Loan), with the total revolving credit commitment under the Revolving Credit Facility being reduced at that time by the amount of the Term Loan. Total availability under the Revolving Credit Facility at March 31, 2010 was $91.8 million, after considering outstanding letters of credit. On November 30, 2009, the Company entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement (the First Amendment). The First Amendment relaxes certain restrictions contained in the Credit Agreement so as to permit the Company to form subsidiaries in connection with future acquisitions or for corporate planning purposes; to permit increased capital expenditures; to increase the amount of cash that may be down-streamed to non-domestic subsidiaries; to permit the issuance of up to $8.0 million of letters of credit outside the Credit Agreement; to increase the amount of indebtedness the Company may obtain outside of the Credit Agreement; to permit the pledging of foreign assets to secure certain foreign debt; and to permit the purchase of 51% of Calgon Mitsubishi 34 Chemical Corporation (CMCC) not already owned by the Company, including funding that transaction with foreign debt. The interest rate on amounts owed under the Term Loan and the Revolving Credit Facility will be, at the Companys option, either (i) a fluctuating base rate based on the highest of (A) the prime rate announced from time to time by the lenders, (B) the rate announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on that day as being the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions arranged by federal funds brokers on the previous trading day plus 3.00% or (C) a daily LIBOR rate plus 2.75%, or (ii) LIBOR-based borrowings in one to six month increments at the applicable LIBOR rate plus 2.50%. A margin may be added to the applicable interest rate based on the Companys leverage ratio as set forth in the First Amendment. The interest rate per annum as of March 31, 2010 using option (i) above would have been 3.25% if any borrowings were outstanding. The Company incurred issuance costs of $1.0 million which were deferred and are being amortized over the term of the Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. Certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries unconditionally guarantee all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility are secured by a first perfected security interest in certain of the domestic assets of the Company and the subsidiary guarantors, including certain real property, inventory, accounts receivable, equipment and capital stock of certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type, including limitations on the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to indebtedness, liens, investments, capital expenditures, mergers and acquisitions, dispositions of assets and transactions with affiliates. The Credit Agreement also provides for customary events of default, including failure to pay principal or interest when due, failure to comply with covenants, the fact that any representation or warranty made by the Company is false or misleading in any material respect, certain insolvency or receivership events affecting the Company and its subsidiaries and a change in control of the Company. If an event of default occurs, the lenders will be under no further obligation to make loans or issue letters of credit. Upon the occurrence of certain events of default, all outstanding obligations of the Company automatically become immediately due and payable, and other events of default will allow the lenders to declare all or any portion of the outstanding obligations of the Company to be immediately due and payable. The Credit Agreement also contains a covenant which includes limitations on its ability to declare or pay cash dividends, subject to certain exceptions, such as dividends declared and paid by its subsidiaries and cash dividends paid by the Company in an amount not to exceed 50% of cumulative net after tax earnings following the closing date of the agreement if certain conditions are met. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of March 31, 2010. 35 Japanese Loans and Credit Facility On March 31, 2010, the Company entered into a Revolving Credit Facility Agreement (the Japanese Credit Facility) totaling 2.0 billion Japanese Yen in order to partially finance the purchase of CCJ. This credit facility is unsecured and matures on March 31, 2011. Calgon Carbon Corporation provided a formal guarantee for up to eighty percent (80%) of all of the indebtedness of CCJ in its capacity as the borrower under the Japanese Credit Facility. The interest rate on amounts owed under the Japanese Credit Facility is based on a three-month TIBOR rate plus 0.675%. The interest rate per annum as of March 31, 2010 was 1.15%. Total borrowings outstanding under the Japanese Credit Facility were 1.38 billion Japanese Yen or $14.8 million at March 31, 2010 and are shown as short-term debt within the consolidated balance sheet presented. The Company also entered into two other borrowing arrangements as part of the purchase of CCJ on March 31, 2010, a Term Loan Agreement (the Japanese Term Loan), and a Working Capital Loan Agreement (the Japanese Working Capital Loan). Calgon Carbon Corporation is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor of CCJs obligations and the Company permitted CCJ to grant a security interest and continuing lien in certain of its assets including inventory and accounts receivable to secure its obligations under both loan agreements. The Japanese Term Loan provides for a principal amount of 722.0 million Japanese Yen, or $7.7 million at March 31, 2010. This loan matures on March 31, 2013, bears interest at 1.975% per annum, and is payable in monthly installments of 20.0 million Japanese Yen beginning on April 30, 2010, with a final payment of 22.0 million Japanese Yen. Accordingly, 240.0 million Japanese Yen or $2.6 million is recorded as current and 482.0 million Japanese Yen or $5.1 million is recorded as long-term debt within the consolidated balance sheet presented. The Japanese Working Capital Loan provides for borrowings up to 1.5 billion Japanese Yen and bears interest based on a daily short-term prime rate fixed on the day a borrowing takes place, which was 1.465% per annum at March 31, 2010. This loan matures on March 31, 2011 and is renewable annually for a nominal fee. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Japanese Working Capital Loan at March 31, 2010. Contractual Obligations The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. As of March 31, 2010, there have been no material changes in the payment terms of lease agreements and unconditional purchase obligations since December 31, 2009, except for the addition of debt totaling $22.5 million and the redeemable non-controlling interest of $1.6 million, related to the Companys increase in ownership of its joint venture CCJ (Refer to Notes 1 and 10 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). The Company is obligated to make principal payments on debt outstanding at March 31, 2010 of $1.9 million in 2010, $17.3 million in 2011, $2.6 million in 2012, and $0.7 million in 2013. The cash needs of each of the Companys reporting segments are principally covered by the segments operating cash flow on a stand alone basis. Any additional needs will be funded by cash on hand or borrowings under the Companys credit facility. Specifically, the Equipment and Consumer segments historically have not required extensive capital expenditures; therefore, the Company believes that cash on hand and borrowings will adequately support each of the segments cash needs. 36 Capital Expenditures and Investments Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment totaled $8.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 compared to expenditures of $12.9 million for the same period in 2009. The expenditures for the period ended March 31, 2010 consisted primarily of improvements to the Companys manufacturing facilities of $5.1 million and $1.1 million for customer capital. The comparable 2009 period consisted primarily of improvements to the Companys manufacturing facilities of $10.4 million, of which $5.4 million was directly related to the April 2009 re-start of a previously idled production line at the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky facility, and $1.3 million for customer capital. Capital expenditures for 2010 are projected to be approximately $65.0 million to $75.0 million. The aforementioned expenditures are expected to be funded by operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings. Regulatory Matters Each of the Companys U.S. production facilities has permits and licenses regulating air emissions and water discharges. All of the Companys U.S. production facilities are controlled under permits issued by local, state and federal air pollution control entities. The Company is presently in compliance with these permits. Continued compliance will require administrative control and will be subject to any new or additional standards. In May 2003, the Company partially discontinued operation of one of its three activated carbon lines at its Catlettsburg, Kentucky facility known as B-line. The Company needed to install pollution abatement equipment in order to remain in compliance with state requirements regulating air emissions before resuming full operation of this line. During 2008, the Company installed state of the art wet scrubbers and made process improvements to B-line. The Company invested approximately $20 million to upgrade and abate B-line. B-line was put into production in April 2009. In conjunction with the February 2004 purchase of substantially all of Waterlinks operating assets and the stock of Waterlinks U.K. subsidiary, several environmental studies were performed on Waterlinks Columbus, Ohio property by environmental consulting firms which identified and characterized areas of contamination. In addition, these firms identified alternative methods of remediating the property, identified feasible alternatives and prepared cost evaluations of the various alternatives. The Company concluded from the information in the studies that a loss at this property is probable and recorded the liability as a component of noncurrent other liabilities in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. At March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the balance recorded was $4.0 million. Liability estimates are based on an evaluation of, among other factors, currently available facts, existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and the remediation experience of other companies. The Company has not incurred any environmental remediation expense for the periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. It is reasonably possible that a change in the estimate of this obligation will occur as remediation preparation and remediation activity commences in the future. The ultimate remediation costs are dependent upon, among other things, the requirements of any state or federal environmental agencies, the remediation methods employed, the final scope of work being determined, and the extent and types of contamination which will not be fully determined 37 until experience is gained through remediation and related activities. The accrued amounts are expected to be paid out over the course of several years once work has commenced. The Company has yet to make a determination as to when it will proceed with remediation efforts. By letter dated January 22, 2007, the Company received from the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Region 4 a report of a hazardous waste facility inspection performed by the EPA and the Kentucky Department of Environmental Protection (KYDEP) as part of a Multi Media Compliance Evaluation of the Companys Big Sandy Plant in Catlettsburg, Kentucky that was conducted on September 20 and 21, 2005. Accompanying the report was a Notice of Violation (NOV) alleging multiple violations of the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and corresponding EPA and KYDEP hazardous waste regulations. The alleged violations mainly concern the hazardous waste spent activated carbon regeneration facility. The Company met with the EPA on April 17, 2007 to discuss the inspection report and alleged violations, and submitted written responses in May and June 2007. In August 2007, the EPA notified the Company that it believes there were still significant violations of RCRA that are unresolved by the information in the Companys responses, without specifying the particular violations. During a meeting with the EPA on December 10, 2007, the EPA indicated that the agency would not pursue certain other alleged violations. Based on discussions during the December 10, 2007 meeting, subsequent communications with the EPA, and in connection with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) Notice referred to below, the Company has taken actions to address and remediate a number of the unresolved alleged violations. The Company believes, and the EPA has indicated, that the number of unresolved issues as to alleged continuing violations cited in the January 22, 2007 NOV has been reduced substantially. The EPA can take formal enforcement action to require the Company to remediate any or all of the unresolved alleged continuing violations which could require the Company to incur substantial additional costs. The EPA can also take formal enforcement action to impose substantial civil penalties with respect to violations cited in the NOV, including those which have been admitted or resolved. The Company is awaiting further response from the EPA and cannot predict with any certainty the probable outcome of this matter or range of potential loss, if any. On July 3, 2008, the EPA verbally informed the Company that there are a number of unresolved RCRA violations at the Big Sandy Plant which may render the facility unacceptable to receive spent carbon for reactivation from sites regulated under CERCLA pursuant to the CERCLA Off-Site Rule. The Company received written notice of the unacceptability determination on July 14, 2008 (the CERCLA Notice). The CERCLA Notice alleged multiple violations of RCRA and four releases of hazardous waste. The alleged violations and releases were cited in the September 2005 multi-media compliance inspections, and were among those cited in the January 2007 NOV described in the preceding paragraph as well. The CERCLA Notice gave the Company until September 1, 2008 to demonstrate to the EPA that the alleged violations and releases are not continuing, or else the Big Sandy Plant would not be able to receive spent carbon from CERCLA sites until the EPA determined that the facility is again acceptable to receive such CERCLA wastes. This deadline subsequently was extended several times. The Company met with the EPA in August 2008 regarding the CERCLA Notice and submitted a written response to the CERCLA Notice prior to the meeting. By letter dated February 13, 2009, the EPA informed the Company that based on information submitted by the Company indicating that the Big Sandy Plant has returned to physical compliance for 38 the alleged violations and releases, the EPA had made an affirmative determination of acceptability for receipt of CERCLA wastes at the Big Sandy Plant. The EPAs determination is conditioned upon the Company treating certain residues resulting from the treatment of the carbon reactivation furnace off-gas as hazardous waste and not sending material dredged from the onsite wastewater treatment lagoons offsite other than to a permitted hazardous waste treatment, storage or disposal facility. The Company has requested clarification from the EPA regarding these two conditions. The Company has also met with Headquarters of the EPA Solid Waste Division (Headquarters) on March 6, 2009 and presented its classification argument, with the understanding that Headquarters would advise Region 4 of the EPA. By letter dated January 5, 2010, the EPA determined certain residues resulting from the treatment of the carbon reactivation furnace off-gas are RCRA listed hazardous wastes and the material dredged from the onsite wastewater treatment lagoons is a RCRA listed hazardous waste and that they need to be managed in accordance with RCRA regulations. The Company has learned that the United States Department of Justice is preparing a complaint with respect to the matters. The cost to treat and/or dispose of the material dredged from the lagoons as hazardous waste could be substantial. However, by letter dated January 22, 2010, the Company received a determination from the KYDEP Division of Waste Management that the material is not listed hazardous waste when recycled as had been the Companys practice. The Company believes that pursuant to EPA regulations, KYDEP is the proper authority to make this determination. Thus, the Company believes that there is no basis for the position set forth in the EPAs January 5, 2010 letter and the Company will vigorously defend any complaint on the matter. The Company has had several additional discussions with Region 4 of the EPA. The Company has indicated to the EPA that it is willing to work with the agency toward a solution subject to a comprehensive resolution of all the issues including any complaint from the Department of Justice. By letter dated August 18, 2008, the Company was notified by the EPA Suspension and Debarment Division (SDD) that because of the alleged violations described in the CERCLA Notice, the SDD was making an assessment of the Companys present responsibility to conduct business with Federal Executive Agencies. Representatives of the SDD attended the August 2008 EPA meeting. On August 28, 2008, the Company received a letter from the Division requesting additional information from the Company in connection with the SDDs evaluation of the Companys potential business risk to the Federal Government, noting that the Company engages in procurement transactions with or funded by the Federal Government. The Company provided the SDD with all information requested by the letter in September 2008. The SDD can suspend or debar a Company from sales to the Federal Government directly or indirectly through government contractors or with respect to projects funded by the Federal Government. The Company estimates that revenue from sales made directly to the Federal Government or indirectly through government contractors comprised less than 9% of its total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Company is unable to estimate sales made directly or indirectly to customers and or projects that receive federal funding. In October 2008, the SDD indicated that it was still reviewing the matter but that another meeting with the Company was not warranted at that time. The Company believes that there is no basis for suspension or debarment on the basis of the matters asserted by the EPA in the CERCLA Notice or otherwise. The Company has had no further communication with the SDD since October 2008 and believes the likelihood of any action being taken by the SDD is remote. 39 In June 2007, the Company received a Notice Letter from the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) stating that the NYSDEC had determined that the Company is a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) at the Frontier Chemical Processing Royal Avenue Site in Niagara Falls, New York (the Site). The Notice Letter requests that the Company and other PRPs develop, implement and finance a remedial program for Operable Unit #1 at the Site. Operable Unit #1 consists of overburden soils and overburden and upper bedrock groundwater. The selected remedy is removal of above grade structures and contaminated soil source areas, installation of a cover system, and ground water control and treatment, estimated to cost between approximately $11 million and $14 million, which would be shared among the PRPs. The Company has not determined what portion of the costs associated with the remedial program it would be obligated to bear and the Company cannot predict with any certainty the outcome of this matter or range of potential loss. The Company has joined a PRP group and has executed a Joint Defense Agreement with the group members. In August 2008, the Company and over 100 PRPs entered into a Consent Order with the NYSDEC for additional site investigation directed toward characterization of the Site to better define the scope of the remedial project. The Company contributed monies to the PRP group to help fund the work required under the Consent Order. The additional site investigation required under the Consent Order was initiated in 2008 and completed in the spring of 2009. A final report of the site investigation was submitted to the NYSDEC in October 2009. In a letter dated December 31, 2009, the NYSDEC disapproved the report. The basis for disapproval include concerns regarding proposed alternate soil cleanup objectives, questions regarding soil treatability studies and questions regarding ground water contamination. The PRP Group has discussed the stated concerns with the NYSDEC and is considering alternative soil cleanup approaches. By letter dated July 3, 2007, the Company received an NOV from the KYDEP alleging that the Company has violated the KYDEPs hazardous waste management regulations in connection with the Companys hazardous waste spent activated carbon regeneration facility located at the Big Sandy Plant in Catlettsburg, Kentucky. The NOV alleges that the Company has failed to correct deficiencies identified by the KYDEP in the Companys Part B hazardous waste management facility permit application and related documents and directed the Company to submit a complete and accurate Part B application and related documents and to respond to the KYDEPs comments which were appended to the NOV. The Company submitted a response to the NOV and the KYDEPs comments in December 2007 by providing a complete revised permit application. The KYDEP has not indicated whether or not it will take formal enforcement action, and has not specified a monetary amount of civil penalties it might pursue in any such action, if any. The KYDEP can also deny the Part B operating permit. On October 18, 2007, the Company received an NOV from the EPA related to this permit application and submitted a revised application to both the KYDEP and the EPA within the mandated timeframe. The EPA has not indicated whether or not it will take formal enforcement action, and has not specified a monetary amount of civil penalties it might pursue in any such action. The Company met with the KYDEP on July 27, 2009 concerning the permit, and the KYDEP indicated that it, and Region 4 of the EPA, would like to see specific additional information or clarifications in the permit application. Accordingly, the Company submitted a new application on October 15, 2009. The KYDEP indicated that it had no intention to deny the permit as long as the Company worked with the state to resolve issues. The Region 4 of the EPA has not indicated any stance on the permit and can deny the application. At this time the Company cannot predict with any certainty the outcome of this matter or range of loss, if any. 40 The Company is also subject to various environmental health and safety laws and regulations at its facilities in Belgium, Germany, United Kingdom, China, Canada, Sweden, Denmark, Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan, and Japan. These laws and regulations address substantially the same issues as those applicable to the Company in the United States. The Company believes it is presently in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations. Other On March 8, 2006, the Company and another U.S. producer (the Petitioners) of activated carbon formally requested that the United States Department of Commerce investigate unfair pricing of certain activated carbon imported from the Peoples Republic of China. The Commerce Department investigated imports of activated carbon from China that is thermally activated using a combination of heat, steam and/or carbon dioxide. Certain types of activated carbon from China, most notably chemically-activated carbon, were not investigated. On March 2, 2007, the Commerce Department published its final determination (subsequently amended) that all of the subject merchandise from China was being unfairly priced, or dumped, and thus that special additional duties should be imposed to offset the amount of the unfair pricing. The resultant tariff rates ranged from 61.95% ad valorem (i.e., of the entered value of the goods) to 228.11% ad valorem. A formal order imposing these tariffs was published on April 27, 2007. All imports from China remain subject to the order and antidumping tariffs. Importers of subject activated carbon from China are required to make cash deposits of estimated antidumping tariffs at the time the goods are entered into the United States customs territory. Deposits of tariffs are subject to future revision based on retrospective reviews conducted by the Commerce Department. The Company is both a domestic producer and one of the largest U.S. importers (from its wholly-owned subsidiary Calgon Carbon (Tianjin) Co., Ltd.) of the activated carbon that is subject to this proceeding. As such, the Companys involvement in the Commerce Departments proceedings is both as a domestic producer (a petitioner) and as a foreign exporter (a respondent). As one of two U.S. producers involved as petitioners in the case, the Company is actively involved in ensuring the Commerce Department obtains the most accurate information from the foreign producers and exporters involved in the review, in order to calculate the most accurate results and margins of dumping for the sales at issue. As an importer of activated carbon from China and in light of the successful antidumping tariff case, the Company was required to pay deposits of estimated antidumping tariffs at the rate of 84.45% ad valorem to U.S. Customs and Border Protection (Customs) on entries made on or after October 11, 2006 through April 8, 2007. Because of limits on the governments legal authority to impose provisional tariffs prior to issuance of a final determination, entries made between April 9, 2007 and April 19, 2007 were not subject to tariffs. For the period April 20, 2007 through November 10, 2009, deposits have been paid at 69.54%. The Companys role as an importer that is required to pay tariffs results in a contingent liability related to the final amount of tariffs that it will ultimately have to pay. The Company has made deposits of estimated tariffs in two ways. First, estimated tariffs on entries in the period from October 11, 2006 through April 8, 2007 were covered by 41 a bond. The total amount of tariffs that can be paid on entries in this period is capped as a matter of law, though the Company may receive a refund with interest of any difference due to a reduction in the actual margin of dumping found in the first review. The Companys estimated liability for tariffs during this period of $0.2 million is reflected in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2010. Second, the Company has been required to post cash deposits of estimated tariffs owed on entries of subject merchandise since April 19, 2007. The final amount of tariffs owed on these entries may change, and can either increase or decrease depending on the final results of relevant administrative inquiries. This process is further described below. The amount of estimated antidumping tariffs payable on goods imported into the United States is subject to review and retroactive adjustment based on the actual amount of dumping that is found. To do this, the Commerce Department conducts periodic reviews of sales made to the first unaffiliated U.S. customer, typically over the prior 12 month period. These reviews will be possible for at least five years, and can result in changes to the antidumping tariff rate (either increasing or reducing the rate) applicable to any given foreign exporter. Revision of tariff rates has two effects. First, it will alter the actual amount of tariffs that Customs will seek to collect for the period reviewed, by either increasing or decreasing the amount to reflect the actual amount of dumping that was found. If the actual amount of tariffs owed increases, the government will require payment of the difference plus interest. Conversely, when the tariff rate decreases, any difference is refunded with interest. Second, the revised rate becomes the cash deposit rate applied to future entries, and can either increase or decrease the amount of deposits an importer will be required to pay. On November 10, 2009, the Commerce Department announced the results of its review of the tariff period beginning October 2006 through March 31, 2008 (period of review (POR) I). Based on the POR I results, the Companys ongoing tariff deposit rate was adjusted from 69.54% to 14.51% (as adjusted by .07% for certain ministerial errors and published in the Federal Register on December 17, 2009) for entries made subsequent to the announcement. In addition, the Companys assessment rate for POR I was determined to have been too high and, accordingly, the Company reduced its recorded liability for unpaid deposits in POR I and recorded a receivable of $1.6 million reflecting expected refunds for tariff deposits made during POR I as a result of the announced decrease in the POR I tariff assessment rate. Note that the Petitioners have appealed to the U.S. Court of International Trade the Commerce Departments POR I results challenging, among other things, the selection of certain surrogate values and financial information which in-part caused the reduction in the tariff rate. Other appeals were also filed by Chinese respondents seeking changes to the calculations that either do not relate to the Companys tariff rate or would, if applied to the Company, lower its tariff rate. There is no deadline for a final decision regarding these appeals but such appeals typically take at least a year to resolve. The Company will not have final settlement of the amounts it may owe or receive as a result of the final POR I tariff rates until the aforementioned appeals are resolved. On April 1, 2009, the Commerce Department published a formal notice allowing parties to request a second annual administrative review of the antidumping tariff order covering the period April 1, 2008 through March 31, 2009 (POR II). Requests for review were due no later than April 30, 2009. The Company, in its capacity as a U.S. producer and separately as a Chinese exporter, elected not to participate in this administrative review. By not 42 participating in the review, the Companys tariff deposits made during POR II are final and not subject to further adjustment. For POR I, the Company estimates that a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the final tariff rate compared to the announced rate on November 10, 2009 would result in an additional payment or refund of approximately $0.1 million. As noted above, the Companys tariff deposits made during POR II are fixed and not subject to change. For the period April 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010 (POR III), a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the final tariff rate compared to the announced rates in effect for the period would result in an additional payment or refund of $0.1 million based on deposits made during this period. The contingent liability relating to tariffs paid on imports is somewhat mitigated by two factors. First and foremost, the antidumping tariff orders disciplinary effect on the market encourages the elimination of dumping through fair pricing. Separately, pursuant to the Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act of 2000 (repealed effective Feb. 8, 2006), as an affected domestic producer, the Company is eligible to apply for a distribution of a share of certain tariffs collected on entries of subject merchandise from China from October 11, 2006 to September 30, 2007. In July 2009 and 2008, the Company applied for such distributions. In November 2009 and December 2008, the Company received distributions of approximately $0.8 million and $0.2 million, respectively, which reflected 59.57% of the total amounts then available. The Company anticipates receiving additional amounts in 2010 and future years related to tariffs paid for the period October 11, 2006 through September 30, 2007, though the exact amount is impossible to determine. There were no additional amounts received as of the period ended March 31, 2010. Outlook Activated Carbon and Service The Companys activated carbon and service sales volume in 2010, for markets other than environmental air which is where powder activated carbon (PAC) sold for the mercury market is categorized, will remain challenging for the Company as not all markets have rebounded from the effects of the worldwide economic slowdown. During 2009, many manufacturers within the Companys industrial customer base were scaling back or shutting down operations which has continued to impact demand through the first quarter of 2010. However, offsetting this volume decline will be the continued higher sales volume for carbon products used to remove mercury from flue gas of coal-fired power plants in the U.S. as a result of contracts that were already awarded to the Company as well as regulations that went into effect in certain U.S. states as of January 1, 2010. The Company also anticipates an increase in demand for drinking water in the municipal market during 2010. While the tariff on imported Chinese thermally activated carbon was lowered significantly in November 2009, current trends do not indicate signs of pricing pressure. However, the Company cannot predict with any certainty that this will remain the case throughout all of 2010. During 2009, in addition to the April restart of the previously idled B-line at the Catlettsburg, Kentucky facility, the Company also further invested at this site in a new pulverization facility which is capable of converting 90 million pounds of feedstock to PAC. The pulverization facility commenced operation during the fourth quarter of 2009 and reduces the Companys reliance on third-party 43 grinding. PAC is recognized today by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as the leading abatement technology for mercury removal from coal-fired power plant flue gas. The Company believes that this could become the largest U.S. market for activated carbon and has made great strides in establishing itself as a market leader. Mercury emission standards that begin to take effect in more than a dozen states, primarily in 2010, are driving the current PAC market, but U.S. regulatory or congressional action will determine the national standards in the long-term. Currently, the EPA plans to issue proposed mercury emission standards by March 2011 that would then be finalized by November 2011. The Company currently estimates that annual demand could be as high as 165 million pounds in 2010; 220 million pounds in 2011 and 2012; and, 750 million pounds within the next ten years. In addition, more than 140 countries have indicated interest in a multi-nation mercury removal pact that could be agreed upon on as early as 2013. The need for municipal drinking water utilities to comply with the Environmental Protection Agencys Stage 2 Disinfection By-Product (DBP) Rule is yet another growth driver for the Company. DBPs are compounds that form when water is disinfected with chemicals, and granular activated carbon (GAC) is recognized by the EPA as a best available control technology (BACT) for the reduction of DBPs. The EPA promulgated the Stage 2 DBP Rule in 2006, and requires water utilities to come into compliance with the rule in a phased manner between 2012 and 2014. The Company currently estimates that this regulation may increase demand for GAC by municipal water utilities in the United States by as much as 100 million pounds per year by 2015. In anticipation of the eventual improvement in the worldwide economy and to meet the increased demand for mercury removal and the DBP Rule, the Company currently plans to make significant capital expenditures in 2010 totaling $65 million to $75 million. The Company is investing in a capacity expansion of the Feluy, Belgium site as well as new reactivation facilities in China and in the northeast United States. In total, these sites are believed to eventually increase the Companys service business capacity by 59 million pounds annually. Only the U.S. location is expected to commence operation in 2010. In addition to these initiatives, the Company plans on increasing its presence throughout the world. In March 2010, the Company acquired a controlling interest in its current joint venture in Japan with full ownership expected in early 2011 (Refer to Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). This acquisition will increase the Companys capabilities in the worlds second largest geographical market by country for activated carbon and will also contribute favorably to the restart of its currently idled virgin carbon plant in Datong, China. In Europe, the Company acquired Zwicky Denmark and Sweden, long-term distributors of the Companys activated carbon products and provider of services associated with the reactivation of activated carbon, in January 2010 (Refer to Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). This acquisition is consistent with the Companys strategic initiatives to accelerate growth in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden and to expand its service capabilities in Europe outside of the geographic markets it has traditionally served. Equipment The Companys equipment business is somewhat cyclical in nature and depends on both current regulations as well as the general health of the overall economy. U.S demand for the Companys ultraviolet light (UV) systems is expected to hold as the Company moves closer to the deadline of 2012 for affected municipalities to treat for Cryptosporidium in drinking water. Although equipment contract awards slowed during 2009, bid activity is 44 expected to be strong in 2010. Backlog for the Equipment segment at March 31, 2010 is $14.4 million. In January 2010, the Company acquired Hyde Marine, Inc., a manufacturer of systems that utilize UV technology to treat marine ballast water (Refer to Note 1 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1). In 2004, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) adopted the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (BWMC) which addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water. The regulation is scheduled to be phased in globally over a ten-year period beginning in 2010, and industry sources estimate that it will require treatment of ballast water from more than 40,000 vessels by 2020. Hyde Marines Hyde Guardian system (Guardian), which employs stacked disk and ultraviolet light technology to filter and disinfect ballast water, offers cost, safety, and technological advantages. Guardian has received Type Approval from Lloyds Register on behalf of the U.K. Maritime and Coast Guard Agency. Type Approval confirms compliance with the BWMC. This strategic acquisition has provided the Company immediate entry into a global, legislative-driven market with major long-term growth potential. Consumer The slowing economy contributed to decreased demand for the Companys PreZerve products in 2009. During the first quarter of 2010, the Company saw an increase in its activated carbon cloth sales compared to the similar 2009 period. Notwithstanding this first sign of recovery, the Company expects that during the second quarter of 2010 the sales will be at a similar level compared to 2009. Critical Accounting Policies There were no material changes to the Companys critical accounting policies from those disclosed in the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. 45