ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Dragoneer Growth Opportunities Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, references to the Sponsor refer to Dragoneer Growth Opportunities Holdings. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on July 3, 2020 as a Cayman Islands exempted company for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities. We intend to effectuate our initial Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of our Initial Public Offering and the sale of the private placement warrants, our shares, debt or a combination of cash, equity and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Recent Developments Merger Agreement On February 2, 2021, the Company, Chariot Merger Sub, and CCC entered into the Business Combination Agreement (as amended on April 22, 2021 by Amendment No. 1 to the Business Combination Agreement and on July 6, 2021 by Amendment No. 2 to Business Combination Agreement), pursuant to which on the closing date, among other things and subject to the terms and conditions contained therein: (i) the Domestication will occur, and, in connection with the Domestication, (A) the Companys name will be changed as determined by CCC in its sole discretion, (B) each outstanding Class A ordinary share of Dragoneer and each outstanding Class B ordinary share of the Company will become one share of Dragoneer Common Stock, and (C) each outstanding whole warrant of Dragoneer will become one warrant to purchase one share of Dragoneer Common Stock; and (ii) the Merger. In accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions of the Business Combination Agreement, all outstanding shares, together with all outstanding equity awards, of CCC will be exchanged for shares of Dragoneer Common Stock or comparable equity awards that are settled or are exercisable for shares of Dragoneer Common Stock, as applicable, based on an implied CCC equity value of $5,740,750,000, subject to adjustment in accordance with the Business Combination Agreement. Additionally, the current CCC equityholders and the sponsor each have an earn out tied to the trading price of shares of the combined company after the closing of the Merger. Under the Business Combination Agreement, the obligations of the parties to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby are subject to a number of closing conditions, including, but not limited to, (i) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, (ii) the approval of the Companys shareholders, (iii) the approval of CCCs shareholders, (iv) the Company having at least $5,000,001 of net tangible assets (as determined in accordance with Rule 3a51-1(g)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) remaining after the closing of the Proposed Business Combination and (v) the aggregate cash proceeds from the Companys trust account equaling no less than $207,000,000 (after deducting any amounts paid to the Companys shareholders that exercise their redemption rights in connection with the Proposed Business Combination and net of the Companys unpaid transaction expenses and the Companys unpaid liabilities). In addition, the obligation of CCC to consummate the Proposed Business Combination is subject to the fulfillment of other closing conditions, including, but not limited to, (i) the approval by the NYSE of the Companys initial listing application in connection with the Proposed Business Combination, (ii) the aggregate cash proceeds from the Companys forward purchase agreements equaling no less than $175,000,000, at least $150,000,000 of which shall be provided by the sponsor, (iii) the consummation of the Domestication and (iv) the Company having made all necessary arrangements to cause the trustee to release the funds from the Companys trust account available to the Company . 18 Table of Contents The Business Combination Agreement is targeted to close on July 30, 2021. The Business Combination Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the closing of the Proposed Business Combination by mutual written consent of the Company and CCC and, among other things, if the Proposed Business Combination is not consummated by August 5, 2021. As such, the closing of the Proposed Business Combination cannot be assured. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from inception to June 30, 2021 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination and activities in connection with the proposed acquisition of CCC. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We may generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with completing a Business Combination. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $17,630,095, which consisted of the change in the value of our warrant, conversion option liability and FPA liabilities of $15,647,109 offset by operating costs of $998,689 and a non-cash interest expense attributable to the amortization of debt discount of $1,000,000 and interest earned on the marketable securities of $15,703. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net income of $142,994,465, which consisted of the change in the value of our warrant, conversion option liability and FPA liabilities of $150,374,131 offset by operating costs of $5,401,608 and a non-cash interest expense attributable to the amortization of debt discount of $2,000,000 and interest earned on the marketable securities of $21,942. Liquidity and Capital Resources On August 18, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 69,000,000 Units, which included the full exercise by the underwriters of the over-allotment option to purchase an additional 9,000,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $690,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of an aggregate of 15,800,000 Private Placement Warrants to our Sponsor at a price of $1.00 per warrant, generating gross proceeds of $15,800,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $690,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $38,924,273 in transaction costs, including $13,800,000 of underwriting fees, $24,150,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $974,273 of other offering costs in connection with the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants. 19 Table of Contents For the six months ended June 30, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $1,147,660. Net income of $142,994,465 was offset by a non-cash charge for the change in the fair value of warrant, conversion option liability and FPA liabilities of $150,374,131 and interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $21,942 in addition to non-cash interest expense attributable to the amortization of debt discount of $2,000,000. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $4,253,948 of cash from operating activities. As of June 30, 2021, we had money market funds held in the Trust Account of $690,021,942. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less taxes payable (if applicable) and deferred underwriting commissions) and the proceeds from the sale of the forward purchase units to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our shares or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the post-Business Combination entity, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of June 30, 2021, we had cash of $1,441,976 held outside of the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to cover professional services, travel to and from the offices, properties or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $2,000,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants identical to the Private Placement Warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. On January 19, 2021, we entered into a Working Capital Loan with the Sponsor pursuant to which the Sponsor agreed to loan us up to an aggregate principal amount of $2,000,000. We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating and consummating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon consummation of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than as described below. We have an agreement to pay the underwriters a deferred fee of $24,150,000 in the aggregate, which will become payable to them from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. We entered into a forward purchase agreements which provides for the purchase by each of Dragoneer Funding LLC (Dragoneer Funding) and entities managed by or associated with Willett Advisors LLC (the Willett Purchasers) of up to an aggregate of 17,500,000 units (the forward purchase units), with each unit consisting of one Class A ordinary share and one-fifth of one warrant to purchase one Class A ordinary share for $10.00 per unit, or $175,000,000 in the aggregate, in a private placement to close substantially concurrently with the closing of our initial Business Combination. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of unaudited condensed financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: 20 Table of Contents Warrant Liability We account for the Warrants in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 815-40 under which the Warrants do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and must be recorded as liabilities. Accordingly, we classify the Warrants as liabilities at their fair value and adjust the Warrants to fair value at each reporting period. This liability is subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in our statement of operations. The Public Warrants for periods where no observable traded price was available are valued using a barrier option simulation. For periods subsequent to the detachment of the Public Warrants from the Units, the Public Warrant quoted market price was used as the fair value as of each relevant date. The fair value of Private Warrants was determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. Derivative Financial Instruments We evaluate our financial instruments to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives in accordance with ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. For derivative financial instruments that are accounted for as liabilities, the derivative instrument is initially recorded at its fair value on the issuance date and is then revalued at each reporting date, with changes in the fair value reported in the statements of operations. The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is evaluated at the end of each reporting period. Derivative liabilities are classified in the balance sheet as current or non-current based on whether or not net-cash settlement or conversion of the instrument could be required within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that features redemption rights that is either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption is presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our unaudited condensed balance sheets. Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Net income per ordinary share, basic and diluted for Class A redeemable ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account by the weighted average number of Class A redeemable ordinary shares outstanding since original issuance. Net loss per common share, basic and diluted for Class B non-redeemable ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net income (loss), less income attributable to Class A redeemable ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of Class B non-redeemable ordinary shares outstanding for the periods presented. Recent Accounting Standards In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. ASU 2020-06 removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception and it also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. ASU 2020-06 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, including interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. We adopted ASU 2020-06 effective as of January 1, 2021. The adoption of ASU 2020-06 did not have an impact on our financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our unaudited condensed financial statements.