Item 2 . Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition This discussion should be read in connection with the information contained in the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations Consolidated net sales decreased by $9.0 million or 6.8% and $27.4 million or 6.8% for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2016, respectively, versus the similar 2015 periods. Included in the change for the quarter and year to date periods, respectively was a $0.5 million and $1.4 million negative impact of foreign currency translation. A stronger U.S. dollar in the United Kingdom and China resulted in a negative impact within the Activated Carbon and Service and Consumer segments which was partially offset by a weaker U.S. dollar in Japan within the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Net sales for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2016 for the Activated Carbon and Service segment decreased $8.8 million or 7.3% and $27.8 million or 7.6%, respectively, versus the similar 2015 periods. Included in this change was the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $0.2 million and $0.8 million for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2016, respectively. Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 Net of Net of Foreign Foreign Foreign Foreign As Currency Currency As Currency Currency (Dollars in millions) Reported Impact Impact Reported Impact Impact Environmental Air market $ (7.1) $ (0.3) $ (7.4) $ (11.1) $ (0.5) $ (11.6) Environmental Water market (4.2) (0.2) (4.4) (7.3) (0.4) (7.7) Food and Beverage market 0.7 0.7 (2.5) (0.1) (2.6) Industrial market (0.3) (0.1) (0.4) (4.2) (4.2) Potable Water market 1.1 0.5 1.6 (6.3) 1.1 (5.2) Specialty Carbon market 2.4 0.3 2.7 4.1 0.6 4.7 Other (1.4) (1.4) (0.5) 0.1 (0.4) Total Activated Carbon and Service $ (8.8) $ 0.2 $ (8.6) $ (27.8) $ 0.8 $ (27.0) The third quarter decline in the Americas Environmental Air market resulted from a legacy customer that was using standard product switching suppliers in 2016 and a number of coal-fired electric generation units permanently changing over to gas-fired units due to the very low natural gas prices. The Environmental Water market was negatively impacted by a customer plant closure in Asia, along with a decline in industrial environmental activity due to a slow economy. Partially offsetting these declines was higher demand in the Specialty Carbon market for metal recovery carbon products in the Americas and for respirator carbon products in Asia. Contributing to the year over year decline was lower demand in the Environmental Air market, as noted above. In addition, the unseasonably warmer winter weather conditions coupled with very low natural gas prices reduced the operational requirements of certain customers coal-fired electric generating units in 2016 which resulted in a decline in demand in the Environmental Air market. This decline was partially offset by an increase in demand for activated carbon pellets for treating sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions. The Environmental Water market was negatively impacted by a customer plant closure in Asia. The decline in sales in the Potable Water market was a result of a significant order in Asia for municipal drinking water treatment in 2015 that did not repeat in 2016. Lower demand in the Industrial and the Food and Beverage markets was largely due to soft economic conditions, customers optimizing their processes resulting in a rationalization of carbon usage, and a general slowness in project related activity. An increase in the Specialty Carbon market as noted above, partially offset the decline in the other markets. 22 Table of Contents Net sales for the Equipment segment were comparable for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the same periods in 2015. Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended (Dollars in millions) September 30, 2016 September 30, 2016 Carbon adsorption equipment $ 2.4 $ 4.1 Ballast water treatment systems (0.8) (3.8) Traditional ultraviolet light systems (0.3) 0.3 Ion exchange systems (1.2) (0.5) Total Equipment $ 0.1 $ 0.1 For the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2016, sales for ballast water treatment systems were lower due to continued regulatory delays and a decline in sales of equipment to offshore service vessels, the demand from which has been impacted by ongoing low oil prices. In addition, sales of ion exchange equipment were lower due to several large projects in 2015 that didnt repeat in 2016. These declines were offset by several large projects for carbon adsorption equipment in 2016 as compared to the prior year. Foreign currency translation effects in the Equipment segment were not significant. Net sales for the Consumer segment decreased $0.3 million or 15.3% for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015 due to the $0.3 million negative foreign currency impact of the weaker pound sterling. For the year to date period ended September 30, 2016, net sales increased $0.3 million or 5.0% as compared to the similar 2015 period due to higher demand for defense application products, which was partially offset by the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $0.6 million. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percentage of net sales, was 31.1% for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 compared to 36.2% for the similar 2015 period, a 5.1 percentage point or $6.3 million decrease primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Approximately $4.9 million of this decrease resulted from a decline in the volume of higher margin products, including FLUEPAC products for mercury removal, coupled with an increase in volume of lower margin products as compared to the prior year. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percentage of net sales, was 33.2% for the year to date period ended September 30, 2016 compared to 36.5% for the comparable 2015 period, a 3.3 percentage point or $12.4 million decrease primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Approximately $9.9 million of this decrease resulted from a decline in the volume of higher margin products, including FLUEPAC products for mercury removal coupled with an increase in volume of lower margin products compared to the prior year. The Company incurred higher pension costs of approximately $0.9 million for the U.S. plans in 2016 as compared to 2015. In 2015, the Company benefited from refunds for import duties paid of $1.3 million which did not occur in the 2016 period. A business interruption insurance settlement of $0.9 million received in 2016 provided a partial offset to the aforementioned items. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased $0.5 million and $1.5 million for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2016 versus the similar 2015 periods. The increases were primarily due to higher depreciation expense related to the completion of several large projects such as the improvement and upgrades to the Companys manufacturing facilities, the new headquarters facility, and the SAP re-implementation project. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $1.8 million or 8.6% for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 versus the comparable 2015 period primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. The Company experienced lower employee related costs of $1.3 million, of which $0.4 million was a result of lower pension settlement costs in the third quarter of 2016 versus the comparable period in 2015. In addition, higher outside consulting services were incurred in the third quarter of 2015, largely related to the SAP re-implementation project, but did not repeat in 2016. Partially offsetting the lower costs were costs of $0.6 million related to the acquisition of the Activated Carbon and Filter Aid Business (Acquisition) that were incurred in 2016. Refer to additional discussion in Note 15 of the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.1 million or 1.7% for the year to date period ended September 30, 2016 versus the comparable 2015 period primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. During 2016, $3.5 23 Table of Contents million of costs related to the Acquisition have been incurred, the impact of which was partially offset by outside consulting services incurred in 2015, largely related to the SAP re-implementation project, that were not incurred in 2016. Research and development expenses decreased $0.6 million and $0.8 million for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2016 versus the comparable 2015 periods. This decrease was largely due to expenses related to the Companys new research and development innovation center that were incurred in the quarter and year to date periods in 2015 but did not repeat in 2016. Interest income was comparable for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2016 versus the comparable 2015 periods. Interest expense increased $0.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively, for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2016 versus the comparable 2015 periods due to an increase in the average outstanding borrowings under the Companys debt agreements, coupled with slightly higher interest rates in 2016. The additional expense of $1.6 million in other income (expense) - net for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 versus the comparable 2015 period was largely related to foreign exchange. The additional expense of $0.3 million in other income (expense) - net for the year to date period ended September 30, 2016 was largely due to income reported in 2015 for a decline in the earn-out liability related to a 2010 acquisition that didnt repeat in 2016, partially offset by additional income from foreign exchange as compared to the similar 2015 period. The income tax provision decreased $3.9 million and $9.0 million, respectively, for the quarter and year to date periods ended September 30, 2016, as compared to the similar 2015 periods predominately due to a decline in pretax earnings. The effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was 20.2% compared to 31.3% for the same period in 2015. The effective rate for the year to date period ended September 30, 2016 was 30.3% compared to 33.0% for the similar 2015 period. The decrease in the effective rates for the three month and year to date periods ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the 2015 comparable periods primarily relates to discrete provision to return adjustments related to the filing of the U.S. tax return and changes in the mix of earnings in taxing jurisdictions where the tax rate is lower than the U.S. rate. In the preparation of its effective tax rate, the Company uses an estimate of pre-tax earnings for the year. Throughout the year this estimate may change based on actual results and annual earnings estimate revisions in various tax jurisdictions. Since the Companys permanent tax benefits are relatively constant, changes in the estimate may have a significant impact on the effective tax rate in future periods. Financial Condition Working Capital and Liquidity The Company has had sufficient financial resources to meet its operating requirements and to fund capital spending, dividend payments, share repurchases and pension plans. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $52.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to $53.0 million for the comparable period ended September 30, 2015. Net cash flow was comparable between the two periods as a net favorable working capital change offset the lower operating results in 2016. The Company made pension contributions to its pension plans which included $0.6 million and $1.2 million of discretionary contributions to the U.S. pension plans during the nine month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company received proceeds related to a government grant in Asia of $0.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Refer to Note 14 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for further details. On October 4, 2016, the Company entered into the First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (Amended Credit Agreement) which amended the Companys existing U.S. Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement) described below. The Amended Credit Agreement increases the Companys total borrowing capacity to $400 million, comprised of a $300 million revolving credit facility (Amended Revolver) and a $100 million term loan facility (Term Loan). The Amended 24 Table of Contents Credit Agreement extends the term of the Amended Revolver to October 4, 2021 and the maturity date of the Term Loan to October 4, 2023. The full amount of the Term Loan was borrowed on the closing date, with the proceeds used to repay all outstanding term loan and revolving credit facility borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Amended Revolver under the Amended Credit Agreement was used to fund the November 2016 Acquisition, and is available for working capital requirements and general corporate purposes. Beginning January 1, 2017, the Company will be required to make quarterly repayments under the Term Loan equal to 1.25% of the outstanding balance until January 1, 2019, at which time the quarterly repayments will increase to 2.0% until the remaining balance is due on the October 4, 2023 maturity date. Certain domestic subsidiaries of the Company unconditionally guarantee all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Amended Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are unsecured. The Amended Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type. The Company has to comply with certain financial covenants including minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio as defined within the Amended Credit Agreement. Prior to October 4, 2016, the Company maintained a Credit Agreement which provided for a senior unsecured revolving credit facility (Revolver) in an amount up to $225 million which was scheduled to expire on November 6, 2020. Availability under the Revolver was conditioned upon various customary conditions. The Credit Agreement also provided for senior unsecured delayed draw term loans (Delayed Draw Term Loans) in an aggregate amount up to $75 million which were scheduled to expire on November 6, 2020. The full amount of the Delayed Draw Term Loans was outstanding as of December 31, 2015. Beginning January 1, 2016, the Company began making quarterly repayments equal to 2.5% of the outstanding balance of the Delayed Draw Term Loans, with the remaining balance due on the November 6, 2020 expiration date. Total outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement decreased approximately $11 million from December 31, 2015. Total availability under the Credit Agreement was $195.4 million as of September 30, 2016. Certain domestic subsidiaries of the Company unconditionally guaranteed all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement were unsecured. The Credit Agreement contained customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type. The Company had to comply with certain financial covenants including minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio as defined within the Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Prior to March 31, 2016, Calgon Carbon Japan (CCJ) maintained a Japanese Term Loan and a Japanese Working Capital Loan. These agreements were replaced by a 2.0 billion Japanese Yen unsecured revolving loan facility agreement (Japanese Credit Agreement) which expires on March 24, 2019. The Company is a guarantor of CCJs obligations under the Japanese Credit Agreement. Total availability under the Japanese Credit Agreement was 1.4 billion Japanese Yen or $13.8 million as of September 30, 2016. Refer to Note 5 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on the Companys borrowing arrangements. In December 2013, the Companys Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program with a total of $150 million of purchases authorized. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015, the Company repurchased 518,576 and 1,263,791 shares, respectively, at an average price of $15.81 per share and $18.04 per share, respectively. As of September 30, 2016, the Company had repurchased a total of 4,598,661 shares at an average price of $18.67 per share under this program. All of the above mentioned repurchases were funded from operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings and the shares are held as treasury stock. Subsequent to these repurchases, the Companys remaining authorization to repurchase its common stock is approximately $64.1 million. In April 2016, the Company suspended the activities of the share repurchase program. Dividends on common stock of $0.05 per share were declared and paid in the first, second, and third quarters of 2016 and 2015. In addition, in November 2016, the Companys Board of Directors declared a dividend on common stock of $0.05 per share. 25 Table of Contents The Company currently expects that cash from annual operating activities plus cash balances and available external financing will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months. The cash needs of each of the Companys reporting segments are principally covered by the segments operating cash flow on a standalone basis. Any additional needs will be funded by cash on hand or borrowings under the Companys Amended Credit Agreement, Japanese Credit Agreement, or other credit facilities. Specifically, the Equipment and Consumer segments historically have not required extensive capital expenditures; therefore, the Company believes that cash on hand and borrowings will adequately support each of the segments cash needs. Cash and cash equivalents include $42.8 million and $45.1 million held by the Companys foreign subsidiaries as of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Generally, cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries are not readily available for use in the United States without adverse tax consequences. The Companys principal sources of liquidity are its cash flows from its operating activities or borrowings directly from its lines of credit. The Company does not believe the level of its non-U.S. cash position will have an adverse effect on working capital needs, planned growth, repayment of maturing debt, or benefit plan funding. Capital Expenditures and Investments Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment totaled $23.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 compared to expenditures of $49.2 million for the same period in 2015. The expenditures for the period ended September 30, 2016 were primarily for improvements to manufacturing facilities. The expenditures for the period ended September 30, 2015 were primarily for improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky manufacturing facility of $16.0 million; upgrades to the Tipton plant in the UK of $3.4 million, expenditures of $9.8 million related to the Companys new headquarters facility, which includes the research and development innovation center; and $4.1 million for a SAP re-implementation project. Capital expenditures for 2016 are currently projected to be approximately $30 million to $35 million. The aforementioned expenditures are expected to be funded by operating cash flows, cash on hand and borrowings under existing credit facilities. Proceeds from the sale of assets were $1.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and not significant for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Contractual Obligations The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. As of September 30, 2016, there have been no material changes in the payment terms of these obligations since December 31, 2015. On October 4, 2016, the Company entered into the $400 million Amended Credit Agreement, replacing the $300 million U.S. Credit Agreement that existed as of September 30, 2016. The $100 million Term Loan was borrowed on that date and repaid the amounts that had been borrowed under the Credit Agreement. Refer to Note 5 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on the U.S. Amended Credit Agreement. The Company had previously announced the planned acquisition of the Activated Carbon and Filter Aid Business, which closed on November 2, 2016. The purchase price was funded by borrowings under the Amended Revolver. Refer to Note 15 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on the Companys acquisition. Contingencies The Company is involved in various legal proceedings, lawsuits and claims, including employment, product warranty and environmental matters of a nature considered normal to its business. It is the Companys policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the loss amount is reasonably estimable. Refer to Note 11 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on recently issued accounting guidance. 26 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies There were no material changes to the Companys critical accounting policies as disclosed in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Outlook Activated Carbon and Service The Companys estimate, as of the beginning of 2016, of a 7% compound annual growth rate for the activated carbon market for the period 2015 through 2020 is predicated on significant demand for mercury removal carbons in North America primarily driven by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys (EPA) regulations surrounding Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) and growing demand in activated carbon usage in China. While there have been noted increases in the demand for activated carbon in China, the recent economic slowdown in China may lead to lower than previously forecasted demand. Other impediments to near-term growth could include an economic slowdown in any or all of the regions served, impacts from delays in environmental regulations or the impact of the strength of the U.S. dollar. Through a series of initiatives that began in 2012, including additional capital investment; plant efficiency studies; and, product rationalization, the Company has successfully increased its virgin carbon manufacturing capacity from an estimated 140 million pounds per year to approximately 163 million pounds per year. In addition, over this same timeframe, the Company has been promoting its reactivation offerings to U.S. drinking water customers. By optimizing the available activated carbon reactivation capacity, the Company is able to effectively increase its virgin activated carbon pounds available for other growth opportunities. The Company believes that fair pricing for activated carbon in the United States of America is being achieved via the application of a tariff imposed on Chinese steam activated carbon. Under the anti-dumping rules, importers of steam activated carbon from China are potentially required to pay anti-dumping duties. The United States Department of Commerce (Commerce Department) conducts reviews in order to determine whether changes (increases or decreases) should be made to the anti-dumping tariff rate applicable to any foreign exporter. These retrospective reviews occur annually while the anti-dumping duty order (the order) is in effect (the current order is scheduled to expire in March 2018). Refer to Note 11 of the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. Raw material costs for production in 2016 are expected to be comparable to 2015. The most significant raw material cost is coal. The quantity of coal consumed varies based on the overall production levels achieved as well as the mix of products manufactured during the year. As of September 30, 2016, the Company has approximately 93% of its anticipated coal requirements for the remainder of 2016 under contract or in inventory. The Company has established itself as a market leading supplier of powdered activated carbon (PAC) in North America for the removal of mercury from the flue gas of coal-fired power plants, a significant market that is expected to complete its formation in 2016. Based on standard carbon products, the Company estimates the annual demand for mercury removal in North America is now 250 million to 350 million pounds. However, long-term persistent low natural gas prices along with atypical weather conditions could unfavorably impact this estimated market size. The Companys advanced products for mercury removal which can have carbon usage rates of 50% to 90% less than alternative products, are important to its ongoing success in this market. Bidding activity with electric utilities, whose contracts for PAC have or will expire in 2016, or that received extensions from the April 2015 MATS compliance date, and were required to begin complying in April 2016, remains active and is resulting in the receipt of many new orders for the Companys FLUEPAC products. The Companys expectation is that its ongoing share of the value of this market will be at least 30%. In addition to mercury regulations in North America, China has announced plans for mercury removal from its coal-fired power plants. The plans, as announced, stipulate levels of mercury removal that would not likely result in large activated carbon sales. However, trials will purportedly be conducted to establish removal requirements. Treatment of municipal drinking water remains a long term growth area for the Company. Increased public awareness of the presence and human health impacts of man-made chemicals and naturally occurring contaminants in drinking water is expected to contribute to continued growth of the Companys municipal drinking water business. With this awareness, 27 Table of Contents there has been an increased demand for safe drinking water in communities around the United States. Chemicals from industrial processes can contaminate groundwater wells; many of these chemicals are currently unregulated. While the EPA may regulate these contaminants in the future, the Company has seen recent activity at the local level that demonstrates that communities are demanding drinking water that is free from contaminants regardless of the current regulatory status of those contaminants. Chemical releases that impact sources of drinking water highlight the need for utilities to provide barrier defenses against such events in both groundwater and surface water. Granular activated carbon (GAC) is an ideal technology for this purpose and the Company expects utilities to look to install GAC to provide protection against spills and contamination. Most recently, concern regarding the presence of perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) in groundwater drinking water sources has led to an increase in both inquiries and orders from numerous utilities as well as remediation projects across the U.S. In May 2016, after a large number of community water systems found PFC contamination in drinking water sources, the U.S. EPA issued a health advisory limit for PFOA and PFOS, the two most common long chain PFCs. Many utilities have measured PFC levels above the EPA health advisory limit, resulting in do not drink alerts in many communities. As a result, the Company has many active projects across the country related to PFC removal and will continue to pursue additional work in this area. In a similar vein, 1,2,3-Trichloropropane (1,2,3-TCP) in groundwater has become a major issue in California, New York, and New Jersey, and the Company has received an equipment order in New Jersey and is presently handling inquiries for several more. Harmful algal blooms can also present a human health risk to community drinking water supplies; both GAC and PAC have been used successfully to protect against the intrusion of algal toxins in drinking water systems. Use of GAC can protect water treatment plants from the harmful effects of algal bloom toxicity, while increased dosing of PAC can also help when algal blooms are detected. Another important driver of recent growth (2009 through 2016) was the reduction of Disinfection Byproducts (DBPs). DBPs are compounds that form when naturally occurring organic materials in drinking water sources react with disinfection chemicals. GAC is recognized by the EPA as a best available control technology (BACT) for the reduction of DBPs in drinking water. While the expansion of GAC adoption related to the EPAs Stage 2 Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproducts Rule (the DBP Rule) has slowed, the Company expects to see new business over the next several years as municipalities continue with the DBP Rule compliance activities. There is potential for new DBP GAC installations related to two areas. First, mostly medium and small water utilities who have not achieved compliance with the DBP Rule could adopt GAC for DBP control. Second, utilities that currently use alternative disinfectants, such as chloramines, as their primary means to comply with Stage 2 may adopt GAC/chlorine for DBP Rule compliance. Disinfection with chloramines can result in the formation of emerging classes of DBPs, many of which are not yet regulated but are under study by the EPA. The EPA has now begun its Six Year Review of the DBP Rule, and a new Stage 3 Rule, which could drive additional GAC sales. Although we do not expect a DBP Stage 3 rule limiting the use of chloramines or the DBPs formed by chloramine disinfection to go into effect for a number of years, the volume of GAC required to meet these needs could be significant. We estimate that the municipal water systems in nine of the largest cities in the U.S. that currently use chloramines to meet their DBP Stage 2 compliance requirements would need initial installations, in the aggregate, of approximately 330 million pounds of GAC. Once on line, these new installations would require periodic replacement or reactivation to meet their water treatment needs. Some of these utilities are already involved in studies or pilot test programs to evaluate the use of GAC to meet their DBP treatment needs. It is possible that some of these, or other municipalities that are treating for DBPs using chloramines, will choose to switch to GAC prior to the issuance of a DBP Stage 3 regulation. Since 2014, the Company has noticed an increase in the time between GAC exchange and reactivation services by customers who are relatively new to using GAC for treating DBP precursors. As utilities gain experience in using GAC as part of their overall treatment process, they are optimizing all of the unit operations, including operation of GAC filters to minimize the overall drinking water treatment costs. In the short term this has reduced the volume of the reactivation exchange market from our previous expectations. However, these full-scale drinking water treatment operations demonstrate that GAC provides effective DBP protection for longer periods of time than originally believed, confirming the favorable economics of GAC with custom municipal reactivation (CMR). In fact, the Company can use an updated model that comprehends the elongated exchange frequency to show that using GAC is an even less expensive solution than previously thought. The Company believes use of this information could enhance our ability to convert some of the approximately 8,000 largest municipal water systems in North America to adopt the use of GAC with CMR services for their water treatment needs. As such, the Company expects that the use of GAC by municipalities for treating their water supplies for DBPs or other contaminants, and the Companys related CMR services, will continue to increase. 28 Table of Contents As more municipalities move to install GAC for the various reasons mentioned, the Company expects to see growth in its CMR service business. In many cases, municipalities engage in a long term plan for CMR services at the time of their initial fill of GAC. In other circumstances, customers convert to the use of CMR services, rather than replacing spent carbon with virgin GAC, due to the affordability of this process. Reactivation also eliminates the potential liability for customers associated with disposing of spent activated carbon contaminants, for example for PFC and 1,2,3-TCP applications. Customers can engage in reactivation services through multi-year contracts or through a periodic bidding process at the time the service is required. In Europe, the Company has a multi-year contract with a large water provider in the United Kingdom (UK) and will supply virgin carbon and reactivation services for up to the remaining seven year period from its upgraded Tipton plant in the UK. The plant returned to operation with the additional capacity and planned upgrades during the first quarter of 2016. China had also announced that it will commit billions of dollars to water and wastewater improvements. Investments are underway, but have been slower than anticipated. The Company continues to monitor this situation closely. China has also tightened the regulations for VOC emissions, which is resulting in new reactivation opportunities. Equipment The Companys equipment business is somewhat cyclical in nature and depends on both regulations and the general health of the overall economy. The Company believes that global demand for its ultraviolet light (UV) systems will continue for a variety of applications including drinking water, waste water, and advanced oxidation. The Company also believes that demand for its ballast water treatment systems will grow. The U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) issued its ballast water treatment rule on March 23, 2012 (Coast Guard Rule). The Coast Guard Rule addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water and ultimately requires U.S. Type Approval for treatment systems used in U.S. waters. Ships wishing to release ballast water into U.S. waters must operate an acceptable treatment system on all ships built after December 1, 2013; on medium ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2014; and, on small and large ballast water capacity ships after their first dry-dock after January 1, 2016. Ship operators can seek an extension of the aforementioned compliance dates from the USCG by citing the lack of availability of U.S. Type Approved ballast water treatment systems. As of August 26, 2016, 10,519 such extensions have been granted to operators that otherwise would have been required to purchase ballast water treatment equipment under the Rule. The granting of these extensions despite the existence of acceptable but not yet U.S. Type Approved systems (like the Hyde GUARDIAN) has had a dampening effect on the market. The Coast Guard Rules discharge limits match the numerical limits proposed by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) but the USCG is more prescriptive as to testing methodology than is the IMO. The only test method currently referenced in the Coast Guard Rule cannot measure the effectiveness of UV based systems like the Companys Hyde GUARDIAN and the other best selling systems. In December 2015, the USCG decided it would not allow the Company, and several other manufacturers of ultraviolet light-based ballast water treatment systems, to use the Most Probable Number (MPN) test method for purposes of testing the Companys system to apply for type approval under USCG regulations. The Company appealed this decision and was informed by the USCG in July 2016 that its appeal was denied. While the Company will continue to push for Congressional intervention to allow the Company to use the MPN method for testing its product, the Company is also considering testing its system using the current USCG test methods. This would cause the Company to invest time and incur additional expense to run additional tests and to potentially modify certain aspects of its system. The Company believes these actions would allow it to effectively compete in the market for ballast water treatment systems for vessels discharging ballast water in U.S. waterways and ports. However, the Companys ability to compete in this market could be adversely impacted if the company is unsuccessful in meeting USCG testing requirements. There are five Independent Laboratories (IL) approved by the USCG to work with manufacturers in the Type Approval process: NSF International (NSF), located in Ann Arbor, Michigan; Det Norske Veritas (DNV) AS, located in Hovik, Norway; Korean Register of Shipping, located in Busan, Korea; Control Union Certifications BV located in the Netherlands; and Lloyds Register EMEA located in the United Kingdom. The ILs have begun working with manufacturers on testing for U.S. Type Approval a process that is expected to take from one to three years. In the interim, ships may discharge ballast water in U.S. ports for a period of five years after their original compliance date if they operate a ballast water treatment system that has been designated as an Alternate Management System (AMS) by the USCG. To qualify for this status, the equipment supplier must possess an international Type Approval, and must 29 Table of Contents demonstrate to the USCG that the equipment performs at least as well as ballast water exchange. The Company was granted AMS status for its Hyde GUARDIAN ballast water treatment system effective April 15, 2013. In 2004, the IMO adopted the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (BWMC) which, like the Coast Guard Rule, addresses the transportation of potentially harmful organisms through ballast water. The regulations requiring ballast water treatment will become effective one year after 30 countries representing 35% of the worlds shipping tonnage ratify the BWMC. The BWMC was ratified on September 8, 2016 by Finland, bringing the number of countries to 52 and tonnage to 35.14%. The BWMC will enter into force on September 8, 2017 and coupled with the Coast Guard Rule, will require an estimated 64,000 vessels to install ballast water treatment systems. The Company believes that the total ballast water treatment market for equipment will approximate $18 billion to $28 billion. Factors influencing the size of the market include pricing; the number of vessels to be retrofit; the number of manufacturers who are ultimately able to effectively serve this market; and, ongoing uncertainties surrounding the USCG type approval process. The Hyde GUARDIAN system, which employs filtration and ultraviolet light technology to filter and disinfect ballast water, offers cost, safety, and technological advantages. Hyde GUARDIAN has received Type Approval from Lloyds Register on behalf of the U.K. Maritime and Coast Guard Agency which confirms compliance with the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention. Hyde GUARDIAN has also received Class Society Type Approval from Lloyds Register (LR), American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), and Russian Maritime Registry of Shipping (RS). The strategic acquisition of Hyde Marine provided the Company immediate entry into a global, regulation driven market with major long-term growth potential. To date, most of the Hyde GUARDIAN systems sold have been for new ship builds but long term, most of Hydes sales are expected to be for systems retrofitted into existing ships. The number of new ship builds has declined and the retrofit market for ballast water equipment has been slow to ramp up owing to the delay in ratification of the IMO BWMC and the aforementioned USCG extensions. However, post-IMO ratification, quote activity is approaching three times recent levels. Backlog for the Equipment segment as of September 30, 2016 was $10.2 million, while backlog as of December 31, 2015 was $18.5 million. Consumer The Companys Consumer segment supplies activated carbon cloth for use in medical, military and specialty applications. The Company anticipates future growth in medical applications for wound care as its cloth aids in the healing process while providing odor control. The Company recently began to focus additional marketing and sales resources to this area of its business, and expects to see modest annual growth in 2016. Acquisition The Company completed its acquisition of the Activated Carbon and Filter Aid Business on November 2, 2016 and paid 140.7 million Euros, or $153.0 million in cash and assumed certain liabilities of 6.5 million Euros, or $7.1 million. The Company has financed the transaction through borrowings under the Amended Revolver. Future consolidated financial statements of the Company will include the results of operations of the acquired business from the date of the acquisition. The Company is determining the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. Based on the Companys review of historical financial statements, the Company expects the Acquisition to generate revenue of approximately $14 million to $16 million between the November 2, 2016 closing date and the end of 2016. In addition, the Company expects to incur selling, general and administrative expenses related to transaction of $5 million to $6 million during the fourth quarter of 2016.