Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: Overview On November 2, 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of the wood-based activated carbon, reactivation and mineral-based filtration media business of CECA, a subsidiary of Arkema Group (New Business). Due to the complementary nature of the New Business products and market applications to those of the Company, and its significant exposure to less regulated, more traditional end markets, the addition of the New Business to the Company creates a more balanced global platform from which the Company can continue to grow by leveraging its now expanded capabilities in the global activated carbon and adjacent filtration media market areas. The Company reported net income of $13.8 million or $0.27 per diluted share for 2016, as compared to net income of $43.5 million or $0.82 per diluted share for 2015. Net sales decreased $20.8 million or 3.9% in 2016 as compared to 2015. Without the $12.1 million net sales of the New Business for the two month period in 2016, net sales would have declined $32.9 million or 6.1% in 2016 as compared to 2015. The total negative impact of foreign currency translation due to a stronger U.S. dollar in the United Kingdom and China, partially offset by a weaker U.S. dollar in Japan on consolidated net sales was $2.8 million. The Companys results were impacted by acquisition related costs, a slowing global economy and the negative impact of a strong U.S. dollar. The Company continued to increase shareholder value through its common stock dividend program and its open market share repurchase program through April 2016. Results of Operations 2016 Versus 2015 Net sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment decreased $32.0 million or 6.6% from 2015. Included in this change was the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $1.8 million. Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales Foreign Net of Foreign (Dollars in millions) As Reported Currency Impact Currency Impact Environmental Air market $ (10.8) $ (0.6) $ (11.4) Environmental Water market (14.2) (0.6) (14.8) Food and Beverage market (3.1) (3.1) Industrial market (5.1) (5.1) Potable Water market (3.7) 1.9 (1.8) Specialty Carbon market 6.4 1.0 7.4 Other (1.5) 0.1 (1.4) Total Activated Carbon and Service $ (32.0) $ 1.8 $ (30.2) Contributing to the year over year decline was lower demand in the Environmental Air market resulting from a legacy customer that was using standard product and switched suppliers in 2016 as well as a number of coal-fired electric generation units permanently changing over to gas fired units due to very low natural gas prices. In addition, the unseasonably warmer winter weather conditions in the early part of the year coupled with the low natural gas prices reduced the operational requirements of certain customers coal-fired electric generating units in 2016. This decline was partially offset by an increase in demand for activated carbon pellets for treating sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions. The Environmental Water market was negatively impacted by a customer plant closure in Asia, along with a decline in industrial environmental activity due to a slow economy and large orders in 2015 that did not repeat in 2016. Lower demand in the Industrial and the Food and Beverage markets was largely due to soft economic conditions, customers optimizing their processes resulting in a rationalization of carbon usage, and a general slowness in project related activity. An increase in the Specialty Carbon market for metal recovery carbon products in the Americas and for respirator carbon products in Asia partially offset the decline in the other markets. 25 Table of Contents Net sales for the Equipment segment declined slightly as compared to 2015. Foreign currency translation effects in the Equipment segment were not significant. Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) in Net Sales Carbon adsorption equipment $ 5.9 Ballast water treatment systems (4.9) Traditional ultraviolet light systems (0.3) Ion exchange systems (1.1) Total Equipment $ (0.4) Net sales for ballast water treatment systems were lower due to continued regulatory delays and a decline in sales of equipment to offshore service vessels, the demand from which has been impacted by ongoing low oil prices. In addition, sales of ion exchange equipment were lower due to several large projects in 2015 that did not repeat in 2016. These declines were offset by several large projects for carbon adsorption equipment, including $3.3 million related to treatment of perfluorinated compounds in drinking water, in 2016 as compared to the prior year. Net sales for the Consumer segment decreased $0.5 million or 5.1% from 2015 as higher demand for defense application products was more than offset by the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $0.9 million due to the weaker British Pound Sterling. Net sales of $12.1 million related to the New Business subsequent to the acquisition in November 2016 were reported in Other. Refer to additional discussion of the acquisition in Notes 18 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percentage of net sales, was 32.6% for 2016 compared to 35.8% for the comparable 2015 period, a 3.2 percentage point or $16.5 million decrease. Approximately $11.3 million of this decrease resulted from a decline in the volume of higher margin products, including FLUEPAC products for mercury removal coupled with an increase in volume of lower margin products compared to the prior year. The Company incurred higher post retirement costs of approximately $0.9 million for the U.S. plans in 2016 as compared to 2015. In 2015, the Company benefited from refunds for import duties paid of $1.3 million which did not repeat in the 2016 period. A business interruption insurance settlement of $0.9 million received in 2016 provided a partial offset to the aforementioned items, all of which primarily impacted the Activated Carbon and Service segment. In addition, the Equipment segment incurred higher warranty costs of approximately $1.2 million in 2016 as compared to the prior year. Also contributing to the decline was $1.5 million of additional costs related to the inventory fair value step up, and $1.0 million in costs related to scheduled plant maintenance outages at certain of the New Business production facilities reported in Other. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased $2.6 million in 2016 as compared to 2015. The increase was primarily due to higher depreciation expense related to the completion of several large projects such as the improvement and upgrades to the Companys manufacturing facilities, the new headquarters facility, and the SAP re-implementation project and $1.4 million incurred by the New Business reported in Other for the two month period ended December 31, 2016. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $15.0 million or 17.7% in 2016 as compared to 2015. During 2016, $13.4 million of additional transaction costs related to the acquisition of the New Business have been incurred with approximately half in the Activated Carbon and Service segment and half in Other. The Company experienced higher employee related costs of $0.8 million, of which $0.7 million was a result of higher pension settlement costs in 2016 versus the comparable period in 2015, primarily impacting the Activated Carbon and Services segment. These increases were partially offset by outside consulting services incurred in 2015, largely related to the SAP re-implementation project, which did not repeat, but were partially offset by other project costs in 2016. In addition, 2016 expenses included $1.7 million incurred by the New Business for the two month period ended December 31, 2016 reported in Other. Research and development expenses decreased $1.0 million in 2016 versus the comparable 2015 period. This decrease was largely due to expenses related to the Companys new research and development innovation center that were incurred in 2015 but did not repeat in 2016. 26 Table of Contents Interest income in 2016 was comparable to 2015. Interest expense increased $1.6 million in 2016 as compared to 2015 due to an increase in the average outstanding borrowings under the Companys debt agreements resulting from the Companys purchase of the New Business, coupled with slightly higher interest rates in 2016. The additional expense of $1.5 million in other income (expense) for 2016 as compared to 2015 was largely related to foreign exchange and income reported in 2015 for a decline in the earn-out liability related to a 2010 acquisition that did not repeat in 2016. The income tax provision for 2016 was $6.3 million as compared to $19.9 million in 2015. The income tax provision decreased $13.6 million in 2016 as compared to 2015 predominately due to a decline in pre-tax earnings. The effective tax rate for 2016 was 31.3% compared to 31.4% for the similar 2015 period. The 2016 effective rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate mainly due to the mix of income throughout foreign jurisdictions, the majority of which was related to China, the UK and Singapore, which reduced the rate by 6.5%. The decrease of the 2016 rate was partially offset by state income taxes which increased the overall 2016 tax rate by 2.9%. In addition, the 2016 rate was increased by 3.2% for permanent items including non-deductible transaction costs in the U.S. This increase was partially offset by the benefit realized from the enactment of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code Section 987 Treasury Regulations, which were finalized and issued on December 7, 2016. The benefit realized from the issuance of the final regulations reduced the 2016 rate by 2.7%. 2015 Versus 2014 Net sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment decreased $11.7 million or 2.3% from 2014. Included in this change was the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $21.9 million. Increase (Decrease) in Net Sales Foreign Net of Foreign (Dollars in millions) As Reported Currency Impact Currency Impact Environmental Air market $ 27.0 $ 2.6 $ 29.6 Environmental Water market (4.4) 4.3 (0.1) Food and Beverage market (10.8) 4.0 (6.8) Industrial market (6.1) 3.8 (2.3) Potable Water market (14.9) 5.7 (9.2) Specialty Carbon market (4.4) 1.2 (3.2) Other 1.9 0.3 2.2 Total Activated Carbon and Service $ (11.7) $ 21.9 $ 10.2 The decrease in net sales for the Activated Carbon and Service segment is principally due to the negative impact of foreign currency translation. Absent the negative impact of foreign currency, sales for the Activated Carbon and Service Segment increased in 2015 as compared to 2014. The increase was principally due to higher sales in the Americas Environmental Air market of approximately $29.5 million due to additional sales volume as a result of customers complying with mercury removal regulations promulgated by 19 states and certain Canadian provinces, as well as the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards. This increase was partially offset by the decline in the Americas Food and Beverage market due to certain non-repeat orders and Americas Specialty market due to continued lower demand for respirators from the U.S. government. In addition, the Asian Potable Water market declined approximately $8.2 million primarily due to certain large orders in 2014 that did not repeat in 2015, along with a softer growth rate. Net sales for the Equipment segment decreased $6.0 million or 13.3% from 2014. Foreign currency translation effect in the Equipment segment was $0.3 million. 27 Table of Contents Increase (Decrease) (Dollars in millions) in Net Sales Carbon adsorption equipment $ (3.6) Ballast water treatment systems (3.4) Traditional ultraviolet light systems Ion exchange systems 1.3 Total Equipment $ (6.0) The decline in sales was due to lower demand for carbon adsorption equipment resulting from the completion of projects for installations for certain customers related to the initial Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproducts Rule and a decline in project related discretionary spending as well as lower sales for ballast water treatment systems due to continued regulatory delays and a decline in sales of our equipment to offshore service vessels, the demand from which has been impacted by ongoing low oil prices. This decline was partially offset by the higher sales for ion exchange systems. Net sales in the Consumer segment decreased $2.4 million or 20.8% from 2014 due to higher demand from a single customer in 2014 that did not repeat in 2015, as well as the negative impact of foreign currency translation which totaled $0.6 million for the Consumer segment. Net sales less cost of products sold (excluding depreciation and amortization), as a percentage of net sales, was 35.8% for 2015 compared to 34.6% in 2014, a 1.2 percentage point or $6.4 million increase which was primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Approximately $3.0 million of this improvement resulted from higher margin products sold, including FLUEPAC products for mercury removal, coupled with a decline in volume of lower margin products. The Companys cost improvement programs, including lower coal costs of approximately $2.2 million, primarily from two long-term coal contracts, contributed to margin improvement in all geographic regions. In addition, the Company benefited from refunds for import duties paid of approximately $1.3 million under the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015 pertaining to purchases of coconut carbons. In the Equipment segment, improved margins on projects in progress contributed approximately $0.5 million to the improvement as compared to the prior year. The Companys cost of products sold excludes depreciation and amortization; therefore it may not be comparable to that of other companies. Depreciation and amortization increased by $5.0 million or 16.4% in 2015 as compared to 2014. The increases were primarily due to higher depreciation expense related to improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky virgin carbon manufacturing facility and the July 2015 completion of the SAP re-implementation project. Also contributing to the increase was accelerated depreciation expense of approximately $3.0 million in 2015 related to certain assets that have been or will be replaced as the result of new projects, including the Companys SAP re-implementation project. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $4.0 million or 4.9% in 2015 as compared to 2014. The increase was due to costs related to an SAP re-implementation project which commenced in January 2014 aimed at improving functionality of the Companys enterprise resource planning system of approximately $1.0 million. The Company re-implemented SAP as of July 1, 2015. In addition, outside consulting services increased by $4.4 million. The Company experienced higher employee related costs of $2.0 million, of which $0.7 million was a result of higher pension costs. Partially offsetting these increases, which were primarily in the Activated Carbon and Service segment, was the positive impact of foreign currency translation of $3.1 million due to the stronger U.S. dollar which was also primarily within the Activated Carbon and Service segment. Selling, general and administrative expenses declined in the Equipment segment by $0.4 million in 2015 as compared to 2014, as a result of successful cost improvements, including a reduction in headcount. Research and development expenses were comparable in 2015 as compared to 2014. The Company recorded $0.3 million of restructuring income in 2014 which represents reductions in the estimated accrual and a pre-tax gain for the sale of a warehouse in Belgium. Interest income was comparable in 2015 versus 2014. Interest expense increased $0.5 million in 2015 as compared to 2014 due to an increase in the outstanding borrowings under the Companys debt agreements. 28 Table of Contents The additional income in other expense net of $1.2 million for 2015 as compared to 2014 was largely related to foreign exchange. The income tax provision for 2015 was $19.9 million as compared to $23.1 million in 2014. For 2015, tax expense decreased approximately $3.2 million compared to 2014 predominately due to a decrease in pre-tax earnings of $9.1 million. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company completed a U.S. research and development tax credit study for the prior years 2012 2014. The Company recognized a benefit of $1.1 million related to the research and development credit. Compared to 2014, the Companys state income taxes decreased by $0.5 million related to state apportionment changes. The 2014 tax expense includes a net $1.4 million benefit related to a completed Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examination and the effective settlement and release of uncertain tax positions. The effective tax rate for 2015 was 31.4% compared to 31.9% for the similar 2014 period. The 2015 effective rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate mainly due to the mix of income throughout foreign jurisdictions, the majority of which was related to the UK and Singapore, which reduced the rate 3.1%. The aforementioned research and development credit reduced the 2015 effective tax rate by 1.7%. The decrease of the 2015 rate was partially offset by state income taxes which increased the overall 2015 tax rate by 1.8%. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has had sufficient financial resources to meet its operating requirements and to fund capital spending, the acquisition, dividend payments, share repurchases and pension plans. Cash flows provided by operating activities were $69.0 million in 2016, as compared to $69.9 million in 2015. Net cash flow was comparable between the two periods as a net favorable working capital change offset the lower operating results in 2016. Cash flows provided by operating activities declined in 2015 as compared to $84.3 million in 2014 primarily due to unfavorable working capital changes from higher inventories. The Company made contributions to its pension plans, which included $0.6 million and $1.2 million of discretionary contributions to the U.S. pension plans during 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company received $0.6 million and $1.8 million in 2016 and 2014, respectively, of proceeds related to government grants in Asia and Europe. Grants related to income were reported within operating activities, while grants related to assets were reported as cash flows from investing activities. Refer to Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Cash flows used in investing activities increased significantly in 2016 as compared to 2015 and 2014 as a result of the acquisition of the New Business for $153.6 million, net of cash acquired. Refer to Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for further information. Capital expenditures were $31.9 million, $62.3 million, and $63.5 million, in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Expenditures for 2016 were primarily for improvements to manufacturing facilities. Expenditures for 2015 included $19.3 million for improvements to the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky manufacturing facility, $5.8 million of upgrades to the Tipton plant in the UK, expenditures of $11.3 million related to the Companys new headquarters facility, which includes the research and development innovation center; and $4.1 million for a SAP re-implementation project. Expenditures for 2014 included $48.9 million for improvements to manufacturing facilities including approximately $38.6 million for the Companys Catlettsburg, Kentucky and Pearlington, Mississippi facilities, along with expenditures for a SAP re-implementation project of approximately $6.2 million. Capital expenditures for 2017, which includes expected spending for the upgrade of the Companys Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania reactivation plant and the New Business, are currently projected to be approximately $70 million to $80 million. The aforementioned expenditures are expected to be funded by operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings. Proceeds for sales of property, plant and equipment were $1.2 million in 2016 and not significant in 2015 or 2014. Cash flows provided by financing activities increased significantly in 2016 as compared to 2015 and 2014 as a result of the incremental borrowings required under the Company's debt arrangements to fund the acquisition of the New Business. On October 4, 2016, the Company entered into the First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (Amended Credit Agreement) which amended the Companys existing U.S. Credit Agreement (Credit Agreement). The Amended Credit 29 Table of Contents Agreement increases the Companys total borrowing capacity to $400 million, comprised of a $300 million revolving credit facility (Amended Revolver) and a $100 million term loan facility (Term Loan). The Amended Credit Agreement extends the term of the Amended Revolver to October 4, 2021 and the maturity date of the Term Loan to October 4, 2023. The full amount of the Term Loan was borrowed on the closing date, with the proceeds used to repay all outstanding term loan and revolving credit facility borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Amended Revolver was used to fund the acquisition of the New Business, and is available for working capital requirements and general corporate purposes. The total debt outstanding increased $113.6 million in 2016 as a result of the acquisition of the New Business. Total availability under the Amended Credit Agreement was $172.5 million as of December 31, 2016. Beginning January 1, 2017, the Company will be required to make quarterly repayments under the Term Loan equal to 1.25% of the outstanding balance until January 1, 2019, at which time the quarterly repayments will increase to 2.0% until the remaining balance is due on the October 4, 2023 maturity date. Certain domestic subsidiaries of the Company unconditionally guarantee all indebtedness and obligations related to borrowings under the Amended Credit Agreement. The Companys obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are unsecured. The Amended Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type. The Company has to comply with certain financial covenants including minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio as defined within the Amended Credit Agreement. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants as of December 31, 2016. In February 2017, an amendment was signed to the Amended Credit Agreement, which, among other things, removes the quarterly leverage ratio requirement for the Company to pay dividends to its stockholders and replaces it with an annual dividend dollar restriction of $14.0 million. On March 24, 2016, Calgon Carbon Japan (CCJ) entered into a 2.0 billion Japanese Yen unsecured revolving loan facility agreement (Japanese Credit Agreement) which expires on March 24, 2019. The Company is jointly and severally liable as the guarantor of CCJs obligations under the Japanese Credit Agreement. Total availability under the Japanese Credit Agreement was 2.0 billion Japanese Yen as of December 31, 2016. Refer to Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details on the Companys borrowing arrangements. In December 2013, the Companys Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program with a total of $150 million of purchases authorized. As of December 31, 2016, the Company had repurchased a total of 4,598,661 shares at an average price of $18.67 per share under this program. All of the above mentioned repurchases were funded from operating cash flows, cash on hand, and borrowings and the shares are held as treasury stock. Subsequent to these repurchases, the Companys remaining authorization to repurchase its common stock is approximately $64.1 million. In April 2016, the Company suspended the activities of the share repurchase program. On February 18, 2015, the Companys Board of Directors reinstated its common stock dividend program. Quarterly dividends of $0.05 per share were declared and paid in each of the four quarters for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. No common stock dividends were declared or paid in 2014. In addition, in February 2017, a common stock dividend of $0.05 per share was declared. Dividend declaration and payout are at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Future dividends will depend on the Companys earnings, cash flows, capital investment plans to pursue long-term growth opportunities, and share repurchases, if any. The Company currently expects that cash from operating activities plus cash balances and available external financing will be sufficient to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months. The cash needs of each of the Companys reporting segments are principally covered by the segments operating cash flow on a standalone basis. Any additional needs will be funded by cash on hand or borrowings under the Companys credit facilities. The Equipment and Consumer segments historically have not required extensive capital expenditures. The Company believes that operating cash flows, cash on hand and borrowings will adequately support each of the segments cash needs. Cash and cash equivalents include $27.4 million and $45.1 million held by the Companys foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Generally, cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries are not 30 Table of Contents readily available for use in the U.S. without adverse tax consequences. The Companys principal sources of liquidity are its cash flows from its operating activities or borrowings directly from its credit facilities. The Company does not believe the level of its non-U.S. cash position will have an adverse effect on working capital needs, planned growth, repayment of maturing debt, or benefit plan funding. Contractual Obligations The Company is obligated to make future payments under various contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. The following table represents the significant contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments of the Company as of December 31, 2016: Payments due by period (Dollars in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Long-term debt, including current portion $ 225,000 $ 5,000 $ 13,000 $ 141,000 $ 66,000 Interest (1) 28,700 5,693 10,953 9,369 2,685 Operating leases 41,320 8,174 9,958 4,651 18,537 Unconditional purchase obligations (2) 47,792 21,375 24,790 1,627 Total contractual cash obligations $ 342,812 $ 40,242 $ 58,701 $ 156,647 $ 87,222 (1) As of December 31, 2016, the weighted average effective interest rate was approximately 2.56% on the Companys total borrowings of $225.0 million. The Companys debt carries variable interest rates. The interest amounts have been estimated based on the applicable interest rate per annum as of December 31, 2016, and the outstanding debt balances as of December 31, 2016, adjusted for the future required repayments shown above. (2) Primarily for the purchase of raw materials and information systems and services. The long-term tax payable of $0.9 million, pertaining to the tax liability related to the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, has been excluded from the above table due to the fact that the Company is unable to determine the period in which the liability will be resolved. The Company does not have any special-purpose entities. The Company maintains qualified defined benefit pension plans, which cover certain non-union and union employees in the U.S. and Europe. The fair value of the Companys pension plan assets has decreased slightly to $116.2 million as of December 31, 2016 from $118.7 million as of December 31, 2015. During 2016 and 2015, the Company made lump sum payments of $5.2 million and $3.8 million, respectively, to certain eligible terminated vested participants. The Pension Protection Act, passed into law in August 2006, prescribes a new methodology for determining the minimum amount that must be contributed to U.S. defined benefit pension plans which began in 2008. During the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, the Company funded its pension plans with $2.4 million and $3.1 million in contributions. The Company expects that it will be required, in accordance with its funding policy, to fund the plans with approximately $4.6 million in contributions for the year ending December 31, 2017. The Company may make additional contributions to the plans in 2017 beyond the required funding. Additional voluntary contributions would be dependent upon, among other things, the Companys ongoing operating results and liquidity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Companys off-balance sheet arrangements include the operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations disclosed above as well as letters of credit and guarantees as discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Contingencies The Company is involved in various legal proceedings, lawsuits and claims, including employment, product warranty and environmental matters of a nature considered normal to its business. It is the Companys policy to accrue for amounts related to these legal matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the loss amount is reasonably estimable. Refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for further details. 31 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Management of the Company has evaluated the accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements and related footnotes and believes the policies to be reasonable and appropriate. The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make judgments, estimates, and assumptions regarding uncertainties that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Management uses historical experience and all available information to make these judgments and estimates, and actual results will inevitably differ from those estimates and assumptions that are used to prepare the Companys financial statements at any given time. Despite these inherent limitations, management believes that Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) and the financial statements and related footnotes provide a meaningful and fair perspective of the Company. The following are the Companys critical accounting policies impacted by managements judgments, assumptions, and estimates. Management believes that the application of these policies on a consistent basis enables the Company to provide the users of the financial statements with useful and reliable information about the Companys operating results and financial condition. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue and related costs when goods are shipped or services are rendered to customers provided that ownership, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists and risk of loss have passed to the customer, the price to the customer is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Revenue for major equipment projects is recognized under the percentage of completion method. The Companys major equipment projects generally have a long project life cycle from bid solicitation to project completion. The nature of the contracts are generally fixed price with milestone billings. The Company recognizes revenue for these projects based on the fixed sales prices multiplied by the percentage of completion. In applying the percentage of completion method, a projects percent complete as of any balance sheet date is computed as the ratio of total costs incurred to date divided by the total estimated costs at completion. As changes in the estimates of total costs at completion and/or estimated total losses on projects are identified, appropriate earnings adjustments are recorded during the period that the change is identified. The Company has a history of making reasonably dependable estimates of costs at completion on contracts that follow the percentage of completion method; however, due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual project costs at completion could vary from their estimates. The principal components of costs include material, direct labor, subcontracts, and allocated indirect costs. Indirect costs primarily consist of administrative labor and associated operating expenses, which are allocated to the respective projects on actual hours charged to the project utilizing a standard hourly rate. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Identifiable intangible assets acquired in business combinations are recorded based on their fair values at the date of acquisition. In accordance with guidance within ASC 350 Intangibles Goodwill and Other goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but must be evaluated for impairment. On November 2, 2016, the Company completed the acquisition of the New Business. The transaction was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC 805 Business Combinations. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded based on their fair value at the acquisition date, with excess consideration paid over the net assets acquired recorded as goodwill. The fair value was determined based on the preliminary acquisition valuation which included the use of estimates based on information available to the Company. As a result of the acquisition, the Company has recorded various intangible assets, including trade names and trademarks, unpatented technology, and customer relationships. The trade names and trademarks acquired have indefinite lives, while all remaining acquired identifiable intangible assets have finite lives. The goodwill associated with the acquisition of the New Business is reported as Other for segment reporting purposes and has not been allocated below this level as of December 31, 2016. The Company evaluates goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or when events occur or circumstances change that may reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying amount. The Company has elected to 32 Table of Contents perform the annual impairment test of its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, as required, on December 31 of each year by initially comparing the fair value of each of the Companys reporting units to their related carrying values. The Company will also perform an impairment test between annual tests whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit may exceed its fair value. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company performs an additional step to determine the implied fair value of the goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by first allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of the unit and then computing the excess of the units fair value over the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, such excess represents the amount of goodwill impairment, and the Company recognizes such impairment accordingly. Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows and other valuation methodologies, such as the guideline public company method, that are based on projections of the amounts and timing of future revenues and cash flows, assumed discount rates and other assumptions as deemed appropriate. The Company also considers such factors as historical performance, anticipated market conditions, operating expense trends and capital expenditure requirements. Each reporting unit periodically prepares discrete operating forecasts and uses these forecasts as the basis for assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analysis and guideline public company method. The Company has consistently used a discount rate commensurate with its cost of capital which ranges 10.0% to 14.0%, adjusted for inherent business risks within its respective reporting units and has consistently used a terminal growth factor of 3.0%. The Company also reconciles the estimated aggregate fair value of its reporting units as derived from the discounted cash flow analysis and guideline public company method to the Companys overall market capitalization. The Company has historically had six reporting units for purposes of goodwill evaluation. These reporting units consist of (1) the Activated Carbon and Service segment which is segregated into two regional reporting units, the Americas/Asia and Europe, (2) the Equipment segment which is segregated by technology (a) carbon adsorption, (b) ultraviolet light, and (c) ion exchange, and (3) the Consumer segment which includes the charcoal cloth reporting unit. The Company continually monitors its reporting units for impairment indicators and updates assumptions used in the most recent calculation of the fair value of a reporting unit as appropriate. The fair value of the Companys reporting units substantially exceeds the carrying value of its goodwill as of December 31, 2016. Given the preliminary nature of the purchase price allocation and the relatively short time period between the acquisition date and December 31, 2016, the Company did not perform a full evaluation of the acquired goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, but rather performed a qualitative assessment that did not result in an indication of impairment for the New Business as of December 31, 2016. For further information, refer to Notes 18 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report. The Companys identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill and trade names and trademarks have finite lives. Certain of these intangible assets, such as customer relationships, are amortized using an accelerated methodology while others, such as patents, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. In addition, intangible assets with finite lives are evaluated for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable, as prescribed by guidance within ASC 360 Property, Plant, and Equipment. Pensions The Company maintains defined benefit pension plans covering certain union and non-union employees in the U.S. and Europe. As of December 31, 2016, all of the U.S. plans are closed to new hires. In addition, future benefit accruals are frozen for a number of the plans. During 2016, the Company offered certain eligible terminated vested participants in the U.S. pension plans the opportunity to elect a lump sum payment of their respective pension benefits. As a result of these elections, and significant lump sum payouts in the European plans, the Company paid benefits of $5.2 million, and incurred a settlement charge of $1.5 million in 2016. In 2015, the Company incurred settlement charges in both the U.S. and European plans that totaled $0.8 million as a result of employee retirements, and paid $3.8 million from plan assets. In 2014, the Company offered certain eligible terminated vested participants in the U.S. pension plans the opportunity to elect a lump sum payment of their respective pension benefits, and as a result, incurred a settlement charge of $1.0 million and paid benefits of $4.4 million. As a result of the acquisition of the New Business, the projected benefit obligation of the European plans increased $3.9 million in 2016. Net periodic pension cost, which totaled $4.4 million, $2.0 million, and $0.8 million in 2016, 2015,and 2014, respectively, is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions. These assumptions include the long-term rate of return on the defined benefit plans assets, funding levels, discount rates, and various other factors related to 33 Table of Contents employees and retirees participating in the defined benefit plans, including retirement age, salary increases, and mortality assumptions. In 2016 and 2015, the Company assumed an expected weighted average long-term rate of return on the Companys defined benefit plans assets ranging from 5.28% to 7.00% and 5.54% to 7.50%, respectively. For 2017, the expected weighted average rate of return on assets will range from 4.46% to 6.87%. In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumption, the Company evaluated input from its investment advisors, including their review of asset class return expectations as well as long-term inflation assumptions. The Company also considered historical returns on asset classes and the investment mix. The expected long-term return on the U.S. defined benefit plans assets is based on a targeted asset allocation assumption of approximately 40%-50% with equity securities, 45%-55% with fixed-income securities, and 5% with other investments. The European defined benefit plans assets are based on a targeted asset allocation assumption of approximately 20%-30% with equity securities, 55%-65% with fixed-income securities, and 10%-20% with other investments. The Company regularly reviews its asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate. During 2016, the Company funded its defined benefit plans with $2.4 million in contributions. The Company expects that it will be required, in accordance with its funding policy, to fund its defined benefit plans with approximately $4.6 million in contributions in 2017. The discount rate that the Company utilizes for its defined benefit plans to determine pension obligations is based on a review of long-term bonds that receive one of the two highest ratings given by a recognized rating agency. The weighted average discount rate determined on this basis has decreased from a range of 3.15% to 4.38% as of December 31, 2015 to a range of 2.11% to 4.09% as of December 31, 2016. During 2014, the Society of Actuaries released a new mortality table RP-2014, and a new projection scale MP-2014. As a result of these new tables, the Company changed its mortality assumptions for its U.S. plans in 2014. The Company adopted the new RP-2014 mortality table and a modified version of the new MP-2014 projection scale for the U.S. defined benefit plans. The Company has continued to use the same mortality tables and the modified version of the projection scale in 2015 and 2016. For the European defined benefit plans, the Company utilizes country-specific mortality tables and has used the same tables for the majority of its European plans since 2014. In 2016, the Company updated the mortality tables used for the UK plans which did not cause a significant increase to the projected benefit obligations for those plans. Amortization of the actuarial net gain or loss as a result of experience differing from that assumed and from changes in assumptions is included as a component of net periodic pension cost for the year. The Company uses a 10% corridor such that if, as of the beginning of the year, the net gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets, the amortization is that excess divided by the average future working lifetime of participating employees expected to receive benefits under the plan or the average remaining life expectancy of the plans participants if the percentage of actives is less than 10% of the total population. As only the excess actuarial gain or loss is amortized, this approach will not fully amortize the net actuarial gain or loss. The Company considers participants whose benefits are frozen to be active participants, and considers the plan population to be all or almost all inactive when at least 90% of the population is inactive. Under this methodology, the accumulated net actuarial gain/loss amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are not expected to be fully recognized in net periodic pension cost until the plan is terminated (or an earlier event, like a settlement, triggers recognition) because the average expected remaining service of active participants expected to benefit under the plan or the average expected remaining lifetime of inactive participants over which the amounts are amortized is re-determined each year and actuarial gains or losses that fall within the corridor described above are not amortized. The Company estimates that it will record net periodic pension cost for the defined benefit pension plans that will approximate $3.1 million in 2017. The Company recorded net periodic pension cost of $4.4 million in 2016, which included a $1.5 million settlement charge. Thus, the 2017 expected net periodic pension cost is consistent with the 2016 expense, absent the 2016 settlement charge. Future actual net periodic pension cost will depend on future investment performance, funding levels, changes in discount rates and various other factors related to the populations participating in its defined benefit plans, including lump sum payouts, which could result in the recognition of additional settlement charges. The Company will continue to evaluate its actuarial assumptions at least annually, and will adjust as necessary. 34 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical one percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical Rate Increase (Decrease) U.S. Plans European Plans (Dollars in thousands) (1%) 1% (1%) 1% Discount rate Pension liabilities as of December 31, 2016 $ 14,784 $ (12,981) $ 8,643 $ (6,664) Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 2016 $ 1,260 $ (1,081) $ 310 $ (109) Indexation (1) Pension liabilities as of December 31, 2016 $ $ $ (1,890) $ 2,078 Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 2016 $ $ $ (148) $ 162 Expected return on plan assets Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 2016 $ 861 $ (862) $ 270 $ (270) Compensation Pension liabilities as of December 31, 2016 $ (994) $ 1,011 $ (1,152) $ 1,671 Pension costs for the year ended December 31, 2016 $ (175) $ 199 $ (158) $ 233 (1) Pension indexation related to the Companys German Qualified Plan is regulated by German pension law. The law dictates that a pension that is already in payment must be adjusted for inflation every 3 years which is measured by the published German price index for the same time interval. Pension indexation related to the Companys UK Chemviron Plan is based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) in the UK. For this plan, the index is capped at 5% per annum for pensions accrued prior to January 1, 2008 and is capped at 2.5% per annum for pensions accrued after December 31, 2007. For purposes of the Companys UK Sutcliffe Speakman plan, the indexation is fixed at 3% per annum for pensions accrued prior to April 6, 1997. For those pensions accrued from April 6, 1997 to July 31, 2005, the index is subject to a minimum of 3% per annum and a maximum of 5% per annum. For those pensions accrued after July 31, 2005, the index is capped at 2.5% per annum. Income Taxes During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining the Companys annual effective tax rate and in evaluating tax positions. The Company utilizes guidance within ASC 740 Income Taxes regarding the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. This guidance contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Although the Company believes it has adequately reserved for its uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. The Company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the refinement of an estimate, or a lapse of a tax statute. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related penalties and net interest. The Company is subject to varying statutory tax rates in the countries where it conducts business. Fluctuations in the mix of the Companys income between countries will result in changes to the Companys overall effective tax rate. The Company recognizes benefits associated with foreign and domestic net operating loss and credit carryforwards when the Company believes that it is more likely than not that its future taxable income in the relevant tax jurisdictions will be sufficient to enable the realization of the tax benefits. As of December 31, 2016, the Company had recorded total deferred tax assets of $44.4 million, of which $7.8 million represents tax benefits resulting from $0.2 million of unused U.S. foreign tax credits, $4.9 million of net operating losses, $1.4 million of state tax credits, and a capital loss carryover of $0.8 million. State operating loss carryforwards of $0.5 million, net, expire from 2018 to 2036, of which approximately 92% will begin to expire after 2021, if not utilized. 35 Table of Contents The Company periodically reviews the need for a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets and recognizes these deferred tax assets to the extent that realization is more likely than not. Based upon a review of earnings history and trends, forecasted earnings and the relevant expiration of carryforwards, the Company believes that the valuation allowances provided are appropriate. As of December 31, 2016, the Company has recorded a valuation allowance of approximately $2.5 million related to foreign net operating losses, domestic capital loss carryovers, U.S. passive foreign tax credits and state tax credits. Approximately 88% of the Companys deferred tax assets, or $39.2 million, represent temporary differences associated with pensions, accruals, and inventories. Approximately 73% of the Companys deferred tax liabilities of $62.1 million as of December 31, 2016 relate to temporary differences associated with property, plant and equipment. These temporary differences will reverse in the future due to the realization of temporary differences between annual book and tax reporting. The Company believes that the deferred tax liabilities generally will impact taxable income of the same character (ordinary income), timing, and jurisdiction as the deferred tax assets. Contingencies The Company is involved in various asserted and unasserted legal claims. An estimate is made to accrue for a loss contingency relating to any of these legal claims if it is probable that a liability was incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because of the subjective nature inherent in assessing the outcome of legal claims and because the potential that an adverse outcome in a legal claim could have a material impact on the Companys legal position or results of operations, such estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates. Legal fees associated with defending these various lawsuits and claims are expensed when incurred. The Company will continue to evaluate all legal matters as additional information becomes available. Reference is made to Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a discussion of litigation and contingencies. Long-Lived Assets The Company evaluates long-lived assets under the provisions of ASC 360 Property, Plant, and Equipment which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment of long-lived assets, and for disposal of long-lived assets. For assets to be held and used, the Company groups a long-lived asset or assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. An impairment loss for an asset group reduces only the carrying amounts of a long-lived asset or assets of the group being evaluated. The loss is allocated to the long-lived assets of the group on a pro-rata basis using the relative carrying amounts of those assets, except that the loss allocated to an individual long-lived asset of the group does not reduce the carrying amount of that asset below its fair value whenever that fair value is determinable without undue cost and effort. Estimates of future cash flows used to test the recoverability of a long-lived asset group include only the future cash flows that are directly associated with and that are expected to arise as a direct result of the use and eventual disposition of the asset group. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, for details on recently issued accounting guidance. Outlook Activated Carbon and Service According to the Company and independent market research estimates, demand for activated carbon is forecasted to increase at a 3% - 6% compound annual growth rate from 2016 through 2021. This estimated growth is expected to be driven by increasing global demand for clean air and drinking water as a result of expected economic growth generally, heightened public and consumer awareness of the harmful impacts to human health of contaminants in air and water supplies, and new and continuing government regulations. In addition, expected long-term growth of the economies of both mature and developing countries around the world are expected to increase the demand for activated carbon for use in industrial and food and beverage production processes and related wastewater treatment applications. 36 Table of Contents The ultimate pace of future demand growth for activated carbon will be dependent upon many factors, including: the ultimate pace of global economic growth, including potential negative impacts of short or prolonged economic slowdowns in any one or several geographic regions. Future demand growth is also dependent on the impact and timing of potential new air and water regulations as well as potential changes to existing regulations, including the potential impact of environmental policies of the new Presidential administration installed in the U.S. in January of 2017. Changes in corporate income tax and cross-border tax policies in the U.S. and other countries, and, as it relates more specifically to the Company, potential negative impacts of a stronger U.S. dollar versus other global currencies could also impact future demand growth. As a result of the Companys significant participation in providing high performing virgin activated carbon and reactivated carbon and services to meet the market requirements, the Company expects demand for its activated carbon products and services to increase over the longer term. Globally, the Company derives approximately one-third of its sales from industrial sector customers through providing activated carbon and services for their industrial process, environmental water and environmental air end market application needs. During 2016, the Company experienced a decline in sales of its products due to soft global industrial sector market conditions. As 2016 came to a close, the Company believes that market conditions impacting industrial sector customers were stabilizing and that it was beginning to see early indications that the industrial sector economic environment may be improving. While this provides the Company with cautious optimism about the potential for an industrial sector recovery and a related increase in revenues from these customers in 2017, the Company currently expects 2017 sales in this sector to be approximately level with 2016. The Company currently expects growth in sales over 2016 for certain municipal drinking water applications and for mercury removal from flue gas emissions of coal-fired power plants. Increased public awareness of the presence and human health impacts of man-made chemicals and naturally occurring contaminants in drinking water is expected to contribute to growth of the Companys municipal drinking water business in 2017 and into the future. Chemicals from industrial processes and other activities can contaminate groundwater wells and surface water sources. Many of these chemicals are currently unregulated and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other state-level agencies may or may not regulate these contaminants in the future. The Company has seen recent activity at the consumer level demonstrating that communities are demanding drinking water that is free from contaminants regardless of the current regulatory status of those contaminants. Chemical releases that impact sources of drinking water highlight the need for utilities to provide barrier defenses against such events in both groundwater and surface water. Granular activated carbon (GAC) is an ideal technology for this purpose and the Company expects utilities to look to install GAC to provide protection against spills and contamination. Most recently, concern regarding the presence of perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) in drinking water sources has led to an increase in both inquiries and orders from numerous utilities as well as remediation projects across the U.S. In May 2016, after a large number of community water systems found PFC contamination in drinking water sources, the U.S. EPA issued a health advisory limit for PFOA and PFOS, the two most common PFCs. A health advisory limit is non-enforceable and non-regulatory and is meant to inform state agencies and public health officials about the subject contaminants. Many utilities have measured PFC levels above the EPA health advisory limit, resulting in do not drink alerts in many communities. In addition, several states are currently considering issuing maximum contaminant levels that are considerably lower than the health advisory limits established by the EPA. As a result, the Company has won a number of projects across the country related to PFC removal and is continuing to pursue additional active projects in this area. A substantial portion of the sales of an initial PFC removal project tends to be related to the procurement of carbon adsorption equipment that is provided by the Companys Equipment segment. In a similar vein, 1,2,3-Trichloropropane (1,2,3-TCP) in groundwater has become a major issue in California, and to a lesser extent in New York and New Jersey, and the Company has received equipment orders in California and New Jersey and is presently handling inquiries for several more. Harmful algal blooms can also present a human health risk to community drinking water supplies; both GAC and powdered activated carbon (PAC) have been used successfully to protect against the intrusion of algal toxins in drinking water systems. Use of GAC can protect water treatment plants from the harmful effects of algal bloom toxicity, while increased dosing of PAC can also help when algal blooms are detected. In addition, the Company expects to see ongoing business as municipalities continue to adopt the usage of GAC to comply with the U.S. EPAs Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts (DBP) Rule, for which the compliance requirements became effective between 2013 and 2015. While the Company has been successful in attracting municipalities to utilize GAC for Stage 2 DBP compliance, many utilities currently use alternative disinfectants, such as chloramines, as their primary means to comply with the DBP Stage 2 Rule. Disinfection with chloramines, however, can result in the formation of emerging classes of harmful DBPs, many of which are not currently regulated under the DBP Stage 2 rule. 37 Table of Contents In this regard, the EPA is completing its Six Year Review of the DBP Rule, which could in turn lead to a new Stage 3 DBP Rule, which might include a number of these emerging classes of DBPs and could drive additional municipalities to adopt GAC. Although the Company does not expect a DBP Stage 3 rule limiting the use of chloramines or the DBPs formed by chloramine disinfection to go into effect for a number of years, the volume of GAC required to meet these needs could be significant. The Company estimates that the municipal water systems in nine of the largest cities in the U.S. that currently use chloramines to meet their DBP Stage 2 compliance requirements would need initial installations, in the aggregate, of approximately 330 million pounds of GAC. Some of these utilities are already involved in studies or pilot test programs to evaluate the use of GAC to meet their DBP treatment needs. It is possible that some of these, or other municipalities that are treating for DBPs using chloramines, will choose to switch to GAC prior to the issuance of a DBP Stage 3 regulation. As more municipalities move to install GAC for the various reasons mentioned, the Company expects to see more municipalities adopt the use of its custom municipal reactivation (CMR) services. In Europe, the Company expects sales growth in 2017 primarily from higher demand for drinking water applications, excluding potential negative impacts of currency translation. In this regard the Company has a multi-year contract with a large water provider in the United Kingdom (UK) and will supply virgin carbon and reactivation services for up to the remaining seven year period from its upgraded Tipton plant in the UK. China had also announced that it will commit billions of dollars to water and wastewater improvements. Investments are underway, but have been slower than anticipated. The Company continues to monitor this situation closely. China has also tightened the regulations for VOC emissions, which is resulting in new reactivation opportunities. In the environmental air market, the Company has established itself as a market leading supplier of PAC in North America for the removal of mercury from the flue gas of coal-fired power plants, a significant market that completed its formation in April 2016 in compliance with the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) regulation, as well as regulations that had previously been in effect in 19 states and Canada. Based on standard PAC products, the Company estimates the annual demand for mercury removal in North America is between 250 million to 350 million pounds. This annual estimated demand can be impacted by the price of natural gas relative to coal (as electric generating units that are fueled with natural gas do not require PAC to remove mercury emissions as do coal-fired units) and abnormal weather conditions that could lead to higher or lower levels of required electricity generation. The Companys advanced PAC mercury removal products, which can have carbon usage rates of 50% to 90% less than alternative products, are important to its ongoing success in this market. The Companys expectation is that its ongoing share of the value of this market will be at least 30%. Based on 2017 representing the first complete year of compliance with MATS, and the Companys success at capturing net new market share in 2017 relative to 2016, the Company expects its 2017 revenues into this market to experience moderate growth compared to 2016. Over the longer term, it is expected that the number of coal fired generating units utilized in North America will ultimately decline and lead to a decline in the annual estimated market size. In addition to mercury regulations in North America, China has announced plans for mercury removal from its coal-fired power plants. The plans, as announced, stipulate levels of mercury removal that would not likely result in large activated carbon sales. However, trials will purportedly be conducted to establish removal requirements. The Company believes that fair pricing for activated carbon in the U.S. is being achieved via the application of a tariff imposed on Chinese steam activated carbon. Under the anti-dumping rules, importers of steam activated carbon from China are potentially required to pay anti-dumping duties. The U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce Department) conducts reviews in order to determine whether changes (increases or decreases) should be made to the anti-dumping tariff rate applicable to any foreign exporter. These retrospective reviews occur annually while the anti-dumping duty order (the order) is in effect (the current order is scheduled to expire in March 2018). Refer to Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report for further details. Through a series of initiatives that began in 2012, including additional capital investment; plant efficiency studies; and, product rationalization, the Company successfully increased its virgin carbon manufacturing capacity from an estimated 142 million pounds per year to approximately 164 million pounds per year. In addition, over this same timeframe, the Company has been successfully promoting its reactivation offerings to U.S. drinking water customers. Increasing the utilization of the Companys available reactivation capacity has also had the intended impact of freeing up and effectively increasing its virgin activated carbon capacity available for customers requiring virgin activated carbon products. No significant virgin bituminous coal-based activated carbon capacity expansion projects are planned for 38 Table of Contents 2017. However, the previously planned project to refurbish and expand the Companys Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania reactivation facility is expected to continue in 2017 and into early 2018. Raw material costs for production in 2017 are expected to be comparable to 2016. The Companys most significant raw material cost is coal. The quantity of coal consumed varies based on the overall production levels achieved as well as the mix of products manufactured during the year. As of December 31, 2016, the Company has approximately 88% of its anticipated coal requirements for the remainder of 2017 under contract or in inventory. Equipment The Companys equipment business is somewhat cyclical in nature and depends on both regulations and the general health of the overall economy. In 2017, the Company expects moderate growth from 2016 due to expected higher demand for activated carbon adsorption equipment related to the treatment of PFCs and 1,2,3 TCP discussed in the Activated Carbon and Service section above, as well as from expected higher demand in 2017 for ballast water treatment systems (BWTS). The Company believes that global demand for its other UV equipment systems will continue for a variety of applications including drinking water, wastewater, and advanced oxidation. BWTS are used to filter and disinfect the water carried in the ballast tanks of ships to prevent the transfer of organisms from one aquatic ecosystem to another, where such organisms could be potentially harmful. Driving the future demand for BWTS are the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) Final Rule applicable to treating ballast water discharges in the U.S., and the International Maritime Organizations (IMO) International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (IMO Convention) applicable to treating ballast water discharges internationally. Each regulation requires the management of a ships ballast water, generally through the use of a Type Approved BWTS. The Companys Hyde GUARDIAN UV-based BWTS are one of more than 60 BWTS to have achieved Type Approval under the IMO Convention, and it expects to commence testing in March 2017 to ready itself to apply for Type Approval under the USCG Final Rule in late 2017. Recent positive regulatory developments in this market include the September 8, 2016 ratification of the IMO Convention which calls for it to enter into force on September 8, 2017, and the USCGs December 2016 granting of its first three BWTS Type Approvals, two of which were for UV light-based systems. Although the USCG Final Rule phased into effect on January 1, 2014 and January 1, 2016, the lack of availability of any type approved systems until just recently has led to the USCG issuing over 11,500 vessel compliance extensions as of December 16, 2016. As a result of these developments, the Company began experiencing a notable increase in customer inquiries for its BWTS compared to activity earlier in 2016. It expects the pace of activity to remain robust throughout 2017, and lead to higher BWTS equipment sales in late 2017 and continuing into 2018. The timing and pace of this expected increase in sales will be dependent upon a number of variables including the Companys level of success in completing its USCG testing in 2017 as well as the IMO enforcing compliance with its regulation on the September 8, 2017 effective date. The Company currently estimates the size of the future market for BWTS to be in the range of $18 billion to $28 billion and be applicable to approximately 64,000 vessels (both retrofit and new build vessels), with a majority of these vessels expected to be outfitted with BWTS equipment over the next 5 to 7 years. Factors influencing the size of the market include pricing, the ultimate number of vessels to be retrofit, the future economic health of the shipping industry, the number of manufacturers who are ultimately able to effectively serve this market, and ongoing uncertainty surrounding USCG regulation compliance enforcement, and the ultimate vessel implementation schedule to be enforced for IMO Convention compliance. Backlog for the Equipment segment as of December 31, 2016 was $10.9 million. Consumer The Companys Consumer segment supplies activated carbon cloth for use in medical, military and specialty applications. The Company anticipates future growth in medical applications for wound care as its cloth aids in the healing process while providing odor control. The Company continues to focus additional marketing and sales resources to this area of its business, and expects to see modest annual growth in 2017. 39 Table of Contents Other The activities included in Other are exclusively comprised of the New Business acquired by the Company in November 2016, and primarily consists of the manufacture and sale of wood-based activated carbon and diatomaceous earth (DE) filtration media in Europe and Asia. The New Business wood-based activated carbon activities with annual production capacity located in France of approximately 22 million pounds are a component of the global activated carbon market described above in the discussion of the Activated Carbon and Service segment. However, its current activities are not dependent upon environmental regulations, and are primarily leveraged to industrial (including fine chemicals and pharmaceutical production) and food and beverage market applications. The Company estimates these markets will grow in line with the general health of the overall economy. Similarly, the New Business DE filtration media capabilities are primarily leveraged to food and beverage and industrial end markets. With annual capacity located in France of approximately 160 million pounds, the Company expects to see a continuation of solid and steady demand for its DE products, particularly in Europe where only approximately 60% of that regions annual demand is satisfied by the capacity of the Company and other regional manufacturers. The Company currently expects the New Business to contribute approximately $100 million to the Companys sales in 2017. 40 Table of Contents