Managements Discussion and Analysis. The financial information as of December 31, 2018 is derived from the audited financial statements presented in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year December 31, 2018. The interim results for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the year ending December 31, 2019 or for any future interim periods. Emerging growth company The Company is an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act), and it may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in its periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. The Company has elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, the Company, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of the Companys financial statements with another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. 7 CHURCHILL CAPITAL CORP NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MARCH 31, 2019 (Unaudited) Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Making estimates requires management to exercise significant judgment. It is at least reasonably possible that the estimate of the effect of a condition, situation or set of circumstances that existed at the date of the financial statements, which management considered in formulating its estimate, could change in the near term due to one or more future confirming events. Accordingly, the actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. Cash and cash equivalents The Company considers all short-term investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. The Company did not have any cash equivalents as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. Marketable securities held in Trust Account At March 31, 2019, substantially all of the assets held in the Trust Account were held in money market funds. At December 31, 2018, substantially all of the assets held in the Trust Account were held in U.S. Treasury Bills. Common stock subject to possible redemption The Company accounts for its common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. The Companys common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of the Companys control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of the Companys condensed balance sheets. Income taxes The Company follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes under ASC 740, Income Taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statements carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that included the enactment date. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. ASC 740 prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. There were no unrecognized tax benefits and no amounts accrued for interest and penalties as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. The Company is currently not aware of any issues under review that could result in significant payments, accruals or material deviation from its position. The Company is subject to income tax examinations by major taxing authorities since inception. The Company's effective tax rate of (129.9%) differs from its statutory tax rate of 21.0% primarily due to the Company's Business Combination expenses, which are capitalized and therefore not deductible in the current year for tax purposes. 8 CHURCHILL CAPITAL CORP NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MARCH 31, 2019 (Unaudited) Net loss per common share Net loss per common share is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. The Company applies the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Shares of common stock subject to possible redemption at March 31, 2019, which are not currently redeemable and are not redeemable at fair value, have been excluded from the calculation of basic loss per share since such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of the Trust Account earnings. The Company has not considered the effect of warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and private placement to purchase 52,800,000 shares of common stock, since the exercise of the warrants are contingent upon the occurrence of future events. As a result, diluted loss per common share is the same as basic loss per common share for the periods presented. Reconciliation of net loss per common share The Companys net income is adjusted for the portion of income that is attributable to common stock subject to possible redemption, as these shares only participate in the income of the Trust Account and not the losses of the Company. Accordingly, basic and diluted loss per common share is calculated as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Net loss $ (1,302,081 ) Less: Income attributable to shares subject to redemption (2,918,654 ) Adjusted net loss $ (4,220,735 ) Weighted average shares outstanding, basic and diluted 19,948,606 Basic and diluted net loss per share $ (0.21 ) Concentration of credit risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist of cash accounts in a financial institution, which, at times may exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Coverage of $250,000. At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had not experienced losses on these accounts and management believes the Company is not exposed to significant risks on such accounts. Financial instruments The fair value of the Companys assets and liabilities, which qualify as financial instruments under ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, approximates the carrying amounts represented in the accompanying condensed balance sheets, primarily due to their short-term nature. Recent accounting pronouncements Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the Companys condensed financial statements. NOTE 4. PUBLIC OFFERING Pursuant to the Initial Public Offering, the Company sold 69,000,000 Units at a purchase price of $10.00 per Unit, which includes the full exercise by the underwriters of their over-allotment option in the amount of 9,000,000 Units at $10.00 per Unit. Each Unit consists of one share of Class A common stock and one half of one redeemable warrant (Public Warrant). Each whole Public Warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of Class A common stock at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment (see Note 8). 9 CHURCHILL CAPITAL CORP NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MARCH 31, 2019 (Unaudited) NOTE 5. PRIVATE PLACEMENT Simultaneously with the Initial Public Offering, the Sponsor purchased an aggregate of 18,300,000 Private Placement Warrants at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, for an aggregate purchase price of $18,300,000. Each Private Placement Warrant is exercisable to purchase one share of Class A common stock at a price of $11.50 per share. The proceeds from the Private Placement Warrants were added to the proceeds from the Initial Public Offering held in the Trust Account. If the Company does not complete a Business Combination within the Combination Window, the proceeds from the sale of the Private Placement Warrants will be used to fund the redemption of the Public Shares (subject to the requirements of applicable law) and the Private Placement Warrants will expire worthless. There will be no redemption rights or liquidating distributions from the Trust Account with respect to the Private Placement Warrants. NOTE 6. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Founder Shares In July 2018, the Sponsor purchased 11,500,000 shares (the Founder Shares) of the Companys Class B common stock for an aggregate price of $25,000. On August 31, 2018 and September 6, 2018, the Company effected stock dividends of 0.125 of a share of Class B common stock and one third of a share of Class B common stock, respectively, for each outstanding share of Class B common stock, resulting in 17,250,000 Founder Shares outstanding. The Founder Shares will automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock upon consummation of a Business Combination on a one-for-one basis, subject to certain adjustments, as described in Note 8. The Founder Shares included an aggregate of up to 2,250,000 shares subject to forfeiture to the extent that the underwriters over-allotment option was not exercised in full or in part, so that the Sponsor would own, on an as-converted basis, 20% of the Companys issued and outstanding shares after the Initial Public Offering (assuming the Sponsor did not purchase any Public Shares in the Initial Public Offering). As a result of the underwriters election to fully exercise their over-allotment option, 2,250,000 Founder Shares are no longer subject to forfeiture. The Sponsor and its permitted transferees have agreed, subject to limited exceptions, not to transfer, assign or sell any of their Founder Shares until the earlier to occur of: (A) one year after the completion of a Business Combination or (B) subsequent to a Business Combination, (x) if the last sale price of the Class A common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 150 days after a Business Combination, or (y) the date on which the Company completes a liquidation, merger, stock exchange, reorganization or other similar transaction that results in all of the Companys stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property. Administrative Support Agreement The Company entered into an agreement commencing on September 6, 2018 through the earlier of the Companys consummation of a Business Combination and its liquidation, to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a total of $31,250 per month for office space, administrative and support services. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company incurred $93,750 in fees for these services. Related Party Loans In order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor, an affiliate of the Sponsor, or the Companys officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required (Working Capital Loans). If the Company completes a Business Combination, the Company would repay the Working Capital Loans out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to the Company. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, the Company may use a portion of proceeds held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans but no proceeds held in the Trust Account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. Except for the foregoing, the terms of such Working Capital Loans, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. The Working Capital Loans would either be repaid upon consummation of a Business Combination, without interest, or, at the lenders discretion, up to $1,500,000 of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. 10 CHURCHILL CAPITAL CORP NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MARCH 31, 2019 (Unaudited) Advisory Fee The Company has engaged The Klein Group, LLC, an affiliate of Michael Klein and the Sponsor and an affiliate and wholly owned subsidiary of M. Klein and Company (the Klein Group), to act as the Companys financial advisor in connection with the Mergers (as defined and discussed in Note 9). Pursuant to this engagement, the Company will pay the Klein Group an advisory fee of $12.5 million, which shall be earned upon the closing of the Mergers ($7.5 million of such fee to be payable upon the closing of the Mergers, $2.5 million of such fee to be payable on January 31, 2020 and the final $2.5 million of such fee to be payable on January 29, 2021). The payment of such fee is conditioned upon the completion of the Mergers. The Company will also provide a customary indemnity to the Klein Group in connection with this engagement. The engagement of the Klein Group and the payment of the advisory fee has been approved by the Companys audit committee and board of directors in accordance with the Companys related persons transaction policy. The Company and the other parties to the letter agreement entered into at the time of the Initial Public Offering (the Letter Agreement) amended the Letter Agreement to permit the engagement of the Klein Group described above. NOTE 7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Contingent Fee Arrangement The Company has entered into a fee arrangement with a service provider pursuant to which certain fees incurred by the Company will be deferred and become payable only if the Company consummates a Business Combination. If a Business Combination does not occur, the Company will not be required to pay these contingent fees. As of March 31, 2019, the amount of these contingent fees was approximately $300,000. To the extent a Business Combination is consummated, the Company anticipates incurring a significant amount of additional costs. There can be no assurances that the Company will complete a Business Combination. Registration Rights Pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into on September 6, 2018, the holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any shares of Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants or warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans and upon conversion of the Founder Shares) will be entitled to registration rights requiring the Company to register such securities for resale (in the case of the Founder Shares, only after conversion to Class A common stock). The holders of these securities will be entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that the Company register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of a Business Combination and rights to require the Company to register for resale such securities pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act. However, the registration rights agreement provides that the Company will not permit any registration statement filed under the Securities Act to become effective until termination of the applicable lock-up period. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $24,150,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will be waived by the underwriters in the event that the Company does not complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Operating Lease The Company leases space for corporate purposes under a lease agreement that expires in November 2019. The Company incurred rent expense amounting to approximately $23,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Future minimum lease payments due under the lease amount to approximately $72,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019. Reimbursement of Expenses The Sponsor, and the Companys officers and directors or any of their respective affiliates will be reimbursed for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with activities on the Companys behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable Business Combinations, including up to $500,000 for office space rented outside of New York City and personnel hired solely for activities on the Companys behalf. 11 CHURCHILL CAPITAL CORP NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MARCH 31, 2019 (Unaudited) NOTE 8. STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Preferred Stock The Company is authorized to issue 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a par value of $0.0001 per share with such designations, voting and other rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Companys board of directors. At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, there were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding. Class A Common Stock The Company is authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of Class A common stock with a par value of $0.0001 per share. Holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote for each share. At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, there were 3,127,697 and 2,698,606 shares of Class A common stock issued and outstanding, excluding 65,872,303 and 66,301,394 shares of common stock subject to possible redemption, respectively. Class B Common Stock The Company is authorized to issue 20,000,000 shares of Class B common stock with a par value of $0.0001 per share. Holders of Class B common stock are entitled to one vote for each share. At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, there were 17,250,000 shares of Class B common stock issued and outstanding. Holders of Class B common stock will have the right to elect all of the Companys directors prior to a Business Combination. Holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock will vote together as a single class on all other matters submitted to a vote of stockholders except as required by law. The shares of Class B common stock will automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock at the time of a Business Combination on a one-for-one basis, subject to adjustment. In the case that additional shares of Class A common stock, or equity-linked securities, are issued or deemed issued in excess of the amounts offered in the Initial Public Offering and related to the closing of a Business Combination, the ratio at which shares of Class B common stock shall convert into shares of Class A common stock will be adjusted (unless the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock agree to waive such adjustment with respect to any such issuance or deemed issuance) so that the number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of all shares of Class B common stock will equal, in the aggregate, on an as-converted basis, 20% of the sum of the total number of all shares of common stock outstanding upon the completion of the Initial Public Offering plus all shares of Class A common stock and equity-linked securities issued or deemed issued in connection with a Business Combination (excluding any shares or equity-linked securities issued, or to be issued, to any seller in a Business Combination, any private placement-equivalent warrants issued, or to be issued, to any seller in a Business Combination. Holders of Founder Shares may also elect to convert their shares of Class B common stock into an equal number of shares of Class A common stock, subject to adjustment as provided above, at any time. Warrants Public Warrants may only be exercised for a whole number of shares. No fractional warrants will be issued upon separation of the Units and only whole warrants will trade. The Public Warrants will become exercisable on the later of (a) 30 days after the completion of a Business Combination or (b) 12 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering. The Public Warrants will expire five years after the completion of a Business Combination or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. The Company will not be obligated to deliver any shares of Class A common stock pursuant to the exercise of a warrant and will have no obligation to settle such warrant exercise unless a registration statement under the Securities Act covering the issuance of the shares of Class A common issuable upon exercise of the warrants is then effective and a current prospectus relating to those shares of Class A common stock is available, subject to the Company satisfying its obligations with respect to registration. No warrant will be exercisable for cash or on a cashless basis, and the Company will not be obligated to issue any shares to holders seeking to exercise their warrants, unless the issuance of the shares upon such exercise is registered or qualified under the securities laws of the state of the exercising holder, or an exemption from registration is available. The Company has agreed that as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 15 business days after the closing of a Business Combination, the Company will use its best efforts to file with the SEC, and within 60 business days following a Business Combination to have declared effective, a registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and to maintain a current prospectus relating to those shares of Class A common stock until the warrants expire or are redeemed. Notwithstanding the above, if the Class A common stock is at the time of any exercise of a warrant not listed on a national securities exchange such that it satisfies the definition of a covered security under Section 18(b)(1) of the Securities Act, the Company may, at its option, require holders of Public Warrants who exercise their warrants to do so on a cashless basis in accordance with Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act and, in the event the Company so elects, the Company will not be required to file or maintain in effect a registration statement, but will use its reasonable best efforts to qualify the shares under applicable blue sky laws to the extent an exemption is not available 12 CHURCHILL CAPITAL CORP NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MARCH 31, 2019 (Unaudited) Once the warrants become exercisable, the Company may redeem the Public Warrants: in whole and not in part; at a price of $0.01 per warrant; upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, or the 30-day redemption period, to each warrant holder; and if, and only if, the last reported sale price of the Companys Class A common stock equals or exceeds $18.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which we send the notice of redemption to the warrant holders. If and when the warrants become redeemable by the Company, the Company may exercise its redemption right even if it is unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. If the Company calls the Public Warrants for redemption, management will have the option to require all holders that wish to exercise the Public Warrants to do so on a cashless basis, as described in the warrant agreement. The exercise price and number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants may be adjusted in certain circumstances including in the event of a stock dividend, or recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation. However, the warrants will not be adjusted for issuance of Class A common stock at a price below its exercise price. Additionally, in no event will the Company be required to net cash settle the warrants. If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Window and the Company liquidates the funds held in the Trust Account, holders of warrants will not receive any of such funds with respect to their warrants, nor will they receive any distribution from the Companys assets held outside of the Trust Account with the respect to such warrants. Accordingly, the warrants may expire worthless. The Private Placement Warrants are identical to the Public Warrants underlying the Units sold in the Initial Public Offering, except that the Private Placement Warrants and the Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Placement Warrants will not be transferable, assignable or salable until 30 days after the completion of a Business Combination, subject to certain limited exceptions. Additionally, the Private Placement Warrants will be exercisable on a cashless basis and be non-redeemable so long as they are held by the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees. If the Private Placement Warrants are held by someone other than the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees, the Private Placement Warrants will be redeemable by the Company and exercisable by such holders on the same basis as the Public Warrants. NOTE 9. CLARIVATE MERGER AGREEMENT On January 14, 2019, the Company entered into the Merger Agreement by and among the Company; Clarivate Analytics Plc (Holdings), currently a subsidiary of Onex Partners IV LP and Onex Partners IV GP LP; Clarivate; CCC Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdings (Delaware Merger Sub); and Camelot Merger Sub (Jersey) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdings (Jersey Merger Sub). On February 26, 2019, the parties entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement to make certain technical amendments to the Merger Agreement. On March 29, 2019, the parties entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Merger Agreement to make certain technical amendments to the Merger Agreement. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, a business combination between the Company and Clarivate will be effected through (i) the merger of Jersey Merger Sub with and into Clarivate with Clarivate being the surviving company in the merger (the Jersey Merger), in connection with which affiliates of Onex Partners Managers LP (the Onex Shareholders), an affiliate of Baring Private Equity Asia Group Limited (the Baring Shareholder) and the management shareholders of Clarivate (together with the Onex Shareholders and the Baring Shareholder, the Clarivate Owners) will be issued an aggregate of 217,500,000 ordinary shares of Holdings (the Ordinary Shares) and (ii) the merger of Delaware Merger Sub with and into the Company with the Company being the surviving corporation in the merger (the Delaware Merger and, together with the Jersey Merger, the Mergers and the Mergers, together with the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Transactions). In connection with the Mergers, each stockholder of the Company will receive one Ordinary Share for each share of the Companys common stock that such stockholder owns, and existing warrants to purchase the Companys common stock will become warrants (Holdings Warrants) exercisable to purchase Ordinary Shares in accordance with the terms thereof. In addition, the number of Ordinary Shares issued to the Clarivate Owners increases by 1 Ordinary Share for every $10 of transaction-related expenses incurred by the Company in excess of an agreed amount. Consummation of the Transactions is conditioned on the Company having at least $5,000,001 of net tangible assets remaining after completion of the redemption offer. In addition, the consummation of the Transactions is conditioned upon, among other things, (i) the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act having expired; (ii) no order, statute, rule or regulation enjoining or prohibiting the consummation of the Transactions being in force; (iii) the memorandum of association and articles of association of Holdings having been amended and restated; (iv) the Form F-4 registration statement of Holdings with respect to the registration of the Ordinary Shares and Holdings Warrants having become effective in accordance with the provision of the Securities Act and no stop order having been issued by the SEC which remains in effect with respect to the Form F-4, and no proceeding seeking such a stop order having been threatened or initiated by the SEC which remains pending, (v) the approval for listing by the New York Stock Exchange of the Ordinary Shares and Holdings Warrants to be issued in connection with the business combination having been obtained; (vi) the Company having at least $550,000,000 of cash after giving effect to payment of amounts that the Company will be required to pay to redeeming stockholders upon consummation of the Transactions and certain other fees and expenses described in the Merger Agreement; and (vii) the approval of the Companys stockholders of the Transactions having been obtained. 13 CHURCHILL CAPITAL CORP NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MARCH 31, 2019 (Unaudited) The Company has engaged the Klein Group to act as the Companys financial advisor in connection with the Mergers. Pursuant to this engagement, the Company will pay the Klein Group an advisory fee of $12.5 million, which shall be earned upon the closing of the Mergers ($7.5 million of such fee to be payable upon the closing of the Mergers, $2.5 million of such fee to be payable on January 31, 2020 and the final $2.5 million of such fee to be payable on January 29, 2021). The payment of such fee is conditioned upon the completion of the Mergers. The engagement of the Klein Group and the payment of the advisory fee has been approved by the Companys audit committee and board of directors in accordance with the Companys related persons transaction policy. The Company and the other parties to the Letter Agreement amended the Letter Agreement to permit the engagement of the Klein Group described above. In connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement, the Sponsor, the founders and Garden State Capital Partners LLC, a Delaware limited liability company in which Michael Klein holds an equity interest and is the managing member (Garden State), entered into a letter agreement (the Sponsor Agreement) pursuant to which they have agreed to comply with the provisions of the Merger Agreement applicable to such persons as well as the covenants set forth in the Sponsor Agreement, including voting all shares of common stock of the Company beneficially owned by such persons in favor of the Transactions. The Sponsor Agreement provides that the ordinary shares of Clarivate and Clarivate warrants to be issued to such persons in connection with the Mergers will be subject to a three-year lock-up restriction (partially reduced to two years in the event the Onex Shareholders and/or the Baring Shareholders sell any ordinary shares of Clarivate prior to such date). The Sponsor Agreement also provides that the ordinary shares of Clarivate to be issued to the Sponsor in connection with the Mergers in respect of Founder Shares and available for distribution to Jerre Stead, Michael Klein and Sheryl von Blucher and the Clarivate warrants held by the Sponsor and available for distribution to such persons and to Garden State, in each case, will be subject to certain time and performance-based vesting provisions described below. 50% of the ordinary shares of Clarivate held by Jerre Stead, Michael Klein and Sheryl von Blucher will vest in three equal annual installments, with the first, second and third installments vesting on the first, second and third anniversaries of the closing of the Transactions, respectively. 25% of the ordinary shares of Clarivate held by such persons will vest at such time as a $15.25 Stock Price Level (as defined below) is achieved on or before the date that is 42 months after the closing of the Transactions, and 25% of the ordinary shares of Clarivate held by such persons will vest at such time as a $17.50 Stock Price Level is achieved on or before the fifth anniversary of the closing of the Transactions. The ordinary shares of Clarivate that are subject to vesting at the $15.25 Stock Price Level shall be eligible to vest with the ordinary shares subject to the $17.50 Stock Price Level if the $15.25 Stock Price Level is not achieved on or before the date that is 42 months after the closing of the Transactions. If any of the ordinary shares of Clarivate subject to such Stock Price Level vesting vest prior to the third anniversary of the closing of the Transactions, such ordinary shares of Clarivate shall also be subject to the time-based vesting described in the first sentence of this paragraph. The Clarivate warrants held by Jerre Stead, Michael Klein, Sheryl von Blucher and Garden State will vest at such time as a $17.50 Stock Price Level is achieved on or before the fifth anniversary of the closing of the Transactions; provided that none of such Clarivate warrants will vest prior to the first anniversary of the closing of the Transactions, not more than 1/3 of such Clarivate warrants will vest prior to the second anniversary of the closing of the Transactions, and not more than 2/3 of such Clarivate warrants will vest prior to the third anniversary of the closing of the Transactions. In addition, if a $20.00 Stock Price Level is achieved on or before the sixth anniversary of the closing of the Transactions, Clarivate shall allot and issue 7,000,000 newly-issued ordinary shares of Clarivate to the persons designated by Jerre Stead and Michael Klein (or, in the event of death or incapacity of either, by his respective successor) (the Incentive Shares). In the event of certain sale transactions involving the ordinary shares of Clarivate or all or substantially all of the assets of Clarivate, the unvested ordinary shares of Clarivate subject only to time-based vesting shall automatically become vested. The unvested ordinary shares of Clarivate subject to performance-based vesting and the unvested Clarivate warrants subject to performance-based vesting will vest if the per share price implied in such sale transaction is equal to or greater than the applicable Stock Price Level. The Incentive Shares will also become issuable if the per share price implied in such sale transaction is equal to or greater than $20.00. For the sake of clarity, all unvested ordinary shares of Clarivate subject to performance-based vesting and the unvested Clarivate warrants subject to performance-based vesting will not vest if the per share price implied in such sale transaction is less than the applicable Stock Price Level. 14 CHURCHILL CAPITAL CORP NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MARCH 31, 2019 (Unaudited) Ordinary shares of Clarivate that are subject to performance-based vesting will be forfeited for no consideration to the Clarivate Owners if they do not vest in accordance with the Sponsor Agreement. Clarivate warrants that are subject to performance-based vesting may be transferred to the Clarivate Owners (with respect to the Clarivate warrants held by Jerre Stead, Michael Klein and Sheryl von Blucher) or Clarivate (with respect to the Clarivate warrants held by Garden State), in each case, for a purchase price equal to the original cost of such warrants, in certain circumstances if they do not vest in accordance with the Sponsor Agreement. The applicable Stock Price Level will be considered achieved only when the last reported sale price per ordinary share of Clarivate on the NYSE equals or exceeds the applicable threshold for any 40 trading days during a 60 consecutive trading day period, which 60 consecutive trading day period will not commence until the earlier of (i) the date on which Onex or Baring sell any of their respective ordinary shares of Clarivate to a third party that is not an affiliate of Onex, Baring, any founder, Sponsor or Garden State or (ii) the first anniversary of the closing of the Transactions. Pursuant to the Sponsor Agreement, Jerre Stead (personally or through his designee, JMJS Group-II, LP) and Michael Klein have agreed to purchase from the Company an aggregate of 1,500,000 shares of common stock of the Company immediately prior to the closing of the Transactions for an aggregate purchase price of $15,000,000. The Sponsor Agreement provides for certain tag-along rights in favor of the Sponsor, if applicable, the founders and Garden State upon certain sales of ordinary shares of Clarivate by the Onex Shareholders or the Baring Shareholders following the expiration of the lock-up period described above. In addition, the Sponsor Agreement provides for certain drag-along rights in favor of the Onex Shareholders and the Baring Shareholders which permit the Onex Shareholders and the Baring Shareholders to require the founders, Garden State and, if applicable, the Sponsor to sell a proportionate number of ordinary shares of Clarivate held by such persons if the Onex Shareholders and the Baring Shareholders propose to transfer 50% or more of the ordinary shares of Clarivate then-held by the Onex Shareholders and the Baring Shareholders. The Sponsor Agreement terminates on the earlier of (i) the latest of (w) the expiration of the lock-up period described above, (x) the vesting in full and delivery of all ordinary shares of Clarivate and Clarivate warrants subject to vesting as described above, (y) the issuance of the Incentive Shares or (z) if the Incentive Shares have not been issued on or prior to the sixth anniversary of the closing of the Transactions, the day after the sixth anniversary of the closing of the Transactions or (ii) prior to the closing of the Transactions, the liquidation of the Company or, if the closing of the Transactions shall have occurred, the liquidation of Clarivate. The Clarivate Owners, the Sponsor, the founders and Garden State will be granted certain rights, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement which will be entered into at or prior to the closing of the Transactions. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, such persons will be entitled to have registered, in certain circumstances, the resale of the ordinary shares of Clarivate held by them, subject to certain conditions set forth therein. The parties to the Registration Rights Agreement will also be entitled to participate in certain registered offerings by Clarivate or demand registrations by the other parties to the Registration Rights Agreement, subject to certain limitations and restrictions. Clarivate will indemnify the parties for certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act, and will pay certain expenses of the parties incurred in connection with the exercise of their rights under the Registration Rights Agreement. NOTE 10. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The Company follows the guidance in ASC 820 for its financial assets and liabilities that are re-measured and reported at fair value at each reporting period, and non-financial assets and liabilities that are re-measured and reported at fair value at least annually. The fair value of the Companys financial assets and liabilities reflects managements estimate of amounts that the Company would have received in connection with the sale of the assets or paid in connection with the transfer of the liabilities in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In connection with measuring the fair value of its assets and liabilities, the Company seeks to maximize the use of observable inputs (market data obtained from independent sources) and to minimize the use of unobservable inputs (internal assumptions about how market participants would price assets and liabilities). The following fair value hierarchy is used to classify assets and liabilities based on the observable inputs and unobservable inputs used in order to value the assets and liabilities: Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. An active market for an asset or liability is a market in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Level 2: Observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs. Examples of Level 2 inputs include quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities and quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets that are not active. Level 3: Unobservable inputs based on our assessment of the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. 15 CHURCHILL CAPITAL CORP NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MARCH 31, 2019 (Unaudited) The following table presents information about the Companys assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation inputs the Company utilized to determine such fair value: Description Level March 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Assets: Marketable securities held in Trust Account 1 $ 698,421,442 $ 694,574,904 NOTE 11. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Subsequent to March 31, 2019 the Company and the underwriters of the Initial Public Offering agreed to amend their underwriting agreement to permit the Company to elect to reduce the deferred underwriting discount under certain circumstances. The Company evaluates subsequent events and transactions that occur after the balance sheet date up to the date that the condensed financial statements were issued. Other than as described above, the Company did not identify any subsequent events that would have required adjustment or disclosure in the condensed financial statements. 16 Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Churchill Capital Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to Churchill Sponsor LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on June 20, 2018 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or other similar Business Combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. The issuance of additional shares of our stock in a Business Combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B common stock resulted in the issuance of Class A shares on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B common stock; may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; could cause a change of control if a substantial number of shares of our common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the stock ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A common stock and/or warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant indebtedness, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a Business Combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. 17 Recent Developments On January 14, 2019, as amended on February 26, 2019 and March 29, 2019, we entered into the Merger Agreement by and among the Company, Holdings, Clarivate; Delaware Merger Sub; and Jersey Merger Sub. See Note 9 in Item 1 above for a description of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from June 20, 2018 (inception) through March 31, 2019 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, after our Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination and activities in connection with the proposed Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2019, we had net loss of $1,302,081, which consists of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $3,846,538, offset by operating costs of $4,412,950 and a provision for income taxes of $735,669. Business Combination expenses of approximately $4,070,000 are included in operating costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources On September 11, 2018, we consummated an Initial Public Offering of 69,000,000 units, including the full exercise by the underwriters of their over-allotment option in the amount of 9,000,000 units, at $10.00 per unit, generating gross proceeds of $690,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 18,300,000 Private Placement Warrants, at $1.00 per private placement warrant, to the Sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $18,300,000. Following the Initial Public Offering, the exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $690,000,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred $38,023,145 in Initial Public Offering related costs, including $13,800,000 of underwriting fees, $24,150,000 of deferred underwriting fees and $73,145 of other costs, which is net of a $588,000 reimbursement received from the underwriters. As of March 31, 2019, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $698,421,442 (including approximately $8,421,000 of interest income) consisting of money market funds. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through March 31, 2019, we did not withdraw any interest earned on the Trust Account. For the three months March 31, 2019, cash used in operating activities was $610,540. Net loss of $1,302,081 was effected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $3,846,538, a deferred tax provision of $13,098 and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $4,551,177 of cash. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (which interest shall be net of amounts withdrawn to pay our taxes) to complete a Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete a Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account after redemptions, if any, will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. As of March 31, 2019, we had cash of $2,917,650 held outside the Trust Account. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor, or our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds from time to time or at any time as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts, but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used to repay such loaned amounts. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. 18 We have principally financed our operations from inception using proceeds from the sale of our equity securities to our shareholders prior to the Initial Public Offering and such amount of proceeds from the sale of the Private Placement Warrants and the Initial Public Offering that were placed in an account outside of the Trust Account for working capital purposes. As of March 31, 2019, we had $2,917,650 in our operating bank accounts, $698,421,442 in securities held in the Trust Account to be used for a Business Combination or to repurchase or redeem our common stock in connection therewith and working capital deficit of approximately $2,436,000, which excludes approximately $1,594,000 of franchise and income taxes payable that may be paid from interest earned on the Trust Account. In addition, two of our service providers have agreed to defer the payment of fees owed to them until the consummation of a Business Combination, which amounted to approximately $3,014,000 as of March 31, 2019. Based on the foregoing, we believe we will have sufficient cash to meet our needs for the next twelve months following the date from when the financial statements are issued. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2019. Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than as described below. We have agreed to pay an affiliate of our Sponsor a monthly fee of $31,250 for office space, administrative and support services to the Company. We began incurring these fees on September 6, 2018 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and our liquidation. Additionally, we lease space for corporate purposes under a lease agreement that expires in November 2019. We incurred rent expense under the lease amounting to approximately $23,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Future minimum lease payments due under the lease amount to approximately $72,000 for the year ended December 31, 2019. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Common stock subject to possible redemption We account for our common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our balance sheets. Net loss per common share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Shares of common stock subject to possible redemption which are not currently redeemable and are not redeemable at fair value, have been excluded from the calculation of basic net loss per share since such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of the Trust Account earnings. Our net loss is adjusted for the portion of income that is attributable to common stock subject to possible redemption, as these shares only participate in the earnings of the Trust Account and not our income or losses. Recent accounting standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements.