Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report for additional detail regarding factors that may cause actual results to be different than those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Such factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Even if our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and the development of our business or the industry in which we operate are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods. Any forward-looking statements made by us in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date on which they are made. We are under no obligation to, and expressly disclaim any obligation to, update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or otherwise, except as required by law. Risk Factor Summary The following is a summary of the principal risks described below in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in this Form 10-K. We believe that the risks described in the Risk Factors section are material to investors, but other factors not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect us. The following summary should not be considered an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing us, and it should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and the other information contained in this Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Business The market in which we operate is highly competitive and rapidly changing and we may be unable to compete successfully. Adverse conditions in the automotive industry or the global economy more generally could have adverse effects on our results of operations. Our process optimization and cost-reduction efforts may not be successful. Our strategy to increase cloud connected services may adversely affect our near-term revenue growth and results of operations. Pricing pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business. We invest effort and money seeking validation of our technology by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and there can be no assurance that we will win or be able to renew service contracts. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we lost any of our largest customers. 1 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our stock price to decline. We may not be successful with the adoption of new products. We may be unable to attract and retain management and other key personnel. We depend on skilled employees and could be impacted by a shortage of critical skills. Some of our employees are represented by workers councils or unions or are subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the U.S. Cybersecurity and data privacy incidents or breaches may damage client relations and inhibit our growth. Compliance with global privacy and data security requirements could result in additional costs and liabilities to us or inhibit our ability to collect and process data globally, and the failure to comply with such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The development and use of artificial intelligence AI (AI) presents risks and challenges that can impact our business including by posing security risks to our confidential information, proprietary information, and personal data and could give rise to legal and/or regulatory actions, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. A significant portion of our revenues and research and development activities originate outside the United States. Our results could be harmed by economic, political and regulatory risks associated with these international regions and foreign currency fluctuations. Our business in China is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic, market and political conditions. Interruptions or delays in our services or services from data center hosting facilities or public clouds could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, our operating results could be negatively impacted. Public health events, such as pandemics or disease outbreaks, have disrupted, and may in the future disrupt, our business, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property and Technology Third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could be exposed to significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products if such claims are successful. Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our software products may have bugs, which could result in delayed or lost revenue, expensive correction, liability to our customers and claims against us. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to changes in technology and technological risks and to develop our intellectual property into commercially viable products. We utilize certain key technologies, content and services from, and integrate certain of our solutions with, third parties and may be unable to replace those technologies, content and services if they become obsolete, unavailable or incompatible with our solutions. Risks Relating to the Spin-Off The allocation of intellectual property rights and data between Nuance and Cerence as part of the Spin-Off, could adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain intellectual property rights, and our competitive position. 2 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Securities and Indebtedness We may evaluate whether to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future. Servicing our debt may require a significant amount of cash. We may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our indebtedness. The conditional conversion feature of the 2028 Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common stock. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the 2028 Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. Certain provisions in our organizational documents, including amendments thereto, and Delaware law may discourage takeovers. Our organizational documents, including amendments thereto, designate the courts of the State of Delaware or the U.S. district courts as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of proceedings, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes. General Risk Factors Tax matters may cause significant variability in our financial results and may impact our overall financial condition. The commercial and credit environment may adversely affect our access to, and the cost of, capital. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. Your percentage ownership in Cerence may be diluted in the future. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors views of us could be harmed. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Overview Cerence builds conversational and agentic AI solutions that make interaction with technology feel effortless. With decades of expertise in voice, AI, and edge-to-cloud engineering, were trusted by many of the worlds leading automakers, transportation OEMs, consumer brands, and technology companies to build voice powered-interfaces that shape the user experiences of today and tomorrow. While the majority of our business is in the automotive market, our solutions can be leveraged across other areas of transportation - two-wheeled vehicles, trucks, and more - as well as outside of automotive - televisions, smart watches, voice-powered kiosks, and more. Our automotive customers include nearly all major automobile original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) worldwide, including BMW, Mercedes-Benz, the Volkswagen Group (Volkswagen, Audi, Porsche, and other brands), Stellantis, Renault, Toyota, Ford, General Motors, BYD, Great Wall Motor, and NIO. We also partner with leading tier-one suppliers including HARMAN, EcarX, Bosch, Continental, Denso Ten, Aptiv, and others. We deliver our solutions on a white-label basis, enabling our customers to deliver highly customized virtual assistants with unique, branded personalities that strengthen the bond between their brands and end users. Fast-moving technological advancements and increasing user engagement and comfort with large language models are driving automakers to examine how they can quickly and cost-effectively bring expanded AI features into their cars. To meet the increasing demand for automotive cognitive assistance and to offer differentiated in-car experiences, OEMs and suppliers are building proprietary virtual assistants into their vehicles. We believe that this trend will continue and that consumer adoption of in-car AI will continue to grow. Cerence is a market leader for building integrated, branded and differentiated virtual assistants for automobiles, offering an extensive solutions portfolio that includes conversational & generative AI as well as audio & communications AI. Our conversational and generative AI solutions include a full-stack generative AI-based voice assistant, including voice activation, natural voice input and output, and hybrid conversational services for automotive and general-purpose tasks. Our audio and communications AI solutions include best-in-class audio applications, enhancing in-car experiences by reducing environmental noise and enabling seamless interaction with vehicles, inside and out. Our solutions are comprised of both edge computing and cloud-connected software components and a software framework linking these components together under a common programming interface. We deploy these solutions in deep partnership with OEMs and suppliers to optimize our software for the requirements, configurations and acoustic characteristics of specific vehicle models. We generate revenue primarily by selling software licenses and cloud-connected services. In addition, we generate professional services revenue from our work with OEMs and suppliers during the design, development, and deployment phases of the vehicle model lifecycle and through maintenance and enhancement projects. Over our more than 25 years in the automotive industry, we have developed longstanding industry relationships. We have existing relationships with nearly all major OEMs or their tier 1 suppliers, and while our customer contracts vary, they generally represent multi-year engagements, giving us visibility into future revenue. We have master agreements or similar commercial arrangements in place with many of our customers, supporting customer retention over the long term. As of September 30, 2025, we had estimated five-year remaining performance obligations of approximately $165.2 million. As of September 30, 2025, we had variable five-year backlog of approximately $1,004.0 million, which includes estimated future revenue from variable forecasted royalties related to our embedded, connected, and professional services businesses. Our estimate of forecasted royalties is based on our royalty rates for embedded and connected technologies from expected car shipments under our existing contracts over the term of the programs. Expected shipments are based on historical shipping experience, customer projections, and other information that management believes, taken collectively, provide a reasonable basis for estimating future shipments as of the date of this Form 10-K. Both our embedded and connected technologies are largely priced and sold on a per-vehicle or device basis, where we receive a single fee for either or both the embedded license and the connected service term. However, our five-year remaining performance obligations and variable five-year backlog may not be indicative of our actual future revenue. The revenue we actually recognize is uncertain and subject to numerous factors, including the number and timing of vehicles our customers ship, potential terminations or changes in scope of customer contracts, and currency fluctuations, as well as the other risks discussed below in Item IA, Risk Factors. As of September 30, 2025, we estimate our five-year backlog to be approximately $1,169.2 million, including $165.2 million of five-year remaining performance obligations and $1,004.0 million of five-year variable backlog. As of September 30, 2024, the estimated five-year backlog was approximately 4 Table of Contents $952.7 million, including $172.7 million of five-year remaining performance obligations and $780.0 million of five-year variable backlog. Our solutions have shipped in more than 525 million automobiles to date, including over 25 million new vehicles in fiscal year 2025 alone. Based on royalty reports provided by our customers and third-party reports of total vehicle production worldwide, we estimate that approximately 52% of all cars shipped during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2025 included Cerence technologies. Cerence hybrid solutions shipped on approximately 15.4 million vehicles during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2025. In aggregate, over 80 OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers worldwide use our solutions, covering over 70 languages and dialects, including English, German, Spanish, French, Mandarin, Cantonese, Japanese and Hindi. In fiscal year 2025, we generated revenue of $251.8 million, a decrease of 24% compared to $331.5 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2024. We recorded net loss of $18.7 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2025, a change of 97% compared to net loss of $588.1 million recorded for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2024. The financial information included herein may not necessarily reflect our results of operations in the future. History and Corporate Information On October 1, 2019, Nuance Communications, a leading provider of speech and language solutions for businesses and consumers around the world, completed the legal and structural separation and distribution to its stockholders of all of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and its consolidated subsidiaries, in a tax free spin-off (theSpin-Off). On October 2, 2019, our common stock began regular-way trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol CRNC. Our principal executive offices are located at 25 Mall Road, Suite 416, Burlington, Massachusetts 01803 and our telephone number at that address is (857) 362-7300. Our website is www.cerence.com. We are not including the information contained in our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or otherwise furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on the investor relations page of our website (https://investors.cerence.com/). Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, investor events, and press and earnings releases as part of our investor relations website. We intend to use our investor relations website as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. The information contained in our website is not included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Form 10-K or in any other document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. Our Technology & Capabilities Our mission is to create the worlds most compelling, immersive experience across transportation and beyond, for today and tomorrow. We deliver automotive cognitive assistance solutions that are conversational and intuitive and that enable OEMs to strengthen their connection with their end users through a distinct, consistent, branded experience. Our solutions portfolio, developed in deep partnership with the automotive industry and designed to improve the in-car experience for drivers and passengers worldwide, includes, but is not limited to, the following: Conversational and Generative AI: Our AI-powered UX platforms includeCerence xUI, our customizable, hybrid generative AI platform built on our CaLLM family of large and small language models, and Cerence Assistant, our ready-to-deploy, next-gen voice assistant. These offerings are supported by our core technologies, including assistant activation, precise speech recognition and lifelike text-to-speech that create natural, intuitive voice experiences. Audio AI: a set of advanced, flexible and scalable speech enhancement and signal processing solutions tailored for modern voice assistants, voice communication applications and acoustic event detection. 5 Table of Contents How it Works User engagement with Cerence-powered virtual assistants typically begins with a voice request. Upon receiving such an input, our software platform determines what the user has said, infers user intent, and maps the request to the most applicable category and domain or agent. Depending on the applicable domain, our software platform determines whether to respond directly or access an external or third-party data source, in all cases resulting in a response including spoken words and/or taking action. Depending on the complexity of the request and other factors, engagement may consist of multiple rapid voice interactions with the user and may combine assistance in multiple domains or across multiple AI agents. Our software platform offers a hybrid architecture combining edge software components, which are embedded in a vehicles head unit and integrated with onboard systems, with cloud-connected components, which access data and content on external networks and support over-the-air updates. This hybrid architecture enables our software platform to combine the performance, reliability, efficiency, security and tight vehicular integration of embedded software with the flexibility and intelligence that cloud connectivity provides. Response frameworks can generally be customized such that requests are processed first at the edge, controlling cloud transmission costs, or in parallel at the edge and in the cloud, to achieve higher confidence responses with low latency. Our software platform includes a common programming framework including toolkits and applications for its edge and cloud-connected components, and our customers can choose the software components that are necessary to power the experiences that they want to build and offer. We typically sell our edge software components under a traditional per unit perpetual software license model, in which a per unit fee is charged for each software instance installed on an automotive head unit. Our customers generally provide estimates of the units to be shipped for a particular program, and we review third-party market studies and work with our customers to refine and understand these projections. While these projections provide us with some reasonable visibility into future revenue, the number of units to be shipped for a particular program is not committed upfront. We offer cloud-connected components in the form of a connected service to the vehicle end user. Initial subscriptions typically have multi-year terms from the time of a vehicles sale and are paid in advance by the OEM or supplier. Renewal options vary and are managed by our customers on behalf of vehicle end users. Professional Services We have a large professional services team that works with our customers in the design, development and deployment phases of a vehicle head unit program and vehicle model lifecycle, as well as in maintenance and enhancement engagements. Our professional services team is globally distributed to serve our customers in their primary design and production jurisdictions. We typically charge manufacturers for our design and consulting work, which are primarily project-based, in line with customary non-recurring engineering industry practices. 6 Table of Contents Our Competitive Strengths Our key competitive strengths include: Industry-leading technology and expansive language portfolio. Fast-moving technological advancements and increasing user engagement with large language model (LLM)-powered assistant platforms are driving automakers to examine how they can quickly and cost-effectively bring expanded AI features into their cars. Cerence xUI delivers on this need, offering an agentic, automotive-specific voice assistant platform that leverages our CaLLM family of cloud and embedded large and small language models; third-party LLMs and agents; real-time data sources; and contextual data from the car to create an engaging, conversational interface that can complete tasks, answer questions, and entertain users. Underscoring our deep expertise at the intersection of AI innovation and the unique requirements of the automotive user experience, we have already signed several strategic, long-term partnership agreements as well as proof-of-concept programs with global automakers to deploy Cerence xUI as the basis for their future in-cabin experiences. In addition to our core platform innovation, we believe that our portfolio of over 70 languages represent an important competitive advantage, as the development of capabilities to support a new language is expensive and time-consuming. Importantly, our offerings are backed by our portfolio of patents and associated rights. Hybrid edge-cloud system architecture. Our platforms' hybrid architecture combines the performance, reliability and tight integration that only edge software can provide with the flexibility of cloud connectivity. Cloud-reliant solutions with which our software platform competes cannot match edge softwares low latency, bandwidth efficiency, or availability in the absence of network connectivity. At the same time, cloud connectivity provides rich knowledge and content, improving the end user experience, and - depending on the OEM's particular capabilities - enables automakers to deploy new and advanced capabilities not only to new cars, but to cars already on the road , delivering added value to their drivers even after vehicle purchase. With our unique expertise in hybrid AI, we deliver an optimal interplay between the edge and cloud, reducing connectivity requirements and data privacy concerns while also leveraging real-time data and advanced AI reasoning. Platform Flexibility. With cross-platform compatibility and hardware flexibility, we empower OEMs to adapt quickly, reduce complexity, and deploy bespoke in-car assistants across different vehicle platforms and SOCs. We work with a variety of partners - NVIDIA, Arm, SiMa.AI, and others - to deliver an agnostic approach that meets OEMs where they are and fits into their budget and technology requirements. This helps OEMs avoid being locked into a singular architecture and helps future-proof their platforms in an age of rapid innovation and ever-changing consumer needs. Independence from large technology companies and automobile industry players. The in-car experience is more central to the overall driving experience than ever. Branded, differentiated automotive cognitive assistants are thus increasingly important to OEMs brand value. As a neutral, independent, white-label software platform vendor, we empower our customers to build branded and differentiated experiences and retain ownership of, or rights to, their system design and data. Deep expertise working with OEMs and tier 1 suppliers. The design and development of the head unit within the vehicle ecosystem is a complex process requiring tight integration of the software and hardware components used in and with the vehicle. Having partnered with the world's leading OEMs and suppliers for over 25 years to design and integrate our solutions into their cars, we have a unique understanding of their needs, product roadmaps and global go-to-market strategies. Further, we are fully operational and production ready for the start-to-finish execution of automotive programs. This gives us credibility with OEMs as we seek new business or look to grow our existing business. 7 Table of Contents Our Growth Strategies We believe our growth opportunity has three key facets: continued investment in expanding the capabilities of our solutions portfolio, delivering new functionality to our installed base, and expansion beyond automotive. We believe that successful execution of these key objectives could lead to the greater penetration of our offerings and key enabling technologies throughout our target markets, resulting in an increase in the revenue we are able to capture per vehicle and expansion of our market share relative to competitors. Our primary growth strategies include, but are not limited to, the following: Maintain and extend product leadership. We intend to continue investing in developing our solutions portfolio, especially continuing to expand the capabilities of Cerence xUI, our next-gen platform, with a particular view toward maintaining our market share in edge software components and growing our share in cloud-connected software functionalities. Our existing relationship with, and our proximity in the design process to, OEMs provides us with insight into the needs of end-users and roadmaps for innovation. Additionally, we intend to continue to invest in customizing and supporting our solutions for specific individual automobile vehicle models, resulting in tight integration of our solutions. We believe that increasing complexity of our edge software components, including with respect to language models and multi-modal interaction, and growth in our cloud-connected product areas, including the enabling of third-party services, will enable us to increase the revenue per vehicle that we are able to generate. Additionally, we believe that these investments will help maintain our position with existing customers through new vehicle models and enable us to grow with the overall market for automotive cognitive assistance. Deliver new functionality to existing installed base. Our solutions have shipped in more than 525 million vehicles to date. Depending on system capabilities, we have an opportunity to deliver updated functionality to end users in the form of embedded software upgrades performed by dealers and over-the-air updates delivered from the cloud. Expand into non-automotive markets. Today, we primarily target the automobile and broader transportation market. However, our products and technology also have application to other areas, including, but not limited to, televisions, consumer devices like smart watches, voice-powered kiosks, and industrial applications. We have early progress in some of these areas and see this as a growth opportunity moving forward. Competition The automotive cognitive assistance market is competitive. Today, we face competition from three types of organizations: Large technology companies. Many large technology companies, including Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Alibaba, Baidu and Tencent, offer Internet-based virtual assistants. Given the popularity in general of these virtual assistants, we believe that automobile drivers and riders increasingly desire the ability to use them as part of the mobility experience. To meet this demand, some of these companies have invested in technologies, such as Apple CarPlay, to make their virtual assistants more accessible within vehicle cabins. While these third-party virtual assistants directly compete with some of the functionality we provide as part of our software platform, they also increase the need for our software platform in two ways. First, given the fragmented and competitive nature of the virtual assistant market, it is important for OEMs and suppliers to enable end users to utilize a variety of virtual assistants. The flexibility of our platforms can, dependent on appropriate third-party agreements, enable OEMs and suppliers to provide access to multiple third-party virtual assistants through a consistent, branded interface. Second, the noisy environment of a vehicle cabin presents significant speech processing challenges for smartphone-based third-party virtual assistants that are not designed for a specific vehicle model. Our software platform integrates with third-party virtual assistants and improves their functionality by improving the quality of speech input. OEMs. In the age of the software-defined vehicle, OEMs are increasingly committed to building their own internal software hubs and areas of expertise. This may give our customers a viable 8 Table of Contents alternative to our products and our competitors' products as OEMs consider the potential value of developing and deploying competitive solutions by investing in their own capabilities. While this may be a viable alternative to our products and services in some instances, we anticipate that their ability to develop competitive technology may not be widely successful given their relative inexperience, leading some of their customers to choose alternative product offerings. With our extensive experience developing attractive solutions for a global automotive market, we believe that our pace of development and deep understanding of the needs of OEMs and their customers will continue to demonstrate the value of bringing Cerence in as an innovation partner. As such, even if OEMs attempt to develop the technology on their own, they may still opt for us at the end of the day. Small, focused competitors. We compete for business directly with certain companies focused on voice-based virtual assistance, including SoundHound in the U.S., iFlyTek in China, and other regional and technology-focused competitors. These companies have had some success selling into our customer base. However, we believe that we have multiple meaningful competitive advantages, including our scale, our globally distributed team, our best-in-class portfolio of compatible languages, and our deep experience and focus on the automotive market. We also believe that our technology, particularly our speech signal enhancement and acoustic tuning, is superior based on benchmarking results against our competitors. We believe we will continue to be able to compete successfully against these competitors as we continue to invest in our offerings. Our industry has attracted, and may continue to attract, new entrants. Although we find that OEMs often prefer to maintain relationships with suppliers that have a proven record of performance, they also rigorously reevaluate suppliers on the basis of product quality, price, reliability and timeliness of delivery, product design capability, technical expertise and development capability, new product innovation, financial viability, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. Research and Development We maintain technical engineering centers in major regions of the world that help develop our software platforms and their underlying components and provide our customers with local engineering capabilities and design development. We employ approximately 700 research and development personnel around the world, including scientists, engineers and technicians. Our total research and development expenses were approximately $97.8 million, $121.6 million and $123.3 million for fiscal years 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We believe that continued investment in research and development will be critical for us to continue to deliver market-leading, AI-powered solutions. Accordingly, we intend to continue to invest in our product portfolio and allocate available capital and resources to our growth opportunities. Customers Our customers include nearly all major OEMs or their tier 1 suppliers worldwide. Our automobile manufacturer customers, commonly referred to as OEMs, include BMW, Mercedes-Benz, the Volkswagen Group (Volkswagen, Audi, Porsche, and other brands), Stellantis, Renault, Toyota, Ford, General Motors, BYD, Great Wall Motor, NIO, and many others and represented approximately 50% of our revenue in fiscal year 2025. Our tier 1 supplier customers, who typically sell automobile components to the OEMs, include HARMAN, EcarX, Bosch, Continental, Denso Ten, Aptiv, and many others and represented approximately 50% of our revenue in fiscal year 2025. Our revenue base is geographically diverse. In fiscal year 2025, approximately 16%, 42% and 42% of our revenue came from the Americas, Europe and Asia, respectively. Sales and Marketing and Professional Services We market our offerings using a high-touch model in which we sell directly to our customers, which include OEMs and suppliers and as described above under Customers. For each of our customers, we assign a cross-functional team to support development and deployment. Our customer contracts are bespoke and vary widely, but 9 Table of Contents generally represent multi-year agreements providing visibility into future revenue and helping to support retention of customer relationships over the long term. Our sales and marketing team includes sales representatives, account managers, sales engineers, product managers, and marketing experts. As we sell our offerings to nearly all major OEMs or their tier one suppliers today, our sales strategy is primarily focused on leveraging our existing customer relationships. Account managers typically have longstanding relationships with specific customers and are distributed worldwide to provide local customer coverage. We often utilize trade shows, customer-specific demo days, and proof-of-concept programs (POCs) to showcase our technology and capabilities to OEMs and tier one suppliers on an individual basis. These events help maintain our market presence and awareness of our platforms offerings while also providing opportunities to solicit feedback and input from our customers on our roadmap and future technologies. Our professional services organization includes approximately 300 employees. These employees work with our customers in the design phase of the vehicle lifecycle to tailor our platform for specific requirements such as branding and also tune the software for the characteristics of a specific vehicle model or models. Our professional services team also provides post-design phase services through maintenance engagements, particularly with respect to our cloud-connected solutions. The tight integration of our platform into our customers design process and their vehicles supports our ability to win future business with those customers. Like our sales representatives, our professional services employees often have longstanding relationships with specific customers and are distributed worldwide to provide local customer coverage. Human Capital Summary In September of 2025, we announced a restructuring plan (the "2025 Plan") intended to reduce operating expenses and position us for profitable growth, which included plans for a reduction in force and the closure of an office facility. The implementation of the 2025 Plan is expected to be substantially complete by the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2026. The charges that we incur are subject to a number of assumptions, including legal requirements in impacted jurisdictions. In August 2024, we announced a restructuring plan (the "2024 Plan") intended to reduce operating expenses and position us for profitable growth, which included a reduction in force. The implementation of the 2024 Plan was substantially complete by the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2025. As of September 30, 2025, we had approximately 1,300 full-time employees, with approximately 300 in professional services, and approximately 700 in research and development. Approximately 93% of our employees are based outside of the United States. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union; however many of our employees in Europe are represented by workers councils or labor unions. Due to the planned closing of one of our facilities as part of the 2025 Plan, we have experienced minimal work stoppages of 12 hours. Culture and Work Environment We are a group of highly motivated collaborators who share a common passion for creating meaningful change in our industry and shaping the future of mobility. We are committed to attracting and retaining the best and brightest talent and building a culture of transparency, trust, and respect that has its foundation in our core values: Innovate Always, Delight Customers, Grow Together, and Have Fun. We proactively nurture our culture by investing in our people, processes and professional development. We understand our people are critical for our continued success and are focused on helping our employees grow at every stage of their careers. To help employees at every level develop professional skills to advance in their careers, we offer employee and manager development training. Through regular seminars and workshops, our people learn diverse skills that include leveraging AI, leadership, negotiating, communicating, goal setting, and more. We provide access to world-class continuing education opportunities and resources including on-demand, self-paced learning opportunities via LinkedIn Learning. Our teams are also continuously connecting through local social events, which bring teams together while promoting engagement, inclusion, and community-service. Our social committees organize numerous events including luncheons, karaoke, archery, yoga, hiking, fun runs, and community cleanup days. We also encourage employees to serve the community by offering compensated volunteer days to employees. In fiscal year 2025, we contributed approximately 500 community service hours globally. 10 Table of Contents Compensation, Rewards and Benefits In addition to competitive base salaries, we provide incentive-based compensation programs to reward performance relative to key metrics. We offer comprehensive benefit options, including retirement savings plans, medical insurance, dental insurance, vision insurance, life and disability insurance, health savings accounts, flexible spending accounts, and paid time off, among others. Intellectual Property As of September 30, 2025, we own 832 patents and patent applications and other intellectual property. Prior to our Spin-Off from Nuance, we entered into an Intellectual Property Agreement, which provides us with certain non-exclusive rights with respect to patents that will continue to be held by Nuance. While no individual patent or group of patents, taken alone, is considered material to our business, in the aggregate, we believe that these patents and rights provide meaningful protection for our products, technologies, and technical innovations. Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider all of the information in this Form 10-K and each of the risks described below, which we believe are the material risks that we face. Some of the risks relate to our business, others to our intellectual property and technology, the securities markets, our indebtedness and ownership of our securities. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Business The market in which we operate is highly competitive and rapidly changing and we may be unable to compete successfully. There are a number of companies that develop or may develop products that compete in the automotive voice assistance market. The market for our products and services is characterized by intense competition, evolving industry and regulatory standards, emerging business and distribution models, disruptive software technology developments, short product and service life cycles, price sensitivity on the part of customers, and frequent new product introductions, including alternatives for certain of our products that offer limited functionality at significantly lower costs or free of charge. In addition, some of our competitors have business objectives that may drive them to sell their alternative offerings at a significant discount to our offerings in the automotive voice assistant market. Current and potential competitors have established, or may establish, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their technologies to address the needs of our prospective customers. Furthermore, existing or prospective customers may decide to develop competing products or have established, or may in the future establish, strategic relationships with our competitors. Alternatively, given the increased availability and effectiveness of AI technologies and other open-source development tools, existing or prospective customers may decide to develop competitive solutions entirely in-house which compete with our product offerings. We also face significant competition with respect to cloud-based solutions in the automotive cognitive assistance market where existing and new competitors may have or have already established significant market share and product offerings. The competition in the automotive cognitive assistance market has and could adversely affect in the future, our operating results by reducing the volume of the products and solutions we license or sell or the prices we can charge. Some of our current or potential competitors are large technology companies that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do, and others are smaller specialized companies that possess automotive expertise or regional focus and may have greater price flexibility than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements or may decide to offer products at low or unsustainable cost to win new business. They may also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do, and in certain cases may be able to include or combine their competitive products or technologies with other of their products or technologies in a manner whereby the competitive functionality is available at lower cost or free of charge within the larger offering. To the extent they do so, penetration of our products, and therefore our revenue, may be adversely affected. Our large competitors may also have greater access to data, including customer data, which provides them with a competitive advantage in developing new products and technologies. Our success depends substantially upon our ability to enhance our products and technologies, to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and features that meet changing customer requirements and incorporate technological enhancements, and to maintain our alignment with the OEMs, their technology and market strategies. If we are unable to develop new products and enhance functionalities or technologies to adapt to these changes and maintain our alignment with OEMs, our business will suffer. 11 Table of Contents Adverse conditions in the automotive industry or the global economy more generally could have adverse effects on our results of operations. Our business depends on, and is directly affected by, the global automotive industry. Automotive production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences, changes in interest rate levels and credit availability, consumer confidence, fuel costs, fuel availability, environmental impact, governmental incentives and regulatory requirements, trade restrictions, customs regulations, tariffs and price or exchange controls, preferences by nations for domestically manufactured products and political volatility, especially in energy-producing countries and large or high growth markets. Such factors have in the past and may in the future also negatively impact consumer demand for automobiles that include features such as our products. In addition, automotive production and sales can be affected by our customers ability to continue operating in response to challenging economic conditions, and in response to labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. For example, the U.S. government and governments of other countries recently adopted tariffs that apply to the automotive industry and may affect the business of our customers, which in turn could impact our own business. In addition, U.S. trade legislation continues to evolve related to barriers on the use of various products and technology from around the world including but not limited to the Securing the Information and Communications Technology and Services Supply Chain: Connected Vehicles regulation promulgated by the U.S. Department of Commerce in December 2024. The Company can provide no assurance that any strategies we implement to mitigate the impact of any trade actions will be successful. The volume of global automotive production has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations give rise to fluctuations in the demand for our products. Any significant adverse change in any of these factors, including, but not limited to, general economic conditions and the resulting bankruptcy of a customer, the closure of a customer manufacturing facility or the ability of a customer manufacturing facility to obtain supplies to manufacture automobiles and to ship or receive shipments of parts, supplies or finished product on prices that are acceptable to them, or imposition of tariffs that affect the prices at which end consumers purchase automobiles, may result in a reduction in automotive sales and production by our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the past couple of years, we have observed increased economic uncertainty in the United States and abroad. Impacts of such economic weakness include: falling overall demand for goods and services, leading to reduced profitability; reduced credit availability; higher borrowing costs; reduced liquidity; recession risks; volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets; and bankruptcies. Events involving limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance or other adverse developments that affect financial institutions or the financial services industry generally, have in the past and may in the future lead to market-wide liquidity problems. If banks or financial institutions where we maintain deposits enter receivership or become insolvent in the future in response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets, then our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents may be threatened and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, if any of our customers, suppliers or other parties with whom we conduct business are unable to access funds pursuant to such instruments or lending arrangements with such a financial institution, such parties ability to pay their obligations to us or to enter into new commercial arrangements requiring additional payments to us could be adversely affected. These developments, along with continued uncertainty about tariffs and trade policies, and the ongoing conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East, have resulted in supply chain disruption, inflation, higher interest rates, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and uncertainty about business continuity, which may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. As our customers react to global political, trade and economic conditions and the potential for a global recession, we may see them increase pricing pressure on us, reduce spending on our products and take additional precautionary measures to limit or delay expenditures and preserve capital and liquidity. Reductions in spending on our solutions, delays in automobile production or purchasing decisions, lack of renewals or the inability to attract new customers, as well as pressure for extended billing terms or pricing discounts, would limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Our process optimization and cost-reduction efforts may not be successful. From time to time, we take actions focused on process optimization and reducing operational costs. For instance, in September 2025, we announced the 2025 Plan with respect to certain foreign operations intended to streamline certain operations and simplify our organizational structure. Similarly, in August 2024, we announced the 2024 Plan intended to reduce operating expenses and position us for profitable growth, which plan was substantially complete by the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2025. The implementation of these types of plans may be disruptive to our operations, result in higher than anticipated restructuring charges, including severance payments, payments in lieu of notice, employee benefits and related costs, and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additional risks associated with the continuing impact of these plans include employee attrition, the ability to hire new employees in the future, diversion of management attention, and adverse effects on employee morale. In addition, our ability to complete the 2025 Plan or any plan we may announce in the future and achieve the anticipated benefits from such plan within the expected time frame, or at all, is subject to managements estimates and assumptions and may vary materially from our expectations, including as a result of factors that are beyond our control. If we do not realize the expected benefits of the 2025 Plan or any plan we may announce in the future on a timely basis, or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, following completion of the 2025 Plan or any plan we may announce in the future, our business may not be more efficient or effective than prior to the implementation of such plan. Our failure to successfully control our expenses could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our strategy to increase cloud connected services may adversely affect our near-term revenue growth and results of operations. Our leadership position has historically been derived from our products and services based on edge software technology. We have been and are continuing to develop new products and services that incorporate cloud-connected components. The design and development of new cloud-connected components will involve significant expense. Our research and development costs have increased in recent years and, together with certain expenses associated with delivering our connected services, could continue to escalate in the near future. We may encounter difficulties with designing, developing and releasing new cloud-connected components, as well as integrating these components with our existing hybrid technologies. These development issues may further increase costs and may affect our ability to innovate in a manner demanded by the market. As a result, our strategy to incorporate more cloud-connected components may adversely affect our revenue growth and results of operations. Pricing pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience pricing pressure from our customers, including from the strong purchasing power of major OEMs. As a developer of automotive cognitive assistance components, we have been in the past, and may be in the future, expected to quote fixed prices or be forced to accept prices with annual price reduction commitments for long-term sales arrangements or discounted reimbursements for our work. We have in the past, and may in the future, encounter customers unwilling to accept the terms of our software license or non-recurring engineering agreements. Any price reductions could impact our sales and profit margins. Our future profitability will depend upon, among other things, our ability to continuously reduce the costs for our components and maintain our cost structure. Our profitability is also influenced by our success in designing and marketing technological improvements in automotive cognitive assistance systems. If we are unable to offset any price reductions in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We invest effort and money seeking OEMs validation of our technology, and there can be no assurance that we will win or be able to renew service contracts, which could adversely affect our future business, results of operations and financial condition. We invest effort and money from the time an OEM or a tier 1 supplier begins designing for an upcoming program to the date on which the customer chooses our technology to be incorporated directly or indirectly into one or more specific vehicle models to be produced by the customer. This selection process is known as a design win. We could expend our resources without success, and in the past we have not always been selected despite the investment of effort and money. After a design win, it is typically quite difficult for a product or technology that did not receive the design win to displace the winner until the customer begins a new selection process because it is very unlikely that a customer will change complex technology until a vehicle model is revamped. In addition, the company with the winning design may have an advantage with the customer going forward because of the established relationship between the winning company and such customer, which could make it more difficult for such companys competitors to win the designs for other service 13 Table of Contents contracts. Even if we have an established relationship with a customer, any failure to perform under a service contract or innovate in response to their feedback may neutralize our advantage with that customer. If we fail to win a significant number of customer design competitions in the future or to renew a significant number of existing service contracts, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. The period of time from winning a contract to implementation is long and we are subject to the risks of cancellation or postponement of the contract or unsuccessful implementation. If we are unable to renew existing service contracts, deferred revenue may be negatively impacted. Our products are technologically complex and incorporate many technological innovations. The increasing complexity of software in automobiles has created substantial challenges for some OEMs, leading to potential delays for a new program to launch. Moreover, prospective customers generally must make significant commitments of resources to test and validate our products before including them in any particular vehicle model. The development cycles of our products with new customers are approximately six months to two years after a design win, depending on the customer and the complexity of the product. These development cycles result in us investing our resources prior to realizing any revenues from the customer contracts. Further, we are subject to the risk that a customer cancels or postpones implementation of our technology, as well as the risk that we will not be able to implement our technology successfully. Further, our sales could be less than forecast if the vehicle model is unsuccessful, including reasons unrelated to our technology. Long development cycles and product cancellations or postponements may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we lost any of our largest customers. The loss of business from any of our major customers, including as a result of lower overall demand for vehicles, automotive production curtailment or delays, cancellation of existing contracts or the failure to award us new business, has in the past and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Alternatively, there is a risk that one or more of our major customers could be unable to pay our invoices as they become due or that a customer will simply refuse to make such payments given its financial difficulties. If a major customer becomes subject to bankruptcy or similar proceedings whereby contractual commitments are subject to stay of execution and the possibility of legal or other modification, or if a major customer otherwise successfully procures protection against us legally enforcing its obligations, it is likely that we will be forced to record a substantial loss. In addition, certain of our customers that are tier 1 suppliers exclusively sell to certain OEMs, including some of our other customers. A bankruptcy of, or other significant disruption to, any of these OEMs could intensify any adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate materially in the future. These fluctuations may cause our results of operations to not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors which would likely cause the price of our stock to decline. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations in operating results include: given our limited customer base, the volume, timing and fulfillment of large customer contracts; renewals of existing customer contracts and wins of new customer programs; changes in customer forecasts; our mix of variable, fixed prepaid or fixed minimum purchase commitment license contracts; increased expenditures incurred pursuing new product or market opportunities; the timing of the receipt and accuracy of royalty reports; fluctuating sales by our customers to their end-users; level of professional services projects; contractual counterparties failing to meet their contractual commitments to us; introduction of new products by us or our competitors; cybersecurity or data breaches; 14 Table of Contents reduction in the prices of our products in response to competition, market conditions or contractual obligations; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; accounts receivable that are not collectible; higher than anticipated costs related to fixed-price contracts with our customers; change in costs and demand for our products due to tariffs, or regulatory or trade restrictions; expenses incurred in litigation matters, whether initiated by us or brought by third-parties against us, and settlements or judgments we are required to pay in connection with disputes; changes in our stock compensation practices, as it relates to employee incentive payments; and general economic trends as they affect the customer bases into which we sell. Due to the foregoing factors, among others, our financial and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our expense levels are based in significant part on our expectations of future revenue, and we may not be able to reduce our expenses quickly to respond to near-term shortfalls in projected revenue. Therefore, our failure to meet revenue expectations would seriously harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We may not be successful with the adoption of new products. Part of our growth strategy includes the successful introduction of new products that will rely on subscription or transactional-based revenue generation. These represent new applications and we cannot assure the introduction of these new products, the level of adoption of these new products, or how quickly they can ramp to generate meaningful revenue. The development and launch of new products will require maintaining adequate resources, such as the appropriate personnel and technology to develop such products. We may experience delays between the time we incur expenses associated with the development and launch of new products and the revenue generated from the products. In addition, anticipated demand for the new products could decrease after we have spent time and resources on the development of the new product, or our efforts may not lead to the successful introduction of new products that are competitive, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract and retain management and other key personnel, our business could be harmed. If any of our management or other key employees were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Although we have arrangements with some of our executive officers designed to promote retention, our employment relationships are generally at-will and we have had management and other key employees leave in the past. We cannot assure you that one or more management or other key employees will not leave in the future. The departure of key leadership personnel, in particular, can take significant knowledge and experience from the Company. While this loss of knowledge and experience can be mitigated through a successful transition, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts. If we do not successfully manage the transition of management positions, it could be viewed negatively by our customers, employees or investors and could have an adverse impact on our business and strategic direction. A change in senior management, such as we experienced over the past few years, also could result in our future strategy and plans differing from those of the past. In August 2024 and September 2025, we announced restructuring plans, including reductions in force, intended to reduce operating expenses and position us for profitable growth. These reductions and any additional measures we might take to reduce costs could yield unanticipated consequences, such as straining our workforce, diverting management attention, yielding attrition beyond our intended workforce reduction, or reducing employee morale. Further, we intend to continue to hire additional highly qualified personnel, including research and development and operational personnel, but may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. Any failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain these employees could harm our business. We depend on skilled employees and could be impacted by a shortage of critical skills. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled employees, particularly with respect to technical areas. Skilled and experienced personnel in the areas where we compete are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. We expect that many of our key employees will receive a total compensation package that includes equity awards. We are limited in the amount of equity awards that we may issue under the terms of our equity incentive plans. Further, new regulations or volatility in the stock market could diminish our use, 15 Table of Contents and the value, of our equity awards. These issues could place us at a competitive disadvantage in attracting qualified personnel or force us to offer more cash compensation. Some of our employees are represented by workers councils or unions or are subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the U.S. Most of our employees in Europe are represented by workers councils or unions. Although we believe we have a good working relationship with our employees and their legal representatives, they must approve any changes in terms which may impede efforts to restructure our workforce. Cybersecurity and data privacy incidents or breaches may damage client relations and inhibit our growth. The confidentiality and security of our information, and that of third parties, is critical to our business. In particular, our services involve the transmission, use, and storage of customers and their customers information, which may be confidential or contain personally identifiable information. Our internal computer systems and those of our current or future service providers, contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Attacks on information technology systems are increasing in their frequency, levels of persistence, sophistication and intensity, and they are being conducted by increasingly sophisticated and organized groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. The prevalent use of mobile devices also increases the risk of data security incidents. While we maintain a broad array of information security and privacy measures, policies and practices, our networks may be breached through a variety of means, resulting in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our information, to information of our customers or their customers, or to our intellectual property; disabling or degrading service; or sabotaging systems or information. In addition, hardware, software, systems, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors, and vendors. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. While we have not experienced any material system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations or the operations of third-party service providers, contractors and consultants, it could result in significant reputational, financial, legal, regulatory, business or operational harm. Any cybersecurity or data privacy incident or breach may result in: loss of revenue resulting from the operational disruption; loss of revenue or increased credit loss expense due to the inability to invoice properly or to customer dissatisfaction resulting in collection issues; loss of revenue due to loss of customers; material remediation costs to recreate or restore systems; material investments in new or enhanced systems in order to enhance our information security posture; cost of incentives offered to customers to restore confidence and maintain business relationships; reputational damage resulting in the failure to retain or attract customers; costs associated with potential litigation or governmental investigations, enforcement actions or regulatory fines; claims by third parties asserting that we have breached our privacy, confidentiality, data security or similar obligations; costs associated with any required notices of a data breach; costs associated with the potential loss of critical business data; difficulties enhancing or creating new products due to loss of data or data integrity issues; and 16 Table of Contents other consequences of which we are not currently aware of but will discover through the remediation process. In addition, our liability insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related breaches. While we expect to continue to incur significant costs to continuously enhance our information security measures to defend against the threat of cybercrime, there can be no assurance that such measures will successfully prevent service interruptions, data security incidents and other security breaches. Any cybersecurity or data privacy incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with global privacy and data security requirements could result in additional costs and liabilities to us or inhibit our ability to collect and process data globally, and the failure to comply with such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Privacy and data security have become significant issues in the U.S., Europe and in many other jurisdictions where we conduct or may in the future conduct our operations. The regulatory framework for the collection, use, safeguarding, sharing and transfer of information worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Globally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data security and privacy frameworks with which we must comply. Notably, for example, on May 25, 2018, the European General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679, which is commonly referred to as GDPR, took effect. The GDPR applies to any company established in the European Economic Area (EEA) as well as any company outside the EEA that collects or otherwise processes personal data in connection with the offering of goods or services to individuals in the EEA or the monitoring of their behavior. The GDPR enhances data protection obligations for processors and controllers of personal data, including providing information to individuals regarding data processing activities, implementing safeguards to protect the security and confidentiality of personal data, providing notification of data breaches, requirements to conduct data protection impact assessments and taking certain measures when engaging third-party processors. The GDPR imposes additional obligations and risk upon our business and substantially increases the penalties to which we could be subject in the event of any non-compliance. Failure to comply with the requirements of the GDPR may result in potential fines. The GDPR also confers a private right of action on data subjects and nonprofit organizations, acting subject to a mandate granted by the data subject, to lodge complaints with supervisory authorities, seek judicial remedies, and obtain compensation for damages resulting from violations of the GDPR. Further, European data protection laws also prohibit the transfer of personal data from the EEA and Switzerland to third countries that are not considered to provide adequate protections for personal data, including the U.S., unless certain measures are in place. The European Commission has issued standard contractual clauses for data transfers from controllers or processors in the EU (or otherwise subject to the GDPR) to controllers or processors established outside the EU. The new standard contractual clauses require exporters to assess the risk of a data transfer on a case-by-case basis, including an analysis of the laws in the destination country. Further, the EU and United States have adopted its adequacy decision for the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework ("Framework"), which entered into force on July 11, 2023. This Framework provides that the protection of personal data transferred between the EU and the United States is comparable to that offered in the EU. This provides a further avenue to ensuring transfers to the United States are carried out in line with GDPR. There has been an extension to the Framework to cover Swiss transfers to the United States. The Framework could be challenged like its predecessor frameworks. This complexity and the additional contractual burden increase our overall risk exposure. There may be further divergence in the future, including with regard to administrative burdens. In addition, we are subject to Swiss data protection laws, including the Federal Act on Data Protection, or the FADP. While the FADP provides broad protections to personal data, on September 25, 2020, the Swiss federal Parliament enacted a revised version of the FADP, which became effective September 1, 2023. The new version of the FADP aligns Swiss data protection law with the GDPR. Further, in addition to existing European data protection law, a further European Union regulation is being proposed. The proposed regulation, known as the Regulation on Privacy and Electronic Communications, or ePrivacy Regulation, would replace the current ePrivacy Directive. New rules related to the ePrivacy Regulation are likely to include enhanced consent requirements in order to use communications content and communications metadata, as well as obligations and restrictions on the processing of data from an end-users terminal equipment. The new ePrivacy Regulation is expected to have the same penalty regime as the GDPR. Negotiations for the ePrivacy Regulation are still ongoing as of the date of this report, and there is no final text or date for entry into force. Once agreed, the ePrivacy Regulation will come into force in two years from the twentieth day following its publication. 17 Table of Contents As another prominent example, we are also subject to data protection regulation in the UK. Following the UKs withdrawal from the EU on January 31, 2020 and the end of the transitional arrangements agreed between the UK and EU as of January 1, 2021, the GDPR has been incorporated into UK domestic law. United Kingdom-based organizations doing business in the European Union will need to continue to comply with the GDPR. Although the UK is regarded as a third country under the EUs GDPR, the European Commission recognizes the UK as providing adequate protection under the EU GDPR and, therefore, transfers of personal data originating in the EU to the UK remain unrestricted. Like the EU GDPR, the UK GDPR restricts personal data transfers outside the UK to countries not regarded by the UK as providing adequate protection. The UK government has confirmed that personal data transfers from the UK to the EEA remain free flowing. The Information Commissioners Office, or ICO, has recently introduced new mechanisms for international transfers of personal data originating from the UK (an International Data Transfer Agreement, or IDTA, along with a separate addendum to the EU SCCs). There has also been an extension to the Framework to cover UK transfers to the United States. We will be required to implement these new safeguards when conducting restricted cross-border data transfers and doing so will require significant effort and cost. In addition to European data protection requirements, we face a growing body of privacy and data security requirements in the United States. At the legislative level, the CCPA, which became operative on January 1, 2020 and broadly defines personal information, gives California residents expanded privacy rights and protections, and provides for civil penalties for violations and a private right of action for data breaches. Additionally, the CPRA, a ballot initiative approved in November 2020, which went into effect on January 1, 2023 significantly modified the CCPA, including by expanding consumers rights and establishing a new state agency that has authority to implement and enforce the CCPA. Numerous other states have passed comparable legislation and many others are considering proposals for similar broad consumer privacy laws. Moreover, other states have enacted privacy laws with a more limited scope, such as the state of Washington which has enacted legislation that is focused on health privacy and a small number of states have enacted laws that target biometric privacy. Furthermore, the United States Federal Trade Commission and many state attorney generals are interpreting existing federal and state consumer protection laws as imposing standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data. The regulatory framework governing the collection, processing, storage, use and sharing of certain information, particularly financial and other personal data, is rapidly evolving and is likely to continue to be subject to uncertainty and varying interpretations. In addition to new and strengthened laws and regulations in the U.S., European Union, and United Kingdom, many foreign jurisdictions have passed new laws, strengthened existing laws, or are contemplating new laws regulating personal data. For example, we are subject to stringent privacy and data protection requirements in many countries including Singapore and Japan. Additional jurisdictions with stringent data protection laws include Brazil and China. We also continue to see jurisdictions, such as Russia, imposing data localization laws, which under Russian laws require personal information of Russian citizens to be, among other data processing operations, initially collected, stored, and modified in Russia. Preparing for and complying with the evolving application of these laws has required and will continue to require us to incur substantial operational costs and may interfere with our intended business activities, inhibit our ability to expand into certain markets or prohibit us from continuing to offer services in those markets without significant additional costs. It is possible that these laws may impose, or may be interpreted and applied to impose, requirements that are inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our services and platform capabilities. Any failure or perceived failure by us, or any third parties with which we do business, to comply with our posted privacy policies, changing consumer expectations, evolving laws, rules and regulations, industry standards, or contractual obligations to which we or such third parties are or may become subject, may result in actions or other claims against us by governmental entities or private actors, the expenditure of substantial costs, time and other resources, may cause our customers to lose confidence in our solutions, harm our reputation, expose us to litigation, regulatory investigations and resulting liabilities including reimbursement of customer costs, damages, penalties or fines imposed by regulatory agencies; and require us to incur significant expenses for remediation. The development and use of artificial intelligence (AI) presents risks and challenges that can impact our business including by posing security risks to our confidential information, proprietary information, and personal data and could give rise to legal and/or regulatory actions, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. We develop and incorporate AI technology in certain of our products and services and plan to develop and incorporate additional AI technology in future products and services. Issues in the development and use of AI, including generative AI tools and large language models, combined with an uncertain regulatory environment, may result in reputational harm, liability, or other adverse consequences to our business operations. AI presents risks, challenges, and unintended consequences that could affect our and our customers adoption and use of this technology. AI algorithms and training methodologies may be flawed. Additionally, AI technologies are complex and rapidly evolving, and we face 18 Table of Contents significant competition in the market and from other companies regarding such technologies. Our vendors may incorporate generative AI tools into their offerings without disclosing this use to us, and the providers of these generative AI tools may not meet existing or rapidly evolving regulatory or industry standards with respect to privacy and data protection and may inhibit our or our vendors ability to maintain an adequate level of service and experience. If we, our vendors, or our third-party partners experience an actual or perceived breach of privacy or security incident because of the use of AI, we may lose valuable intellectual property and confidential information and our reputation and the public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed. Further, bad actors around the world use increasingly sophisticated methods, including the use of AI, to engage in illegal activities involving the theft and misuse of personal information, confidential information, and intellectual property. On the regulatory front, recent state legislative developments in the United States have introduced emerging compliance risks for companies that develop or deploy AI technologies. Certain states, such as Texas, California and Colorado have enacted legislation which imposes or will impose novel requirements on AI developers and users. We do not expect these legislative acts to present a material risk to us individually, given the nature of our operations and the locations in which we conduct business. However, these state-level initiatives reflect a growing trend toward AI regulation in the absence of federal legislation. As a result, we may face a fragmented and evolving compliance landscape that could increase operational complexity, regulatory scrutiny, and legal exposure associated with our use or development of AI technologies. While we aim to develop and use AI responsibly and attempt to identify and mitigate ethical and legal issues presented by its use, we may be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. AI-related issues, deficiencies and/or failures could: give rise to legal and/or regulatory actions, including with respect to legislation regulating AI in jurisdictions such as the EEA, and as a result of new applications of existing data protection, privacy, intellectual property, and other laws; damage our reputation; or otherwise materially harm our business. In addition, we generate professional services revenue from our work with customers during the design, development and deployment phases of the vehicle model lifecycle and through maintenance and enhancement projects. As our professional services offerings become more standardized across our customer base, we may observe less revenues due to decreased integration time required. In addition, the use of AI technologies, or other increasingly pervasive open source development tools, by our customers to accomplish these tasks internally could have a negative impact on our business and the revenues that we derive from the provision of professional services. A significant portion of our revenues are derived, and a significant portion of our research and development activities are based, outside the United States. Our results could be harmed by economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with these international regions and foreign currency fluctuations. Because we operate worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We generate most of our international revenue in Europe and Asia, and we anticipate that revenue from international operations will increase in the future. In addition, some of our products are developed outside the United States. We conduct a significant portion of the development of our voice recognition and natural language understanding solutions in Canada and Germany. We also have significant research and development resources in Belgium, China, India, Italy, and the United Kingdom. We are exposed to fluctuating exchange rates of foreign currencies, including the euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Chinese RMB, Japanese yen, Indian rupee and South Korean won. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors associated with international sales and operations, including: adverse political and economic conditions, or changes to such conditions, in a specific region or country; trade protection measures, including tariffs and import/export controls, imposed by the United States and/or by other countries or regional authorities such as China, Canada or the European Union; changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the lack of ability to hedge certain foreign currencies; 19 Table of Contents compliance with laws and regulations in many countries, including with respect to data protection, anticorruption, labor relations, tax, foreign currency, anti-competition, import, export and trade regulations, and any subsequent changes in such laws and regulations; geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war, such as the ongoing conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East; changing data privacy regulations and customer requirements to locate data centers in certain jurisdictions; evolving restrictions on cross-border investment, including recent enhancements to the oversight by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States pursuant to the Foreign Investment Risk Preview Modernization Act and substantial restrictions on investment from China; changes in applicable tax laws; difficulties in staffing and managing operations in multiple locations in many countries; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions; and less effective protection of intellectual property than in the United States. Our business in China is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic, market and political conditions. We operate in the highly competitive automotive cognitive assistance market in China and face competition from both international and smaller domestic manufacturers. We anticipate that additional competitors, both domestic and international, may seek to enter the Chinese market resulting in increased competition. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. There have been periods of increased market volatility and moderation in the levels of economic growth in China, which resulted in periods of lower automotive production growth rates in China than those previously experienced. In addition, political tensions between China and the United States may negatively impact our ability to conduct business in China. If we are unable to grow or maintain our position in the Chinese market, the pace of growth slows or vehicle sales in China decrease, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Government regulations and business considerations may also require us to conduct business in China through joint ventures with Chinese companies. Our participation in joint ventures would limit our control over Chinese operations and may expose our proprietary technologies to misappropriation by joint venture partners. The above risks, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Interruptions or delays in our services or services from data center hosting facilities or public clouds could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. Because our services are complex and incorporate a variety of third-party hardware and software, our services may have errors or defects that could result in unanticipated downtime for our customers and harm to our reputation and our business. We have from time to time, found defects in our services, and new errors in our services may be detected in the future. In addition, we currently serve our customers from data center hosting facilities or third-party public clouds we directly manage. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems and facilities that serve our customers in whole or in part could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay service level agreement penalties, cause customers to terminate their on-demand services, and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We have significant intangible assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, which are susceptible to valuation adjustments as a result of changes in various factors or conditions. The most significant intangible assets are goodwill, customer relationships and patents and core technologies. Customer relationships are amortized over their estimated economic lives based on the pattern of economic benefits expected to be generated from the use of the asset. Technologies and patents are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. We assess the potential impairment of goodwill on an annual basis. Whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, we will be required to assess the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. Factors that could trigger an impairment of such assets include the following: 20 Table of Contents changes in our organization or management reporting structure that could result in additional reporting units, which may require alternative methods of estimating fair values or greater disaggregation or aggregation in our analysis by reporting unit; significant under performance relative to historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the strategy for our overall business; significant negative industry or economic trends; significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; and our market capitalization declining to below net book value. During the fiscal years ended September 30, 2025 and 2023, we did not have goodwill impairment. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2024, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $609.2 million within the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Future adverse changes in the above or other unforeseeable factors could result in additional impairment charges that would impact our results of operations and financial position in the reporting period identified. Health Events, such as pandemics and disease outbreaks, have disrupted, and may continue to disrupt, our business and that of our customers, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our business depends on, and is directly affected by, the output and sales of the global automotive industry and the use of automobiles by consumers. Health events, such as pandemics and disease outbreaks, have disrupted, and may in the future again disrupt, global automotive industry sales and production volumes. As a result of such events, we have seen, and could again see, supply chain challenges in the automotive industry related to semiconductor devices that are used in automobiles that resulted in difficulties in entering into new contracts with our customers, a decline in revenues resulting from the decrease in the production and sale of automobiles by our customers, increased difficulties in collecting payment obligations from our customers and slowing or termination of our customers projects with us. These may be further exacerbated by potential global economic downturns that could result from future pandemics or disease outbreaks, which could further decrease consumer demand for vehicles or result in the financial distress of one or more of our customers. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property and Technology Third parties have claimed and may claim in the future that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could be exposed to significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products if such claims are successful. From time to time, we are subject to claims and legal actions alleging that we or our customers may be infringing or contributing to the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technologies and products. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses for these intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses from some or all claimants, the terms of any offered licenses may not be acceptable to us, and we may not be able to resolve disputes without litigation. Any litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from licensing certain of our products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various arrangements. Any of these could seriously harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success and competitive position depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property rights protecting our products and services. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or discover aspects of our products or to obtain, license, sell or otherwise use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we may not be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use. Additionally, our competitors may independently 21 Table of Contents develop technologies that are substantially the same or superior to our technologies and that do not infringe our rights. In these cases, we would be unable to prevent our competitors from selling or licensing these similar or superior technologies. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, including our patents, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. For example, we have initiated legal proceedings to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or the terms of existing agreements against multiple third parties. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, can be very expensive and can divert managements efforts, which could harm our business and financial results, and third parties may have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to these legal actions than us. The potential outcomes of litigation are unpredictable and, as a result, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in any such litigation or, if we prevail, what remedies might be awarded. Also, our success with respect to litigation in one case may not necessarily mean that we will be successful in enforcing our intellectual property rights in a different situation. Moreover, such litigation has resulted, and may in the future result, in counterclaims against us which may be costly to defend and could subject us to significant liabilities or cause severe disruptions to our business. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property rights, which could harm the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. Our software products may have bugs, which could result in delayed or lost revenue, expensive correction, liability to our customers and claims against us. Complex software products such as ours may contain errors, defects or bugs. Defects in the solutions or products that we develop and sell to our customers could require expensive corrections and result in delayed or lost revenue, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about us or our products and services. Customers who are not satisfied with any of our products may also bring claims against us for damages, which, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming to defend, and could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. Such claims could harm our reputation, financial results and competitive position. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to changes in technology and technological risks and to develop our intellectual property into commercially viable products. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or in competitive technologies may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive to our customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to be competitive. There is a risk that we will not be able to achieve the technological advances that may be necessary for us to be competitive or that certain of our products will become obsolete. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We utilize certain key technologies, content and services from, and integrate certain of our solutions with, third parties and may be unable to replace those technologies, content and services if they become obsolete, unavailable or incompatible with our solutions. We utilize certain key technologies and content from, and/or integrate certain of our solutions with, hardware, software, services and content of third parties. Some of these vendors are also our competitors in various respects. These third-party vendors could, in the future, seek to charge us cost prohibitive fees for such use or integration or may design or utilize their solutions in a manner that makes it more difficult for us to continue to utilize their solutions, or integrate their technologies with our solutions, in the same manner or at all. Any significant interruption in the supply or maintenance of such third-party hardware, software, services or content could negatively impact our ability to offer our solutions unless and until we replace the functionality provided by this third-party hardware, software and/or content. In addition, we are dependent upon these third parties ability to enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. There can be no assurance that we would be able to replace the functionality or content provided by third-party vendors in the event that such technologies become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our solutions or are otherwise not adequately maintained or updated. Any delay in or inability to replace any such functionality could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, delays in the release of new and upgraded versions 22 Table of Contents of third-party software applications could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to the Spin-Off The allocation of intellectual property rights and data between Nuance and Cerence as part of the Spin-Off, the shared use of certain intellectual property rights and data following the Spin-Off and restrictions on the use of intellectual property rights, could adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain intellectual property rights that are important to us and our competitive position. In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into agreements with Nuance governing the allocation of intellectual property rights and data related to our business. These agreements include restrictions on our use of Nuances intellectual property rights and data licensed to us. Moreover, the licenses granted to us under Nuances intellectual property rights and data are non-exclusive, so Nuance may be able to license the rights and data to third parties that may compete with us. These agreements could adversely affect our position and options relating to intellectual property enforcement, licensing negotiations and monetization and access to data used in our business. We also may not have sufficient rights to grant sublicenses of intellectual property or data used in our business, and may be subject to third party rights pertaining to the underlying intellectual property or data, and may be unsuccessful in remedying any breaches of these agreements. These circumstances could adversely affect our ability to protect our competitive position in the industry and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Securities and Indebtedness We may evaluate whether to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future. We have not paid any dividends since our formation. Our Board's decisions regarding the payment of dividends depends on consideration of many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, sufficiency of distributable reserves, opportunities to retain future earnings for use in the operation of our business and to fund future growth, capital requirements, debt service obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that our Board deems relevant. There can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if we do commence paying dividends. Servicing our debt may require a significant amount of cash. We may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our indebtedness, and we may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle for cash conversions of our outstanding 1.50% convertible senior notes due July 1, 2028 ($210 million of which were outstanding as of September 30, 2025, the "2028 Notes") or to repurchase the 2028 Notes for cash upon a fundamental change, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In June 2020, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $175 million 3.00% convertible senior notes due June 1, 2025, the 2025 Notes. In June 2023, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $210 million of the 2028 Notes (together with the 2025 Notes and the 2025 Modified Notes (as defined below), the Notes). The interest rate for the 2028 Notes is fixed at 1.50% per annum and is payable semi-annually in arrears on January 1 and July 1 of each year. We repurchased $87.5 million of the 2025 Notes with a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the 2028 Notes. The remaining outstanding principal balance on the 2025 Notes and accrued interest was repaid in its entirety at maturity during the three months ended June 30, 2025. We may also incur additional indebtedness to meet future financing needs. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our stockholders and our business, results of operations and financial condition by, among other things: (a) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; (b) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; (c) requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes; (d) limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business; (e) diluting the interests of our existing stockholders as a result of issuing our common stock upon conversion of the 2028 Notes; and (f) placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with competitors that are less leveraged than us or have better access to capital. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, including the 2028 Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flows from operations in the future that are sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flows, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining 23 Table of Contents additional debt financing or equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance any future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. In addition, any future debt agreements may contain restrictive covenants that may prohibit us from adopting any of these alternatives. Holders of the 2028 Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their 2028 Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the 2028 Notes) at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2028 Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Upon conversion, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the 2028 Notes being converted. We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases in connection with such conversion and our ability to pay may additionally be limited by law, by regulatory authority, or by agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase the 2028 Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture governing the 2028 Notes or to pay any cash payable on future conversions as required by such indenture would constitute a default under such indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the 2028 Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. We may require additional financing, and we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. Any debt financing obtained by us could involve restrictive covenants relating to financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could experience significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. The terms of any debt financing may include liquidity requirements, restrict our ability to pay dividends, and require us to comply with other restrictive covenants. In addition, our current and/or future indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could: make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry, and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for funding acquisitions, for working capital, and for other general corporate purposes; and make an acquisition of our company less attractive or more difficult. Any of these factors could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase. The conditional conversion feature of the 2028 Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common stock. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the 2028 Notes is triggered, holders of the 2028 Notes will be entitled to convert the 2028 Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their 2028 Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their 2028 Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 2028 Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. The conversion of some or all of the 2028 Notes would dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering shares of our common stock upon any conversion of such 2028 Notes. Our 2028 Notes may become in the future convertible at the option of their holders under 24 Table of Contents certain circumstances. If holders of our 2028 Notes elect to convert their 2028 Notes, we may settle our conversion obligation by delivering to them a significant number of shares of our common stock, which would cause dilution to our existing stockholders. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the 2028 Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. Under FASB ASC Subtopic 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, or ASC 470-20, an issuer was required to separately account for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments (such as the 2028 Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuers economic interest cost. ASC 470-20 requires the value of the conversion options of the 2028 Notes, representing the equity component, to be recorded as additional paid-in capital within stockholders equity in our consolidated balance sheet and as a discount to the 2028 Notes, which reduced their initial carrying value. The carrying value of the 2028 Notes, net of the applicable discount recorded, were accreted up to the principal amount of the 2028 Notes, as the case may be, from the issuance date until maturity, which resulted in non-cash charges to interest expense in our consolidated statement of operations. In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ASU 2020-06, or ASU 2020-06, with the intent to simplify ASC 470-20 and ASC subtopic 815-40, Contracts in Entitys Own Equity, or ASC 815-40. Among the changes, ASU 2020-06 removed the requirement to bifurcate the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments (such as the 2028 Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion. The removal of the bifurcation of liability and equity components eliminated non-cash interest expense corresponding to the amounts recorded within equity. In addition, ASU 2020-06 precludes the use of the treasury stock method, when calculating diluted earnings per share, for convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion. We adopted ASU 2020-06 on October 1, 2022 using the modified retrospective approach. Please see Note 2(t) for further discussion. We currently apply the if-converted method for calculating any potential dilutive effect of the conversion options embedded in the 2028 Notes on diluted net income per share, which assumes that all of the 2028 Notes were converted solely into shares of common stock at the beginning of the reporting period, unless the result would be anti-dilutive. The application of the if-converted method may reduce our reported diluted net income per share to the extent we are profitable, and accounting standards may change in the future in a manner that may otherwise adversely affect our diluted net income per share. Certain provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws and Delaware law may discourage takeovers. Several provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated By-Laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition. These include, among others, provisions that: do not permit our stockholders to act by written consent and require that stockholder action must take place at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders, in each case except as such rights may otherwise be provided to holders of preferred stock; establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations and proposals; provide that a special meeting of our stockholders may only be called by our Board, the Chairman of our Board or our Chief Executive Officer, or at the request of holders of not less than 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock; and limit our ability to enter into certain business combination transactions. These and other provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated By-Laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or a threatened acquisition or change in control of Cerence, including unsolicited takeover attempts, even though the transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their shares of our common stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Our organizational documents designate the courts within the State of Delaware or the U.S. district courts as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could 25 Table of Contents limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides, in all cases to the fullest extent permitted by law, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of Cerence, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee or stockholder of Cerence to Cerence or Cerences stockholders, any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, or as to which the DGCL confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine or any other action asserting an internal corporate claim as that term is defined in Section 115 of the DGCL. However, if the Court of Chancery within the State of Delaware does not have jurisdiction, the action may be brought in any other state or federal court located within the State of Delaware. Further, this exclusive forum provision would not apply to claims brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except that it may apply to such claims if brought derivatively on behalf of Cerence. Our Second Amended and Restated By-Laws further provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States of America are the sole and exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or the respective rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to these provisions. These provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits. Alternatively, if a court were to find any of these provisions inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions. General Risk Factors Tax matters may cause significant variability in our financial results and may impact our overall financial condition. Our businesses are subject to income taxation in the United States, as well as in many tax jurisdictions throughout the world. Tax rates in these jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. If our effective tax rate increases, our operating results and cash flow could be adversely affected. Our effective income tax rate can vary significantly between periods due to a number of complex factors including: projected levels of taxable income; pre-tax income being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory rates or higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory rates; increases or decreases to valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets; tax audits conducted and settled by various tax authorities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of income tax returns; the ability to claim foreign tax credits; the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for income taxes; changes in tax laws and their interpretations in countries in which we are subject to taxation; and changes to assessments of uncertain tax positions. We regularly evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. This analysis is heavily dependent upon our current and projected operating results. A decline in future operating results could provide substantial evidence that a full or partial valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is necessary, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents The commercial and credit environment may adversely affect our access to, and the cost of, capital. Our ability to issue debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for our products or in the solvency of our customers or suppliers or if there are other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions. Volatility in the world financial markets, including the recent increases in interest and inflation rates, could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to access the capital markets. These conditions may adversely affect our ability to obtain targeted credit ratings. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategies; competition and industry capacity; changes in interest rates and other factors that affect earnings and cash flow; our level of indebtedness, our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our ability to obtain financing as needed; our ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; the failure of securities analysts to cover, or positively cover, our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of our company and our industry; overall market fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance; results from any material litigation or government investigation; changes in laws and regulations (including tariffs, trade regulations, and tax laws and regulations) affecting our business; changes in capital gains taxes and taxes on dividends affecting stockholders; and general economic and political conditions, government shutdowns, war, conflict or other political instability, and other external factors. Low trading volume for our stock would amplify the effect of the above factors on our stock price volatility. Should the market price of our shares drop significantly, stockholders may institute securities class action lawsuits against us. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources. Your percentage ownership in Cerence may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership in Cerence may be diluted in the future because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that we grant to our directors, officers, employees and other service providers. Our Board has adopted the Cerence 2019 Equity Incentive Plan, as well as the 2024 Inducement Plan, for the benefit of certain of our current and future employees, service providers and non-employee directors. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents In addition, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and distributions, as our Board may generally determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of the members of our Board in all events or upon the happening of specified events, or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences that we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. From time to time, we may opportunistically evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities, including acquisitions for which the consideration thereof may consist partially or entirely of newly-issued shares of our common stock and, therefore, such transactions, if consummated, would dilute the voting power and/or reduce the value of our common stock. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors views of us could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure