Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include the estimated variable consideration included in the transaction price in our contracts with customers and equity-based compensation. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we regularly monitor our compliance with applicable financial reporting standards and review new pronouncements and drafts thereof that are relevant to us. As a result of new standards, changes to existing standards and changes in their interpretation, we might be required to change our accounting policies, alter our operational policies, and implement new or enhance existing systems so that they reflect new or amended financial reporting standards, or we may be required to restate our published financial statements. Such changes to existing standards or changes in their interpretation may have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial position, and profit. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock We are a holding company with no operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the shares of common stock of Certara Holdco, Inc. (Certara Holdco) that we hold indirectly through our subsidiaries. Certara Holdco, together with its subsidiaries, owns substantially all of our operating assets. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet 44 Table of Contents our financial obligations. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and may be prohibited or restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us, including restrictions under the covenants of the agreements governing our Credit Agreement. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to meet our financial obligations. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, by us or our existing stockholders in the public market could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. The sale of additional shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. On December 8, 2022, an entity controlled by Arsenal Capital Partners (Arsenal) acquired all of our stock shares held by EQT Avatar Parent LP (EQT). As of December 31, 2023, shares controlled by Arsenal and our officers and directors in aggregate represented approximately 24.9% of our outstanding common stock. Although Arsenal agreed with us not to sell any of the shares acquired by EQT for a two-year period (with certain limited exceptions or without our written consent), the market price of our shares of common stock could drop significantly if Arsenal or our officers and directors sell their shares or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our shares of common stock or other securities. In addition, the shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance under the 2020 Incentive Plan (Plan Share Reserve) or our 2020 Employee Stock Purchase Plan will become eligible for resale in the public market once those shares are issued, subject to provisions relating to various vesting agreements, lock-up agreements and Rule 144, as applicable. As of December 31, 2023, a total of 15,454,916 and 1,700,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for future issuance under the 2020 Incentive Plan and our 2020 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, respectively. Pursuant to the terms of the 2020 Incentive Plan, the Plan Share Reserve automatically increases on the first day of each fiscal year by a number of shares of common stock equal to the lesser of (i) the positive difference, if any, between (A) 4% of our outstanding common stock on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year, and (B) the Plan Share Reserve on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year, and (ii) the number of shares of common stock as may be determined by the Board. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. For example, we issued 2,239,717 shares of common stock in connection with our acquisition of Pinnacle in October 2021. We may issue additional shares in connection with our acquisition of Vyasa based on the results of its future performance. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of our common stock. Any issuance of additional securities in connection with investments or acquisitions may result in additional dilution. Provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and stockholders agreement may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider to be in its best interest, including attempts that might result in a premium over the market price of our common stock. These provisions provide, among other things: for the division of our board of directors into three classes, as nearly equal in size as possible, with directors in each class serving three-year terms and with terms of the directors of only one class expiring in any given year; 45 Table of Contents that directors may only be removed for cause, and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds in voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class; for the ability of our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could have the effect of impeding the success of an attempt to acquire us or otherwise effect a change of control; for advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at stockholder meetings; that special stockholder meetings may be called only by or at the direction of our board of directors or the chairman of our board of directors; and that certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws pertaining to amendments, our board of directors, limitation of director liability, stockholder consents, annual and special stockholder meetings, competition and corporate opportunities and business combinations, may be amended only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds in voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of our stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, which limitation may have the effect of deferring, delaying or discouraging hostile takeovers, or changes in control or management of our Company. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third partys offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Arsenal holds a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock, and its interests may be different than the interests of other holders of our common stock. As of December 31, 2023, Arsenal owns or controls approximately 22.7% of our outstanding common stock, and subject to the terms of the Stockholder Agreement, maintains the right to nominate up to two board members. In addition, Arsenal will have significant influence over the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including any potential change of control of our Company. The concentration of ownership could deprive investors of an opportunity to receive a premium for shares of common stock as part of a sale of our Company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock. Arsenal is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that any director who is not employed by us or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. Arsenal also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, subject to limited exceptions, that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and, to the extent enforceable, the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the sole and exclusive forums for certain stockholder litigation matters, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our current and former directors, officers, employees or stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, subject to limited exceptions, that unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for any (i) derivative action or proceeding 46 Table of Contents brought on behalf of our company, (ii) action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any current or former director, officer, employee or stockholder of our company to the Company or our stockholders, (iii) action asserting a claim against the Company or any current or former director, officer, employee or stockholder of the Company arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws (as either might be amended from time to time) or (iv) action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine of the State of Delaware. Unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States of America shall be the exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the federal securities laws of the United States of America. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to the forum provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Although our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains the exclusive forum provision described above, it is possible that a court could find that such a provision is inapplicable for a particular claim or action or that such provision is unenforceable. These choice of forum provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a different judicial forum, including one that it may find favorable or convenient for disputes with us or any of our directors, officers or other employees which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provisions that will be contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable with respect to one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our board of directors are authorized to issue and designate shares of our preferred stock in additional series without stockholder approval. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, without the approval of our stockholders, to issue 50,000,000 shares of our preferred stock, subject to limitations prescribed by applicable law, rules and regulations and the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as shares of preferred stock in series, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof. The powers, preferences and rights of these additional series of preferred stock may be senior to or on parity with our common stock, which may reduce its value. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. We are committed to safeguarding our customers and the sensitive information shared in the application of software and services provided. Our cybersecurity program, risk management and governance reflect our dedication to not only meeting industry standards but exceeding them. Risk Management and Strategy We recognize that cybersecurity risks pose a significant threat to our business, customers, and stakeholders, and we have implemented a comprehensive security and privacy program to address these risks. We embed security considerations into every aspect of our operations, and our focus encompasses a proactive approach that involves continuous monitoring to swiftly detect and respond to emerging threats to ensure that our customers' information remains secure in the face of evolving cybersecurity challenges. With a foundation grounded in industry best practices, including NIST 800-53, ISO 27001, CIS Top 20, OWASP Top 10, and Security by 47 Table of Contents Design, we prioritize the identification and assessment of risks to create a protective shield around our customers' data. This foundation guides our processes for assessing, identifying, and managing risks related to cybersecurity threats and incidents, as well as ensuring compliance with legal and contractual obligations. Our risk management processes are integrated into our overall business strategy and operations. We use various methods and tools to identify and assess cybersecurity risks across all assets in our technical landscape, such as vulnerability scanning, penetration testing, threat intelligence, risk assessments, and audits from customers. We also use third-party assessors and service providers, consultants, and auditors, to support our risk management processes and to provide independent validation and verification of our security posture. We have established processes to oversee and identify risks associated with our use of third-party assessors and service providers, such as due diligence, contractual obligations, monitoring and vendor evaluation and qualification. We maintain robust cybersecurity incident response procedures, which includes escalating incidents to the appropriate level of management, mitigation, remediation and the assessment of materiality of cybersecurity incidents, or a series of related incidents, that may materially affect or are reasonably likely to materially affect our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. We also disclose information regarding our security and privacy program and practices on our website and in our public-facing notices. Furthermore, we conduct annual cybersecurity awareness training for our employees in order to provide them with the knowledge necessary to navigate the digital landscape securely. We understand that cybersecurity is not a static concept but a dynamic discipline, and our security and privacy program reflects this by incorporating internal and third-party audits, penetration testing, active vulnerability scanning and a continuous improvement mindset. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are not aware of any cybersecurity incidents, or a series of related incidents, that have had or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the Companys business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. For more information on our cybersecurity related risks, see Part 1, Item 1A. Risk Factors entitled Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Information Technology and Data Privacy included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Governance We have established a corporate governance structure that provides oversight and guidance for our security and privacy program. The Board of Directors (the Board) is ultimately responsible for the oversight of the Companys security and privacy program. The Audit Committee, which supports the Board in the oversight of the program, is focused on cybersecurity and data privacy risk, including incident response planning, timely identification and assessment of incidents, incident recovery and business continuity considerations. We have defined roles and responsibilities for the management of cybersecurity risks, including specific executive-level and management-level positions or committees. Our security and privacy program is overseen by our Security and Privacy Program Office (SPPO), which is composed of corporate leadership from legal and IT. The SPPO is accountable to the VP of Information Technology, who is the accountable executive for the program. Our function and business unit executive leadership, acting in support of the SPPO and the Board, is responsible for ensuring organizational compliance with data protection regulations and controls across the organization. Our VP of Information Technology and Director, Compliance Standards & Data Privacy ("DCSDP"), are responsible for the design, implementation, and monitoring of the security and privacy policies, standards, procedures, and controls that govern our information systems and data processing activities. Our VP of Information Technology, has 30 years of experience in IT infrastructure, cybersecurity operations, and site reliability engineering for a wide range of software and service organizations, with the last 15 years focused on SaaS software businesses with access to sensitive customer data. The DCSDP also has 30 years in IT with the last 12 focused on compliance and data privacy issues for Certara. 48 Table of Contents The VP of Information Technology and DCSDP also have a reporting responsibility to the General Counsel, and the Board via the Audit Committee. They coordinate the response and remediation of cybersecurity incidents and data breaches and report on the status and effectiveness of the security and privacy program to the SPPO, the Board, the Audit Committee, and other stakeholders on a quarterly basis, or more frequently as needed. We have established processes to ensure that management is informed about and monitors cybersecurity incident prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation. These processes include regular reporting, escalation, and communication protocols, as well as periodic reviews and audits of the security and privacy program. Item 2. Properties. As of December 31, 2023, we had 36 offices in 16 countries, with our headquarters located in Princeton, New Jersey. We lease or sublease all of our offices. None of our facilities are used for anything other than general office use. We believe that our facilities are suitable and adequate for our operations and we anticipate that additional suitable space will be available when needed. As of December 31, 2023, our material operating locations, which we define as the facilities we lease with more than 10,000 square feet, were as follows: LOCATION APPROXIMATE SQUARE FOOTAGE LEASE EXPIRATION DATES Wilmington, Delaware, USA 18,250 2/28/2027 Princeton, New Jersey, USA 17,560 6/30/2025 Sheffield, UK 13,910 1/28/2028 Raleigh, North Carolina, USA 11,250 1/31/2028 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. From time to time, we may become involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. Management believes that there is no pending or threatened litigation to which the Company and any of its subsidiaries, or any of the Company or its subsidiaries properties is the subject of or party to, which, individually or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 49 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. MarketInformation Our common stock has been listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market (the Nasdaq) under the symbol CERT since December 11, 2020. Prior to that date, there was no public trading market for our common stock. As of February 15, 2024, there were 34 holders of record of our common stock as reported by our transfer agent. Holders of record are defined as those stockholders whose shares are registered in their names in our stock records and do not include beneficial owners of common stock whose shares are held in the names of brokers, dealers, and clearing agencies. DividendPolicy We currently do not expect to declare any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we anticipate that all of our earnings in the foreseeable future will be used to provide working capital, to support our operations, to finance the growth and development of our business and to reduce our net debt. Any determination to declare dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board, subject to applicable laws, and will be dependent on a number of factors, including our earnings, capital requirements and overall financial condition. In addition, because we are a holding company, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain sufficient funds through dividends from subsidiaries, including restrictions under our Credit Agreement, and may be further restricted by the terms of any future debt or preferred securities. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The following graph compares (i) the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock from December 11, 2020 (the date our common stock commenced trading on the Nasdaq) through December 31, 2023 with (ii) the cumulative total return of the NASDAQ Index and the S&P Small Cap 600 HealthCare Index over the same period, assuming the investment of $100 in our common stock and in each index on December 11, 2020 and the reinvestment of dividends. The graph uses the closing market price on December 11, 2020 of $38.08 per share as the initial value of our common stock. As discussed above, we have never declared or paid a cash dividend on our common stock and do not anticipate declaring or paying a cash dividend in the foreseeable future. 50 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table summarizes our purchases of common stock in the three months ended December 31, 2023: Total Number of Shares Purchased(a) Weighted Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased Under Announced Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet be Purchased Under Announced Programs 10/1/2023 to 10/31/2023 3,986 $ 14.54 0 $ 0 11/1/2023 to 11/30/2023 428 $ 12.19 0 $ 0 12/1/2023 to 12/31/2023 1,048 $ 14.41 0 $ 0 Total 5,462 $ 14.33 0 __________________________________ (a)Shares purchased were due to shares delivered by employees to us for the payment of taxes resulting from issuance of common stock upon the vesting of restricted stock or restricted stock units (RSUs) relating to stock-based compensation plans. Item 6. [Reserved] 51 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For purposes of this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section, we use the terms "Certara Inc.", "Company", we, us, and our to refer to Certara, Inc. You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report and our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. As discussed in the section titled Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements, the following discussion and analysis, in addition to historical financial information, contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A above. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist the reader in understanding our consolidated financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. Executive Overview We are a leading provider of biosimulation technology and solutions for using MIDD in the global biopharmaceutical industry. Biosimulation and MIDD can increase the probability of success in bringing a new drug to market and decrease the costs of drug development. In addition, MIDD strategies are increasingly utilized to help predict commercial success, a critical part of the drug development process as new products must be both approved by regulators and adopted by the market. Our goal is to enable the life science industry to use data, modeling, and analytics to make better decisions during drug development and commercialization to increase productivity rates and vastly reduce development costs. Drug development is necessarily a highly regulated process involving the collection of vast amounts of laboratory, clinical and evidence data, and there are many failures at every step along the way which add to total cost. The pharmaceutical industry spends more than $260 billion annually on R&D. Generally, companies spend an average of $6.2 billion per FDA-approved drug. Our software and scientists incorporate modern advances in scientific understanding, drug development experience, data analysis, and AI resulting in significant opportunities to decrease the cost and increase the odds of new drug approval and commercial success. Our proprietary biosimulation platforms are built on biology, chemistry, and pharmacology principles with proprietary mathematical algorithms that model how medicines and diseases behave in the body. For over two decades, our scientists have developed and validated our biosimulation technology using data from scientific literature, laboratory research, preclinical and clinical studies. To do this, we have developed solutions for the collection, standardization, validation, storage, and analysis of the preclinical and clinical data needed for MIDD. These data solutions are used internally and by global life sciences companies. The scientific principles underlying our work with customers in biosimulation and MIDD must be transparent and fully explainable during the regulatory process, so we have become experts at incorporating data and results into regulatory documents. Our software and regulatory services streamline the creation of regulatory filings and speed regulatory data flow to maximize the chances of successful commercialization. 52 Table of Contents AI and machine learning technologies are being incorporated across our software and services portfolios providing opportunities to expand the number of data sources utilized, better predict outcomes, and streamline reporting. For example, we are using machine learning to automate and speed the process of biosimulation, and we have created an AI application to aid creating regulatory documents from scientific analyses and clinical data. We believe that AI predictive models will continue to enhance the accuracy and usefulness of biosimulation models and be utilized broadly across drug development. We deliver software and technology-enabled services. Our strategy is to create and apply validated software applications that can be used broadly in the life science industry. We offer services, leveraging our technology, delivered by scientists with extensive drug development experience to aid our clients in applying biosimulation and MIDD to their specific projects. Since 2014, customers who leverage our solutions have received more than 90% of all new drug approvals by FDA. We have worked with nearly 2,400 life sciences companies and academic institutions and have collaborated on more than 8,000 customer projects in the last decade across a wide variety of therapeutic areas ranging from cancer and hematology to diabetes and hundreds of rare diseases. Our software products are licensed by more than 57,000 users and are also used by 23 global drug regulatory agencies, including the U.S. FDA, Japanese PMDA, and Chinese cFDA. With continued innovation in and adoption of our biosimulation software, technology, and services, we believe more life science companies worldwide will leverage more of our end-to-end platform to reduce cost, accelerate speed to market, and ensure safety and efficacy of medicines for all patients. Public Offerings and Other Key Shareholders Transactions On March 29, 2021, we completed an underwritten secondary public offering in which certain selling stockholders, including EQT, sold 11,500,000 shares of our common stock, which included 1,500,000 shares of common stock pursuant to the full exercise of the underwriters option to purchase additional shares. We did not offer any common stock in that transaction and did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock by the selling stockholders. We incurred cost of $1.1 million in relation to the secondary public offering. On September 13, 2021, we completed another public offering, at a public offering price of $31.00 per share, pursuant to which we sold 4,500,000 shares of our common stock, and certain selling stockholders sold 18,500,000 shares of our common stock, which included 3,000,000 shares of common stock pursuant to the full exercise of the underwriters option to purchase additional shares. We received net proceeds of $134.1 million, after deducting underwriters' discounts and commissions. In addition, $0.7 million of legal, accounting and other offering costs incurred in connection with the sale of our common stock in the public offering, were capitalized and offset against the proceeds received. On November 22, 2021, we completed another secondary public offering in which certain selling stockholders, including EQT, sold 10,000,000 shares of our common stock. We did not offer any common stock in this transaction and did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock by the selling stockholders. We incurred costs of $0.6 million, recorded in general and administrative expenses, in relation to the secondary public offering. On August 11, 2022, the Company completed another secondary public offering in which certain selling stockholders, including EQT, sold 7,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock. The Company did not offer any common stock in this transaction and did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock by the selling stockholders. The Company incurred costs of $0.6 million, recorded in general and administrative expenses, in relation to the secondary public offering. 53 Table of Contents On December 8, 2022, Arsenal acquired an aggregate of 29,954,521 shares of our common stock from EQT at a price of $15.00 per share. In connection with this transaction, we entered into a letter agreement, effective December 8, 2022, with Arsenal providing that, subject to certain exceptions, Arsenal is prohibited from transferring the acquired shares until December 8, 2024. Also, in connection with the transaction, we entered into a stockholders agreement with Arsenal, effective December 8, 2022, which, among other things, grants certain conditional rights to Arsenal to nominate up to two directors to our Board. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that the growth of and future success of our business depends on many factors. While each of these factors presents significant opportunities for our business, they also pose important challenges that we must successfully address to sustain our growth and improve results of operations. Customer Retention and Expansion Our future operating results depend, in part, on our ability to successfully enter new markets, increase our customer base, and retain and expand our relationships with existing customers. We monitor two key performance indicators to evaluate retention and expansion: new bookings and renewal rates. Bookings: Our new bookings represent the estimated contract value of a signed contract or purchase order where there is sufficient or reasonable certainty about the customers ability and intent to fund and commence the software and/or services. Bookings vary from period to period depending on numerous factors, including the overall health of the biopharmaceutical industry, regulatory developments, industry consolidation, and sales performance. Bookings have varied and will continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. See Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our bookings might not accurately predict our future revenue, and we might not realize all or any part of the anticipated revenue reflected in our backlog. Renewal Rates: Our renewal rates measure the percentage of software customers who renew their licenses or subscriptions at the end of the license or subscription periods. The renewal rate is based on revenues and excludes the effect of price increases or expansions. The table below summarizes our quarterly bookings and renewal rate trends: 2021 2022 2023 (In Millions) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FULL YEAR Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FULL YEAR Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FULL YEAR Bookings $ 81.9 $ 75.1 $ 72.3 $ 112.4 $ 341.7 $ 108.5 $ 100.3 $ 79.8 $ 120.4 $ 409.0 $ 112.7 $ 85.9 $ 84.8 $ 118.9 $ 402.3 Renewal Rate 92 % 90 % 87 % 96 % 92 % 92 % 92 % 93 % 88 % 91 % 90 % 93 % 86 % 85 % 88 % Investments in Growth We have invested and intend to continue to invest in expanding the breadth and depth of our solutions, including through acquisitions and international expansion. We expect to continue to invest (i) in scientific talent to expand our ability to deliver solutions across the drug development spectrum; (ii) in sales and marketing to promote our solutions to new and existing customers and in existing and expanded geographies; (iii) in research and development to support existing solutions and innovate new technology; (iv) in other operational and administrative functions to support our expected growth; and (v) in complementary business. 54 Table of Contents We expect that our headcount will increase over time and also expect our total operating expenses will continue to increase over time. Our Operating Environment The acceptance of model-informed biopharmaceutical discovery and development by regulatory authorities affects the demand for our products and services. Support for the use of biosimulation in discovery and development from regulatory bodies, such as the FDA and EMA, has been critical to its rapid adoption by the biopharmaceutical industry. There has been a steady increase in the recognition by regulatory and academic institutions of the role that modeling and simulation can play in the biopharmaceutical development and approval process, as demonstrated by new regulations and guidance documents describing and encouraging the use of modeling and simulation in the biopharmaceutical discovery, development, testing, and approval process, which has directly led to an increase in the demand for our services. Changes in government or regulatory policy, or a reversal in the trend toward increasing the acceptance of and reliance upon in silico data in the drug approval process, could decrease the demand for our products and services or lead regulatory authorities to cease use of, or recommend against the use of, our products and services. Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the United States where the majority of our customers are based, strictly regulate the biopharmaceutical development process. Our business involves helping biopharmaceutical companies strategically and tactically navigate the regulatory approval process. New or amended regulations are expected to result in higher regulatory standards and often additional revenues for companies that service these industries. However, some changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of streamlined or expedited approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our regulatory strategy services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our regulatory services. Competition The market for our biosimulation products and related services for the biopharmaceutical industry is competitive and highly fragmented. In our view, the principal competitive factors in our market are the functionality and quality of models, the breadth of molecular types, therapeutic areas, and modalities supported, regulator acceptance of our solutions, ease of use and functionality of applications, depth of experience in drug development, brand awareness and reputation, total cost, and the ability to securely integrate with other enterprise applications and the overall drug development process in the customer. For additional information, see Business Competition. Impact of COVID-19 The continued spread of COVID-19 may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2023, we believe there have been and will be short-term impacts on our business due to new variants of COVID-19. The presence of these new variants has caused a slowdown in closing out clinical trials and delays in regulatory services projects. We believe that these are transitory impacts that we are well-equipped to manage going forward. non-GAAP measures Management uses various financial metrics, including total revenues, income from operations, net income, and certain metrics that are not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP, such as adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, to measure and assess the performance of our business, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies, to make budgeting decisions, to make certain compensation decisions, and to compare our performance against that of other peer companies using similar measures. We believe that presentation of the GAAP and the non-GAAP metrics in this filing will aid investors in understanding our business. 55 Table of Contents Management measures operating performance based on adjusted EBITDA defined for a particular period as net income (loss) excluding interest expense, provision (benefit) for income taxes, depreciation and amortization expense, intangible asset amortization, equity-based compensation expense, goodwill impairment expense, acquisition and integration expense, and other items not indicative of our ongoing operating performance. Management also measures operating performance based on adjusted net income defined for a particular period as net income (loss) excluding, equity-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, acquisition and integration expense, and other items not indicative of our ongoing operating performance. Further, management measures operating performance based on adjusted diluted earnings per share defined for a particular period as adjusted net income divided by the weighted-average diluted common shares outstanding. We believe adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share are helpful to investors, analysts, and other interested parties because they can assist in providing a more consistent and comparable overview of our operations across our historical periods. In addition, these measures are frequently used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties to evaluate and assess performance. Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share are non-GAAP measures and are presented for supplemental purposes only and should not be considered as an alternative or substitute to financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share have certain limitations in that they do not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) that are necessary to run our business. Other companies, including other companies in our industry, may not use these measures and may calculate both differently than as presented, limiting the usefulness as a comparative measure. 56 Table of Contents The following table reconciles net income (loss) to adjusted EBITDA : YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net income (loss)(a) $ (55,357) $ 14,731 $ (13,266) Interest expense(a) 22,916 17,773 16,837 Interest income(a) (9,317) (1,294) (271) Provision for income taxes(a) 214 4,024 9,891 Depreciation and amortization expense(a) 1,552 1,731 2,135 Intangible asset amortization(a) 54,519 50,739 42,980 Currency (gain) loss(a) 638 (3,166) (175) Equity-based compensation expense(b) 28,300 30,345 29,483 Change in fair value of contingent consideration(d) 24,118 Goodwill impairment expense(e) 46,984 Acquisition-related expenses(f) 6,064 2,233 11,241 Integration expense(g) 121 31 Transaction-related expenses(h) 1,136 2,754 Severance expenses(i) 653 60 Reorganization expense(j) 1,660 Loss on disposal of fixed assets(k) 65 169 351 Executive recruiting expense(l) 631 139 733 First-year Sarbanes-Oxley implementation costs(m) 961 929 Adjusted EBITDA $ 123,108 $ 120,174 $ 103,713 57 Table of Contents The following table reconciles net income (loss) to adjusted net income: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net income (loss) (a) $ (55,357) $ 14,731 $ (13,266) Currency (gain) loss(a) 638 (3,166) (175) Equity-based compensation expense(b) 28,300 30,345 29,483 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets(c) 45,838 43,822 36,413 Change in fair value of contingent consideration(d) 24,118 Goodwill impairment expense(e) 46,984 Acquisition-related expenses(f) 6,064 2,233 11,241 Integration expense(g) 121 31 Transaction-related expenses(h) 1,136 2,754 Severance expenses(i) 653 60 Reorganization expense(j) 1,660 Loss on disposal of fixed assets(k) 65 169 351 Executive recruiting expense(l) 631 139 733 First-year Sarbanes-Oxley implementation costs(m) 961 929 Income tax expense impact of adjustments(n) (30,041) (17,633) (15,344) Adjusted net income $ 69,021 $ 73,390 $ 53,210 58 Table of Contents The following table reconciles diluted earnings per share to adjusted diluted earnings per share: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023 2022 2021 Diluted earnings per share(a) $ (0.35) $ 0.09 $ (0.09) Currency (gain) loss(a) (0.02) Equity-based compensation expense(b) 0.18 0.19 0.19 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets(c) 0.29 0.28 0.24 Change in fair value of contingent consideration(d) 0.15 Goodwill impairment expense(e) 0.30 Acquisition-related expenses(f) 0.04 0.01 0.07 Integration expense(g) Transaction-related expenses(h) 0.01 0.02 Severance expenses(i) Reorganization expense(j) 0.01 Loss on disposal of fixed assets(k) Executive recruiting expense(l) First-year Sarbanes-Oxley implementation costs(m) 0.01 0.01 Income tax expense impact of adjustments(n) (0.19) (0.11) (0.10) Adjusted diluted earnings per share $ 0.43 $ 0.46 $ 0.34 Basic weighted average common shares outstanding 158,936,251 156,876,942 149,842,668 Effect of potentially dilutive shares outstanding (o) 943,886 2,477,452 4,401,021 Adjusted diluted weighted average common shares outstanding 159,880,137 $ 159,354,394 154,243,689 __________________________________ (a)Represents amounts as determined under GAAP. (b)Represents expense related to equity-based compensation. Equity-based compensation has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy. (c)Represents amortization costs associated with acquired intangible assets in connection with business acquisitions. (d)Represents expense associated with remeasuring fair value of contingent consideration of business acquisition. (e)Represents expense associated with goodwill impairment charge. (f)Represents costs associated with mergers and acquisitions and any retention bonuses pursuant to the acquisitions. (g)Represents integration costs related to post - acquisition integration activities. (h)Represents costs associated with our public offerings that are not capitalized. (i)Represents charges for severance provided to former executives. (j)Represents expense related to reorganization, including legal entity reorganization and lease abandonment cost associated with the evaluation of our office space footprint. (k)Represents the gain/loss related to disposal of fixed assets. (l)Represents recruiting and relocation expenses related to hiring senior executives. (m)Represents the first-year Sarbanes-Oxley costs for accounting and consulting fees related to the Company's preparation to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as implementation cost of adopting ASC 842. (n)Represents the income tax effect of the non-GAAP adjustments calculated using the applicable statutory rate by jurisdiction. 59 Table of Contents (o)Represents dilutive shares or potentially dilutive shares that were excluded from the Company's GAAP diluted weighted average common shares outstanding because the Company had a reported net loss and therefore including these shares would have been anti-dilutive. Components of Results of Operations Revenues Our business generates revenue from the sales of software products and delivery of consulting services. Software. Our software business generates revenues from software licenses, software subscriptions and software maintenance as follows: Software licenses: We recognize revenue for software license fees upfront, upon delivery of the software license. Software subscription: Subscription revenue consists of subscription fees to provide our customers access to and related support for our cloud-based solutions. We recognize subscription fees ratably over the term of the subscription, usually one to three years. Any subscription revenue paid upfront that is not recognized in the current period is included in deferred revenue in our consolidated balance sheet until earned. Software maintenance: Software maintenance revenue includes fees for providing updates and technical support for software offerings. Software maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term, usually one year. Services. Our services business generates revenues primarily from technology-driven services and professional services, which include software implementation services. Our service arrangements are time and materials, fixed fee, or prepaid. Revenues are recognized over the time services are performed for time and materials, and over time by estimating progress to completion for fixed fee and prepaid services. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of employee related expenses, equity-based compensation, the costs of third-party subcontractors, travel costs, distributor fees, amortization of capitalized software and allocated overhead. We may add or expand computing infrastructure service providers, make additional investments in the availability and security of our solutions, or add resources to support our growth. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of employee-related expenses, equity-based compensation, sales commissions, brand development, advertising, travel-related expenses and industry conferences and events. We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to increase penetration of our existing client base and expand to new clients. Research and Development. Research and development expense consist primarily of employee-related expenses, equity-based compensation, third-party consulting, allocated software costs and tax credits. We plan to continue to invest in our R&D efforts to enhance and scale our software product offerings by development of new features and increased functionality. 60 Table of Contents General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists of personnel-related expenses associated with our executive, legal, finance, human resources, information technology, and other administrative functions, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and equity-based compensation. General and administrative expense also includes professional fees for external legal, accounting and other consulting services, allocated overhead costs, and other general operating expenses. Intangible Asset Amortization. Intangible asset amortization consists primarily of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions and amortization of capitalized software development costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expense. Depreciation and amortization expense consists of depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of leasehold improvements. Other Expenses Interest Expense. Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense associated with the Credit Agreement, including amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts. Net Other Income (Expense). Net other income (expense) consists of miscellaneous non-operating expenses primarily comprised of foreign exchange transaction gains and losses. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes. Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists of U.S. federal and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We expect income tax expense to increase over time as the Company continues to grow more profitable. Acquisitions Author! B.V. On March 2, 2021, we completed a transaction that qualified as a business combination for a total consideration of $2.7 million. The business combination was not significant to our consolidated financial statements. Based on our purchase price allocation, approximately $1.2 million, $0.1 million and $1.2 million of the purchase price was assigned to customer relationships, non-compete agreements and goodwill, respectively. Insight Medical Writing Limited On June 7, 2021, we completed a transaction that qualified as a business combination for a total consideration of $15.2 million. The business combination was not significant to our consolidated financial statements. Based on our purchase price allocation, approximately $7.4 million and $4.7 million of the purchase price was assigned to customer relationships and goodwill, respectively. Pinnacle 21, LLC (Pinnacle) On October 1, 2021, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the equity of Pinnacle for a total consideration of $339.1 million, consisting of cash of $266.3 million ($246.9 million net with cash acquired from the acquisition) and 2,239,717 shares of our restricted common stock. Based on our purchase price allocation, approximately $15.8 million, $103.0 million, $24.6 million and $180.9 million of the purchase price was assigned to trademark, acquired software, customer relationships, and goodwill, respectively. 61 Table of Contents Integrated Nonclinical Development Solutions, Inc. On January 3, 2022, we completed an acquisition for a total consideration of $8.0 million. The business combination was not significant to our consolidated financial statements. Based on the purchase price allocation, approximately $2.4 million, $1.0 million, $0.1 million, and $2.9 million of the purchase price was assigned to customer relationships, developed technology, non-compete agreements, and goodwill, respectively. Vyasa Analytics, LLC (Vyasa) On December 28, 2022, we completed the acquisition of Vyasa, a company that provides an AI powered, scalable deep learning software and analytics platform for organizations within healthcare and life sciences, higher education and state and local governments for total consideration of $29.3 million. The business combination was not significant to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Based on the Companys purchase price allocation, approximately $11.4 million, $1.5 million, $0.1 million, $0.1 million and $16.6 million of the purchase price was assigned to developed technology, customer relationships, trademarks, non-compete agreements and goodwill, respectively. The total estimated consideration includes a portion of contingent consideration that is payable over the next three years in a combination of 70% cash and 30% in shares of our common stock. Future payments of contingent consideration are based on achieving certain eligible revenue thresholds for each of the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2023, 2024, and 2025, respectively. In December 2023, we modified the acquisition agreement and revised thresholds for eligible revenues. The potential payments range from $0 to $60 million over the three years period. The fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated to be $19.8 million as of the acquisition date. At December 31, 2023, the contingent consideration was remeasured to $45.2 million, resulting in a fair value adjustment of $25.4 million for the year ended at December 31, 2023 and recorded in general and administrative (G&A) on the accompanying consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Drug Interaction Solutions, University of Washington ("DIDB") On June 20, 2023, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with the University of Washington and completed the acquisition of DIDB, including the Drug Interaction Database and related products, from The University of Washington for a total estimated consideration of $8.3 million. The business combination was not significant to the Companys consolidated financial statements. Based on our purchase price allocation, approximately $0.3 million, $5.6 million, $0.4 million, and $2.3 million of the purchase price was assigned to trademarks, database content/technology, customer relationships and goodwill, respectively. The total estimated consideration included a portion of contingent consideration that is payable over the next two years in cash, not to exceed $2.0 million. The fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated to be $0.8 million as of the acquisition date. At December 31, 2023, the contingent consideration was remeasured to $0.1 million, resulting in a negative fair value adjustment of $0.7 million and recorded in G&A on the accompanying consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Formedix Limited ("Formedix") On October 10, 2023, we completed the acquisition of Formedix for a total estimated consideration of $41.4 million. The business combination was not material to our consolidated financial statements. The total estimated consideration included a portion of contingent consideration that is payable over two years in cash, not to exceed $9.0 million. The fair value of the contingent consideration related to revenue threshold was estimated to be $4.4 million as of the acquisition date. Future payments of contingent consideration are 62 Table of Contents based on achieving certain eligible revenue targets for each of the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2023 and 2024, respectively. Additional, another portion of the contingent consideration is based on the resolution of certain tax contingencies. In total, the fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated to be $5.2 million as of the acquisition date. At December 31 2023, the contingent consideration related to revenues was remeasured to $3.7 million, resulting in a negative fair value adjustment of $0.7 million and recorded in G&A on the accompanying consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Based on our purchase price allocation, approximately $11.7 million, $3.1 million, and $25.1 million of the purchase price were assigned to developed technology, customer relationships and goodwill, respectively. Applied BioMath, LLC ("ABM") On December 12, 2023, we completed the acquisition of ABM, an industry-leader in providing model-informed drug discovery and development support to help accelerate and de-risk therapeutic research and development, for total estimated consideration of $36.6 million. The business combination was not material to our consolidated financial statements. Based on our preliminary purchase price allocation, approximately $4.6 million, $0.8 million, $13.7 million and $15.9 million of the purchase price was assigned to developed technology, non-compete agreements, customer relationships and goodwill, respectively. The total estimated consideration includes a portion of contingent consideration that is payable over two years in cash, not to exceed $17.6 million. Future payments of contingent consideration are based on achieving certain eligible revenue targets for each of the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2023 and 2024, respectively. The fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated to be $5.4 million as of the acquisition date. At December 31, 2023, the contingent consideration was remeasured to $5.4 million, resulting in fair value adjustment of $23 thousand and recorded in G&A on the accompanying consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). The contingent considerations for all acquisitions were classified as a liability and included in accrued expense and other long term liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. The contingent consideration related with revenue threshold are remeasured on a recurring basis at fair value for each reporting period. Any changes in the fair value of these contingent liabilities are included in the earnings in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). The current purchase price allocations for acquisitions of Formedix and ABM are preliminary. The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocations that are not yet finalized that relate to the fair value of certain tangible assets and liabilities assumed and residual goodwill. We continue to gather information supporting the acquired assets and liabilities, including but not limited to the estimation of the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets, measurement of deferred revenue and corresponding impact on goodwill, during the measurement period. Any adjustments to the preliminary purchase price allocation identified during the measurement period, which will not exceed one year from the acquisition date, will be accounted for prospectively. For more information about our acquisitions, see Note 5. Business Combinations in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 63 Table of Contents Results of Operations YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Statement of operations data: Revenues $ 354,337 $ 335,644 $ 286,104 Cost of revenues 141,022 132,577 111,616 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 32,022 27,408 20,141 Research and development 34,173 28,205 20,379 General and administrative 95,385 71,773 79,539 Intangible asset amortization 43,973 41,429 38,715 Depreciation and amortization expense 1,552 1,731 2,135 Goodwill impairment expense 46,984 Total operating expenses 254,089 170,546 160,909 Income (loss) from operations (40,774) 32,521 13,579 Other expenses: Interest expense (22,916) (17,773) (16,837) Net other income (expense) 8,547 4,007 (117) Total other expenses (14,369) (13,766) (16,954) Income (loss) before income taxes (55,143) 18,755 (3,375) Provision for income taxes 214 4,024 9,891 Net income (loss) $ (55,357) $ 14,731 $ (13,266) Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenues YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Software $ 131,677 $ 115,466 $ 16,211 14 % Services 222,660 220,178 2,482 1 % Total revenues $ 354,337 $ 335,644 $ 18,693 6 % Revenue increased by $18.7 million, or 6%, to $354.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The overall increase in revenues was primarily due to growth in our software product offerings and technology-driven service from continued demand from existing customers, new product introductions, and client expansions. Software revenue increased by $16.2 million, or 14%, to $131.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase is primarily due to growth in our biosimulation technology-driven software portfolio from continued demand from existing customers,and new product introductions. 64 Table of Contents Services revenue increased by $2.5 million, or 1%, to $222.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The growth in overall services revenue is primarily attributable to continued growth in biosimulation, partially offset by decrease in regulatory services. Cost of Revenues YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 141,022 $ 132,577 $ 8,445 6 % Cost of revenues increased by $8.4 million, or 6%, to $141.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase was primarily due to a $4.4 million increase in employee-related costs resulting primarily from billable head count growth, a $4.1 million increase in equity-based compensation cost, a $1.2 million increase in intangible assets amortization, a $0.5 million increase in travel expenses, partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in consulting and professional services cost, a $0.4 million increase in capitalized software cost, a $0.4 million decrease in miscellaneous expense, and a $0.2 million decrease in cost of licenses. Sales and Marketing Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 32,022 $ 27,408 $ 4,614 17 % % of total revenues 9 % 8 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $4.6 million, or 17%, to $32.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. Sales and marketing expenses increased primarily due to a $3.8 million increase in employee-related costs resulting primarily from head count growth, a $0.7 million increase in travel related expenses, a $0.4 million increase in marketing costs, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in equity-based compensation cost. Research and Development Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Research and development $ 34,173 $ 28,205 $ 5,968 21 % % of total revenues 10 % 8 % R&D expenses increased by $6.0 million, or 21%, to $34.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase in R&D expenses was primarily due to a $7.2 million increase in employee-related costs resulting primarily from head count growth, a $0.5 million increase in travel related expenses, a $0.5 million increase in equity-based compensation cost, and $0.3 million increase in cost of licenses, partially offset by a $2.1 million increase in capitalized cost in R&D, and a $0.4 million decrease in consulting and professional services cost. 65 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) General and administrative $ 95,385 $ 71,773 $ 23,612 33 % % of total revenues 27 % 21 % General and administrative expenses increased by $23.6 million, or 33%, to $95.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a $24.1 million increase related to a change in the fair value of contingent considerations, a $2.4 million increase in business acquisition-related costs, a $2.3 million increase in equipment and software related expenses, a $1.6 million increase in lease abandonment expense, a $1.3 million increase in employee-related costs resulting primarily from head count growth, a $1.2 million increase in professional and consulting costs, and a $0.5 million increase in executive recruiting expense, partially offset by a $6.3 million decrease in equity-based compensation cost, a $1.1 million decrease in insurance costs, a $1.1 million decrease in transaction costs related to public offerings, a $1.0 million decrease related to first-year Sarbanes-Oxley implementation costs, and a $0.5 million decrease in facility lease related expenses. Intangible Asset Amortization Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Intangible asset amortization $ 43,973 $ 41,429 $ 2,544 6 % % of total revenues 12 % 12 % Intangible asset amortization expense increased by $2.5 million, or 6%, to $44.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase in intangible asset amortization was primarily due to a $1.8 million increase in amortization expense from capitalized software and an $0.8 million increase in amortization expense from acquired intangible assets. Depreciation and Amortization Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Depreciation and amortization $ 1,552 $ 1,731 $ (179) (10) % % of total revenues % 1 % Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $0.2 million or (10)%, to $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The decrease was primarily due to decrease in depreciation from finance lease and furniture, partially offset by increase in depreciation expense from computer equipment. 66 Table of Contents Goodwill Impairment Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Goodwill impairment expense $ 46,984 $ $ 46,984 nm Goodwill impairment expense was $47.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to no goodwill impairment expense for the same period in 2022. The increase in goodwill impairment expense was primarily due to recognizing a goodwill impairment for legacy regulatory and writing reporting unit as the carrying value exceeded its fair value. Interest Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Interest expense $ 22,916 $ 17,773 $ 5,143 29 % % of total revenues 6 % 5 % Interest expense increased by $5.1 million, or 29%, to $22.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase was primarily due to a $10.4 million increase in interest expense on our term loan floating rate debt due to increase in market interest rates, partially offset by a $5.3 million gain from interest swap hedge activities. Net Other Income (Expense) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Net other income (expense) $ 8,547 $ 4,007 $ 4,540 113 % % of total revenues 2 % 1 % Net other income (expense) increased by $4.5 million to $8.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase in net other income (expense) was primarily due to an $8.0 million increase in interest income, and a $0.2 million decrease in other expenses, partially offset by $3.8 million remeasurement losses related to the fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates. Provision for Income Taxes YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 214 $ 4,024 $ (3,810) (95) % Effective tax rate (0.4) % 21.5 % Our income tax expense was $0.2 million, resulting in an effective income tax rate of (0.4)%, for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to an income tax expense of $4.0 million, or an effective income tax rate of 21.5%, in 2022. Our income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily due to the impact 67 Table of Contents of non-deductible items, the impact of valuation allowances recorded against certain tax attributes, and the relative mix of domestic and international earnings. Net Income (Loss) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Net income (loss) $ (55,357) $ 14,731 $ (70,088) (476) % Net loss was $55.4 million, representing a $70.1 million decrease in net income for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a $47.0 million goodwill impairment charge, a $24.1 million increase in expense related to change in the fair value of contingent considerations, a $12.4 million increase in expense from other components of operating expense, a $8.4 million increase in cost of revenues, a $5.1 million increase in interest expense, and a $3.8 million increase in remeasurement losses related to the fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by a $18.7 million increase in total revenue, a $8.0 million increase in interest income, and a $3.8 million decrease in tax expense. Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenues YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands) Software $ 115,466 $ 86,825 $ 28,641 33 % Services 220,178 199,279 20,899 10 % Total revenues $ 335,644 $ 286,104 $ 49,540 17 % Revenue increased by $49.5 million, or 17%, to $335.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021. The overall increase in revenue was primarily due to business acquisitions, growth in our technology-driven services and software product offerings from strong renewal rates, client expansion, and new customers. The increase was partially offset by the negative impact on our revenues from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and a decline in regulatory and access revenue. Software revenue increased by $28.6 million, or 33%, to $115.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021. The overall growth is primarily attributable to maintaining high net revenue retention rates and renewal rates for our core software products, growth from acquisitions, and new customers. The increase was partially offset by the negative impact on our revenue from fluctuation of the foreign currency exchange rates. Services revenue increased by $20.9 million, or 10%, to $220.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021. The growth in overall services revenue is primarily attributable to continued growth in biosimulation. The increase was partially offset by the negative impact on our revenue from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and a decline in regulatory and access revenue. 68 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 132,577 $ 111,616 $ 20,961 19 % Cost of revenues increased by $21.0 million, or 19%, to $132.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 2021. The increase was primarily due to a $12.8 million increase in employee-related costs resulting from billable head count growth, a $5.0 million increase in intangible assets amortization, a $2.3 million increase in equity-based compensation cost, a $1.5 million increase related to cost of licenses, a $1.2 million increase in travel, equipment, and facility related expenses, partially offset by a $2.6 million decrease in consulting and professional services cost. Sales and Marketing Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 27,408 $ 20,141 $ 7,267 36 % % of total revenues 8 % 7 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $7.3 million, or 36%, to $27.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 2021. Sales and marketing expenses increased primarily due to a $5.2 million increase in employee-related costs resulting from head count growth, a $0.9 million increase in marketing costs, a $0.5 million increase in travel related expenses, and a $0.3 million increase in professional and consulting costs. Research and Development Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands) Research and development $ 28,205 $ 20,379 $ 7,826 38 % % of total revenues 8 % 7 % Research and development expenses increased by $7.8 million, or 38%, to $28.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 2021. The increase in R&D expenses was primarily due to a $8.1 million increase in employee-related costs resulting from head count growth and a $3.0 million increase in equity-based compensation cost, partially offset by a $3.3 million increase in capitalized cost in R&D. General and Administrative Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands) General and administrative $ 71,773 $ 79,539 $ (7,766) (10) % % of total revenues 21 % 28 % General and administrative expenses decreased by $7.8 million, or 10 %, to $71.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 2021. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily 69 Table of Contents due to a $9.7 million decrease in acquisition-related costs, a $4.3 million decrease in equity-based compensation cost, a $1.6 million decrease in transaction costs related to public offerings, and a $1.0 million decrease in facility and lease related expenses, partially offset by a $5.1 million increase in employee-related costs resulting from head count growth, a $2.4 million increase in professional and consulting costs, and a $1.0 million increase in travel and equipment related expenses. Intangible Asset Amortization Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands) Intangible asset amortization $ 41,429 $ 38,715 $ 2,714 7 % % of total revenues 12 % 14 % Intangible asset amortization expense increased by $2.7 million, or 7%, to $41.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 2021. The increase in intangible asset amortization was primarily the result of increased amortization in acquired intangible assets. Depreciation and Amortization Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands) Depreciation and amortization $ 1,731 $ 2,135 $ (404) (19) % % of total revenues 1 % 1 % Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $0.4 million, or 19 %, to $1.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 2021. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in depreciation from computer equipment and furniture for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the same period in 2021. Interest Expense YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands) Interest expense $ 17,773 $ 16,837 $ 936 6 % % of total revenues 5 % 6 % Interest expense increased by $0.9 million, or 6%, to $17.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 2021. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to market interest rates increase reflected on our term loan floating rate debt. The increase in interest expense was partially offset by $3.3 million of interest expense reclassified from other comprehensive income due to hedge ineffectiveness in 2021 and the decrease of interest on interest swap. 70 Table of Contents Net other income (expense) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands) Net other income (expense) $ 4,007 $ (117) $ 4,124 nm % of total revenues 1 % (0)% Net other income (expense) increased by $4.1 million to $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 2021. The increase in net other income (expense) was primarily due to a $3.0 million increase in remeasurement gains related to the fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates and a $1.0 million increase in interest income. Provision for Income Taxes YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 4,024 $ 9,891 $ (5,867) (59) % Effective tax rate 21.5 % (293.1) % Our income tax expense was $4.0 million, resulting in an effective income tax rate of 21.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to an income tax expense of $9.9 million, or an effective income tax rate of (293.1)% in 2021. Our income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily due to the impact of rate changes in certain jurisdictions, the impact of non-deductible items, and the relative mix of domestic and international earnings. Net Income (Loss) YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, CHANGE 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands) Net income (loss) $ 14,731 $ (13,266) $ 27,997 (211) % Net income increased by $28.0 million, or 211%, to $14.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to a $49.5 million increase in revenues, a $5.9 million decrease in tax expense, and a $4.1 million increase in net other income mainly related to increase in remeasurement gain and interest income, partially offset by a $21.0 million increase in cost of revenue, a $9.6 million increase in operating expense, and a $0.9 million increase in interest expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have consistently generated positive cash flow from operations, providing $82.8 million, $92.5 million, and $60.4 million as a source of funds each year for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Our additional sources of liquidity have included: maintaining adequate balances of cash and cash equivalents, sale of common stock, and accessing our credit facilities and the revolving line of credit. The following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for periods ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021. and as of December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021. 71 Table of Contents 2023 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 82,755 $ 92,543 $ 60,388 Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 234,951 $ 236,586 $ 185,797 Proceeds from sales of common stock $ $ $ 133,351 Term loan credit facilities $ 294,450 $ 297,470 $ 300,490 Available revolving line of credit $ 100,000 $ 100,000 $ 100,000 __________________________________ (1)Cash balance as of December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021 included $47.3 million, $56.4 million, and $39.8 million, respectively, of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States. Our material cash requirements from known contractual obligations as of December 31, 2023 are as follows: TOTAL LESS THAN 1 YEAR 1 TO 3 YEARS 4 TO 5 YEARS MORE THAN 5 YEARS (in thousands) Operating leases $ 11,563 $ 4,250 $ 5,763 $ 1,550 $ Principal payments of long-term debt 294,450 3,020 291,430 Interest on long-term debt(1) 71,911 27,284 44,627 Total $ 377,924 $ 34,554 $ 341,820 $ 1,550 $ __________________________________ (1)Represents the expected cash payments for interest on our long-term debt based on the amounts outstanding as of the end of each period and the interest rates applicable on such debt as of December 31, 2023. We believe our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures, and contractual obligations for the foreseeable future. We believe we will meet longer-term expected future cash requirements and obligations through a combination of cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances, and potential future equity or debt transactions. Our future capital requirements, however, will depend on many factors, including funding needed for potential acquisitions, investments, and other growth and strategic opportunities, which could increase our cash requirements. While we believe we have, and will be able to generate, sufficient liquidity to fund our operations for the foreseeable future, our sources of liquidity could be affected by factors described under Risk Factors elsewhere in this report. 72 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table presents a summary of our cash flows for the periods shown: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 82,755 $ 92,543 $ 60,388 Net cash used in investing activities (79,550) (27,837) (269,922) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (9,447) (7,363) 123,391 Effect due to foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 1,505 (4,279) (524) Net(decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (4,737) $ 53,064 $ (86,667) Cash paid for interest 19,089 17,268 14,169 Cash paid for income taxes 19,320 10,141 8,595 Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities primarily include net income (loss) adjusted for (i) non-cash items included in net income (loss), such as provisions for credit losses, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, deferred taxes and other non-cash items and (ii) changes in the balances of operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $82.8 million, compared to $92.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The $9.8 million decrease in cash provided from operating activities was primarily due to decrease in cash inflow from deferred revenues, increase of cash used to pay for liabilities and taxes, partially offset by higher cash collected from accounts receivables, higher revenue converted to cash for the period, and decreased spending on prepared and other assets. During the year ended December 31, 2022, operating activities provided cash of approximately $92.5 million, compared to $60.4 million for the same period of 2021. The $32.2 million increase in cash from operating activities was primarily due to cash collected from higher revenues and more cash inflow from deferred revenues, partially offset by a decrease in cash used to pay for liabilities and increase in accounts receivables. During the year ended December 31, 2021, operating activities provided cash of approximately $60.4 million. The $15.6 million increase in cash from operating activities compared to the same period of 2020 was primarily due to a decrease in cash paid in interest and taxes, partially offset by cash paid for accounts payable and accrued expense. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 was approximately $79.6 million, an increase of $51.7 million, compared to $27.8 million in 2022. The change in investing activities was primarily due to a $48.9 million increase in cash payments in connection with business acquisitions, and a $2.4 million increase in cash utilized in capitalized development costs. During the year ended December 31, 2022, investing activities used cash approximately $27.8 million, a decrease of $242.1 million, compared to $269.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The change in investing activities was primarily due to a $245.7 million decrease on cash used for business acquisitions, partially offset by cash utilized in capitalized development costs and capital expenditures to support our growth. During the year ended December 31, 2021, investing activities used approximately $269.9 million of cash, an increase of $261.3 million, compared to $8.6 million in 2020. Cash used in investing activities was primarily for 73 Table of Contents investing in business acquisitions, capitalized software development, and capital expenditures to support our growth. Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2023, financing activities used cash of approximately $9.4 million, compared to $7.4 million in the same period of 2022. The $2.1 million increase in cash used from financing activities was primarily due to a $3.4 million increase in cash payments in connection with share awards vested and withheld for payroll tax, partially offset by a $1.1 million decrease in cash payments on the financing component of the interest rate swap. During the year ended December 31, 2022, financing activities used cash of approximately $7.4 million, compared to $123.4 million cash provided by financing activities in the same period of 2021. The $130.8 million decrease in cash provided from financing activities was primarily due to $133.4 million in proceeds received from stock offerings in 2021, partially offset by the increase on tax payment related to shares withheld for employee taxes in 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2021, financing activities provided approximately $123.4 million, compared to $208.2 million in the same period of 2020. The $84.8 million decrease in cash from financing activities was primarily due to $183.0 million less proceeds from stock offerings in 2021 compared to 2020. The decrease was partially offset by $100.4 million decrease in payments on long-term debt in 2021. Indebtedness Credit Facilities We have been a party to a Credit Agreement since August 2017 that provided for a senior secured term loan and commitments under a revolving credit facility. We and our lenders most recently modified the Credit Agreement on June 17, 2021. The maturity date of the term loans under the Credit Agreement is August 2026; the termination date of the revolving credit commitments is August 2025, As of December 31, 2023, we had $294.5 million of outstanding borrowings on the term loan, and $100.0 million of availability under the revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the Eurocurrency rate, with a floor of 0.00%, as adjusted for the reserve percentage required under regulations issued by the Federal Reserve Board for determining maximum reserve requirements with respect to Eurocurrency funding, plus an applicable margin rate of 3.50% for the term loan and between 4.00% and 3.50% for revolving credit loans, depending on the applicable first lien leverage ratio, or (ii) an alternative base rate (ABR), with a floor of 1.00%, plus an applicable margin rate of 2.50% for the term loan or between 3.00% and 2.50% for revolving credit loans, depending on the applicable first lien leverage ratio (with the ABR determined as the greatest of (a) the prime rate, (b) the federal funds effective rate, plus 0.50%), and (c) the Eurocurrency rate plus 1.00%. Additionally, we are obligated to pay commitment fees and other customary fees under the revolving credit facility. In response to the discontinuation of LIBOR, we executed a LIBOR transition amendment in June 2023, formalizing the replacement of LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Funding Rate (SOFR). As part of this modification, a Credit Spread Adjustment (CSA) was introduced to aligning SOFR with LIBOR in terms of the overall interest rate earned by lenders under the Credit Agreement. The CSA varied depending on the selected interest period. All obligations under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by our wholly owned direct and indirect subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions. All obligations under the Credit Agreement, and the 74 Table of Contents guarantees of those obligations, are secured on a first lien basis, subject to certain exceptions, by substantially all of our assets and the assets of the other guarantors. As of December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with the covenants of the Credit Agreement. Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and income tax expense of $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2023, we had federal and state NOLs of approximately $1.6 million and $0.04 million, respectively, which are available to reduce future taxable income and expire between 2035 and 2036 and 2029 and 2040, respectively. We had federal and state R&D tax credit carryforwards of approximately $0.3 million and $0 million, respectively, to offset future income taxes, which expire between 2027 and 2028. We also had foreign tax credits of approximately $13.8 million, which will start to expire in 2027. These carryforwards that may be utilized in a future period may be subject to limitations based upon changes in the ownership of our stock in a future period. Additionally, we carried forward foreign NOLs of approximately $81.6 million which will start to expire in 2024, foreign research and development credits of $0.3 million which expire in 2029, and Canadian investment tax credits of approximately $3.8 million which expire between 2031 and 2041. Our carryforwards are subject to review and possible adjustment by the appropriate taxing authorities. As required by Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 740, Income Taxes, our management has evaluated the positive and negative evidence bearing upon the realizability of our deferred tax assets, which are composed principally of NOL carryforwards, Section 174 carryforwards, investment tax credit carryforward, and foreign tax credit carryforwards. Management has determined that it is more likely than not that we will not realize the benefits of foreign tax credit carryforwards. At the foreign subsidiaries, management has determined that it is more likely than not that we will not realize the benefits of certain NOL carryforwards. As a result, a valuation allowance of $31.5 million is recorded at December 31, 2023. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the periods presented, we did not have, and currently we do not have, any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under the rules and regulations of the SEC. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events, and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our judgments and estimates in light of changes in circumstances, facts, and experience. The effects of material revisions in estimates, if any, are reflected in the consolidated financial statements prospectively from the date of change in estimates. While our significant accounting policies are described in more detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report, we believe the following accounting policies used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements require the most significant judgments and estimates. 75 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Application of GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether promised goods and services specified in an arrangement are distinct performance obligations. Revenue recognition is also impacted by our ability to determine when a contract is probable of collection and to estimate variable consideration. We consider various factors when making these judgments. Our revenue is primarily derived from the sale of software products and delivery of consulting services. We recognize revenue when control of the promised good or service is transferred to the customer in an amount that reflects the consideration for which we are expected to be entitled in exchange for those services. Consulting Service Revenues Our primary professional services offering includes consulting services, which may be either strategic consulting services, reporting and analysis services, regulatory writing services, or any combination of the three. Our professional services contracts are either time-and-materials or fixed fee. Services revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed. Generally, these services are delivered to customers electronically. Revenue from time-and-material contracts is recognized on an output basis as labor hours are delivered and/or direct expenses are incurred. Revenues for fixed price services are generally recognized over time applying input methods to estimate progress to completion. Accordingly, the number of resources being paid for and varying lengths of time they are being paid for, determine the measure of progress. Software Licenses Software license revenue consists primarily of sales of software licenses downloaded and installed by our customers on their own hardware. The license period is generally one year or less and includes an insignificant amount of customer support to assist the customer with the software. Software license performance obligations are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software license has been delivered. Software as a Service (SaaS) Revenues SaaS revenues consists of subscription fees for access to, and related support for, our cloud-based solutions. We typically invoice subscription fees in advance in annual installments. The invoice is initially deferred and revenue is recognized ratably over the life of the contract. Our software contracts do not typically include variable consideration, or options for future purchases that would not be similar to the original goods. Software Services Maintenance services agreements on perpetual licenses consist of fees for providing software updates and for providing technical support for software products for a specified term. Revenue allocated to maintenance services is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the delivery date of each offering. Maintenance contracts generally have a term of one year. While transfer of control of the software training and implementation performance obligations are over time, the services are typically started and completed within a few days. Due to the quick nature of the performance obligation from start to finish and the insignificant amounts, we recognize any software training or implementation revenue at the completion of the service. Any unrecognized portion of amounts paid in advance for licenses and services is recorded as deferred revenue. 76 Table of Contents Arrangements with Multiple Performance Obligations For contracts with multiple performance obligations, such as a software license plus software training, implementation, and/or maintenance/support, or in contracts where there are multiple software licenses, we determine if the products or services are distinct and allocates the consideration to each distinct performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis (SSP). The delivery of a particular type of software and each of the user licenses would be one performance obligation. Additionally, any training, implementation, or support and maintenance promises as part of the software license agreement would be considered separate performance obligations, as those promises are distinct and separately identifiable from the software licenses. The payment terms in these arrangements are less than one year such that there is no significant financing component to the transaction. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually, during the fourth quarter based on balances as of October 1st, and more frequently on an interim basis if we believe indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is one level below or the same as an operating segment. The application of an interim or the annual goodwill impairment test begins with the identification of reporting units, which requires judgment. We determined that we have three reporting units as of October 1, 2023 and December 31, 2023: the software reporting unit (Software), the SimCyp reporting unit (SimCyp), and the Drug Development Solutions reporting unit (CDDS), which are within a single operating segment of the Company. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. Our review of impairment starts with performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether events or circumstances lead to a determination that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting units are less than their carrying amounts. Our qualitative assessment of the recoverability of goodwill considers various macroeconomic, industry-specific and company-specific factors. These factors include: (1) the nature of the business and the history of the Company and its reporting units from their inception; (2) the economic outlook in general and the condition and outlook of the industry in which the Company and its reporting units operate; (3) the financial condition of the Company and its reporting units; (4) the earnings capacity of the Company and its reporting units; (5) the dividend-paying capacity of the Company and its reporting units; (6) whether goodwill or other intangible value exists within the Company and/or its reporting units; (7) previous sales of the Companys and/or reporting units stock and the size of the block of stock to be valued; and (8) the market prices of stocks of corporations engaged in the same or a similar line of business having their stocks actively traded in a free and open market, either on an exchange or over-the-counter. After assessing the totality of events and circumstances, if we determine that it is not more-likely-than-not that the fair values of our reporting units are less than their net book values, no further assessment is performed. If we determine that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair values of our reporting units are less than carrying value or if we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment, we proceed to a quantitative assessment or test of goodwill. If a quantitative assessment of goodwill is required, the determination of the fair value of a reporting unit will involve the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Our quantitative goodwill impairment test uses both the income approach and the market approach to estimate fair value. The income approach is based on the discounted cash flow method that discounts forecasted future cash flows expected to be generated which are based on the Company's estimates of financial performance including revenues, adjusted EBITDA, taxes, and working capital and capital asset requirements. When performing our market approach, we rely specifically on the guideline public company method. Our guideline public company method incorporates revenues and EBITDA multiples from publicly traded companies with operations and other characteristics similar to our entity. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. 77 Table of Contents We performed the annual goodwill impairment analysis during the fourth quarter. The quantitative assessments resulted in no impairment as the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. During the third quarter of 2023, we performed an interim goodwill impairment test for regulatory writing reporting unit, which was integrated into the CDDS reporting unit at the end of third quarter 2023. The fair value of regulatory writing reporting unit was determined to be less than its carrying value, resulting in a goodwill impairment charge of $47.0 million for the reporting unit. The fair value of that reporting unit was estimated using a combination of the discounted cash flow method and the guideline public company method. Our other intangible assets primarily consist of customer relationship assets, software products acquired in acquisitions, trade names, software development costs, and non-compete agreements. Other identifiable intangible assets with finite lives, such as software products acquired in acquisitions, non-compete agreements, trade names, customer relationship assets, and patents, are amortized over their estimated lives using either a straight-line method or a method based on pattern of expected economic benefit of the asset as follows: acquired software 3 to 15 years; non-compete agreements 2 to 5 years; customer relationships 11 to 16 years;trade names 10 to 20 years; and patents 5 years. The Company evaluates finite intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset might not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset are less than its carrying amount. Software Development Costs Software development costs are accounted for in accordance with ASC Subtopic 985-20 if the software is to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed, or by ASC Subtopic 350-40 if the software is for internal use. After the technological feasibility of the software has been established (for software to be marketed), or at the beginning of application development (for internal-use software), software development costs, which include primarily salaries and related payroll costs and costs of independent contractors incurred during development, are capitalized. Research and development costs incurred prior to the establishment of technological feasibility (for software to be marketed), or prior to application development (for internal-use software), are expensed as incurred. Software development costs are amortized on a product-by-product basis commencing on the date of general release of the products (for software to be marketed) or the date placed in service (for internal-use software). Income Taxes We are subject to the income tax laws and regulations of the many jurisdictions in which we operate. These tax laws and regulations are complex and involve uncertainties in the application to our facts and circumstances that may be open to interpretation. We account for uncertainty in income taxes using a two-step approach. The first step requires the Company to conclude that a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by a tax authority. The second step requires to measure the largest amount of benefit, determined on a cumulative probability basis, that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement with tax authority. We recognize benefits for these uncertain tax positions in the period during which, based on all available evidence, we believe it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50%) that the position will be sustained upon examination. This process is inherently subjective since it requires our assessment of the probability of future outcomes. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis, including consideration of changes in facts and circumstances. On a quarterly basis, we also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income and reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by recording a valuation allowance if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of such assets will not be realized. 78 Table of Contents Business Acquisitions When we acquire businesses, we allocate the purchase price to tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets acquired at their acquisition date fair values. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. We also estimate the fair value of any contingent consideration using Level 3 unobservable inputs. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are uncertain and involve significant judgments by management. We classified our contingent considerations as liabilities and remeasure the fair value of contingent liabilities related to revenue thresholds quarterly until the contingency are resolved. The changes in fair value will be recognized in earnings in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Standards We have reviewed all recently issued standards and have determined that, other than as disclosed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report, such standards will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or do not otherwise apply to our operations.