Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of CEVA, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Headquartered in Mountain View, California, CEVA is a leading licensor of signal processing IP for a smarter, connected world. We partner with semiconductor companies and OEMs worldwide to create power-efficient, intelligent and connected devices for a range of end markets, including mobile, consumer, automotive, industrial and Internet of Things (IoT). Our ultra-low-power IPs for vision, neural networks, sound, long and short range wireless, include comprehensive DSP-based platforms for LTE/LTE-A/5G baseband processing in handsets, infrastructure and IoT devices, advanced imaging, computer vision and deep learning for any camera-enabled device, as well as sound/voice/audio applications for multiple IoT markets. For short range wireless, we offer the industrys most widely adopted IPs for Bluetooth (low energy and dual mode) and Wi-Fi (802.11 b/g/n/ac up to 4x4). We also offer wired interface for storage (SATA and SAS). Our technologies are licensed to leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies throughout the world. These companies incorporate our IP into application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard products (ASSPs) that they manufacture, market and sell to wireless, consumer, automotive and IoT companies. Our state-of-the-art technology has shipped in more than 8 billion chips to date for a wide range of diverse end markets. One in three handsets sold worldwide is powered by CEVA. Our DSPs power many leading handset OEMs in the world today, including a tier-one U.S. brand, ASUS, Coolpad, HTC, Huawei, Intex, Karbonn, Lava, Lenovo, LG, Meizu, Micromax, OPPO, Samsung, Vivo, Xiaomi, ZTE and hundreds of local handset manufacturers in China and India. Based on internal data and Strategy Analytics provisional worldwide shipment data, CEVAs worldwide market share of handset baseband chips that incorporate our technologies was approximately 35% of the worldwide shipment volume in the first half of 2017. We believe the adoption of our signal processing IP cores and software for applications outside of the cellular baseband market continues to progress. As a testament to this growing trend, during the third quarter of 2017, we concluded eight licensing deals, all of which are for non-cellular baseband applications. These license deals demonstrate that our technologies are being integrated into a broad range of end devices including 5G base stations, smartphones, automotive ADAS, drones, surveillance cameras, wearables, industrial IoT and a variety of Bluetooth and Wi-Fi connected consumer and medical products. Moreover, during the third quarter, our royalty revenues derived from non-cellular baseband products approximately doubled year-over-year, contributing more than $2 million of royalty revenues during the quarter. We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: CEVA is firmly established in the largest space in the semiconductor industry baseband for mobile handsets. In particular, our presence in the LTE smartphone markets continue to grow as our customers targeting those markets are gaining market share at the expense of the incumbents. During the first nine months of 2017, we reported 228 million LTE chipsets shipped, which is more than the amount that was shipped in the entire year of 2016. The royalty we derive from smartphones is higher on average than that of feature phones, so we are set to benefit as handset markets around the world continue to transition and shift away from feature phones to smartphones, particularly in emerging economies. Our specialization and competitive edge in digital signal processor technologies for next generation wireless such as LTE-A Pro, 5G, LTE-IoT, 802.11ac and 802.11ax Wi-Fi technologies, and the inherent low cost and power and performance balance of our designs, put us in a strong position to simultaneously capitalize on mass market adoption of such technologies and address multiple markets and product sectors, including handsets, macro base stations, small cells, Wi-Fi routers and varieties of machine type communications such as connected cars, smart cities, industrial markets and more. 18 Table of Contents Together with our presence in the handset baseband market, our Bluetooth and Wi-Fi IPs allow us to expand further into IoT applications and substantially increase our overall addressable market. Our addressable market size is expected to be 35 billion devices by 2020, per data from ABI Research. Already, shipments of products incorporating our Bluetooth IP are sizeable, with more than 139 million CEVA-powered Bluetooth chips shipped in the first nine months of 2017, which is more than the amount that was shipped in the entire year of 2016. The growing market potential for voice assisted devices, as voice is becoming the primary user interface for IoT applications, including mobile, automotive and consumer devices, offers an additional growth segment for the company. Our proven track record in audio/voice processing, with more than 6 billion audio chips shipped to date, puts us in a strong position to power audio roadmaps across this new range of addressable end markets. Our CEVA-XM4 intelligent vision processor and our new CEVA-XM6 vision processor and platform for deep learning provide highly compelling offerings for any camera-enabled device such as smartphones, tablets, automotive safety (ADAS), Autonomous Driving (AD), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), drones, and signage. Per ABI Research, camera shipments are expected to exceed 2.7 billion units by 2018. We have already signed more than 45 licensing agreements for our imaging and vision DSPs across those markets, where our customers can add camera-related enhancements such as smarter autofocus, better picture using super resolution algorithms, and better image capture in low-light environments. Other customers can add video analytics support to enable new services like augmented reality, gesture recognition and advanced safety capabilities in cars. This transformation in vision processing and neural net software and hardware needs is an opportunity for us to expand our footprint and content in smartphones, tablets, drones, surveillance, automotive ADAS and industrial IoT applications. As a result of our diversification strategy beyond baseband for handsets and our progress in addressing those new markets under the IoT umbrella, we expect significant growth in revenues derived from non-handset baseband applications over the next few years, due to a combination of higher unit shipments of Bluetooth products that bear lower ASPs, with higher ASPs driven by base station and vision products. Notwithstanding the various growth opportunities we have outlined above, our business operates in a highly competitive and cyclical environment. The maintenance of our competitive position and our future growth are dependent on our ability to adapt to ever-changing technologies, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and the trend towards Internet-of-Things, handset baseband, connectivity, and voice, audio and video convergence in the markets that we operate. Also, our business relies significantly on revenues derived from a limited number of customers. The discontinuation of product lines or market sectors that incorporate our technology by our significant customers or a change in direction of their business and our inability to adapt our technology to their new business needs could have material negative implications for our future royalty revenues. Moreover, competition has historically increased pricing pressures for our products and decreased our average selling prices. Royalty payments under our existing license agreements also could be lower than currently anticipated for a variety of reasons, including decreased royalty rates triggered by larger volume shipments, lower royalty rates negotiated with customers due to competitive pressure or consolidation among our customers. Some of our competitors have reduced their licensing and royalty fees to attract customers and expand their market share. In order to penetrate new markets and maintain our market share with our existing products, we may need to offer our products in the future at lower prices which may result in lower profits. In addition, our future growth is dependent not only on the continued success of our existing products but also the successful introduction of new products, which requires the dedication of resources into research and development which in turn may increase our operating expenses. Furthermore, since our products are incorporated into end products of our OEM and semiconductor customers, our business is very dependent on their ability to achieve market acceptance of their end products in the handset and consumer electronic markets, which are similarly very competitive. In addition, macroeconomic trends may significantly affect our operating results. For example, consolidation among our customers may negatively affect our revenue source, increase our existing customers negotiation leverage and make us more dependent on a limited number of customers. Also, since we derive a significant portion of our revenues from the handset baseband market, any negative trends in that market would adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries remain volatile, which makes it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast financial results and plan for future business activities. Our license arrangements have not historically provided for substantial ongoing license payments so revenue recognized from licensing arrangements vary significantly from period to period, depending on the number and size of deals closed during a quarter, and is difficult to predict. Moreover, our royalty revenues are based on the sales of products incorporating the semiconductors or other products of our customers, and as a result we do not have direct access to information that will help us anticipate the timing and amount of future royalties. We have very little visibility into the timetable of product shipments incorporating our technology by our customers. As a result, our past operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. 19 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $24.0 and $65.9 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, representing an increase of 35% and 28%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2016. Five largest customers accounted for 75% and 59% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to 65% and 64% for the comparable periods in 2016. Four customers accounted for 20%, 18%, 12% and 21% of our total revenues for the third quarter of 2017, as compared to two customers that accounted for 27% and 21% of our total revenues for the third quarter of 2016. Two customers accounted for 22% and 17% of our total revenues for the first nine months of 2017, as compared to two customers that accounted for 27% and 19% of our total revenues for the first nine months of 2016. Sales to Spreadtrum represented 20% and 22% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to 27% for both comparable periods in 2016. Generally, the identity of our other customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, two royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, and collectively represented 68% and 74% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. Three royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter of 2016, and collectively represented 86% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter of 2016. Two royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the first nine months of 2016, and collectively represented 81% of our total royalty revenues for the first nine months of 2016. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. The following table sets forth the products and services as percentages of our total revenues for each of the periods set forth below: Nine months 2017 Nine months 2016 Third Quarter 2017 Third Quarter 2016 DSP products (DSP cores and platforms): Baseband for handset and other devices 63 % 66 % 73 % 65 % Other non-baseband (audio, imaging and vision) 24 % 15 % 16 % 14 % Connectivity products (Bluetooth, WiFi and SATA/SAS) 13 % 19 % 11 % 21 % We expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues for 2017 from the above products and services. Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $14.0 million and $33.9 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, an all-time record high, representing an increase of 88% and 44%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2016. The increase in licensing and related revenues for the third quarter of 2017 was due to a combination of higher licensing revenues and activities from all business lines (other than connectivity), including recognition of revenue from a prior 5G related licensing agreement that was previously recorded as part of our backlog. The increase in licensing and related revenues for the first nine months of 2017 was due to higher licensing revenues and activities associated with vision and base station technologies and products, which are part of the companys successful diversification strategy over the last few years. Licensing and related revenues accounted for 58% and 51% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, compared to 42% and 46% for the comparable periods of 2016. During the third quarter of 2017, we concluded eight new licensing deals. Of the eight new licensing deals completed during the quarter, three were with first time customers, and all of the licensing agreements completed during the quarter were for non-handset baseband applications. Two of the agreements were for CEVA DSP cores, platforms and software and six were for CEVA connectivity IPs. Target markets for the licenses include 5G base stations, AI for smartphones and consumer and industrial IoT. Geographically, two of the deals signed were in China, three were in the U.S., and three were in the APAC region. Our licensing business is progressing well with a solid pipeline, diverse customer base and target markets. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $10.0 million and $32.0 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, representing a decrease of 4% and an increase of 15%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2016. Royalty revenues accounted for 42% and 49% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as 20 Table of Contents compared to 58% and 54% for the comparable periods of 2016. The slight decrease in royalty revenues for the third quarter of 2017 reflects noticeable softness across major handset vendors and regions. In particular, China was experiencing excess inventory levels in low cost smartphones, partially due to slower migration to LTE smartphones in India and a pushout of a flagship model in the smartphone space. This was partially offset by higher volume shipments and royalty revenues of our non-handset baseband products. As examples, higher vision-related royalty revenues were derived from new smartphones and cameras going into production during 2017 using our vision platform and higher volume shipments were evidenced by initial royalty reports from base station products utilizing our technologies. The increase in royalty revenues for the first nine months of 2017 reflects an increase in LTE baseband shipments and non-handset baseband shipments in all of our different markets. Our customers reported sales of 250 million and 871 million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to 270 million and 726 million for the comparable periods of 2016. Of those volumes, 61 million and 184 million were attributed to non-handset baseband for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to 52 million and 131 million for the comparable periods of 2016. The decrease in chipsets for the third quarter of 2017 is attributable to a decrease in smartphone shipments. The increase in chipsets for the first nine months of 2017 is attributable to an increase in our non-handset baseband products and overall higher handset shipments. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 87% and 89% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to 94% and 92% for the comparable periods of 2016. Geographic Revenue Analysis Nine months 2017 Nine months 2016 Third Quarter 2017 Third Quarter 2016 (in millions, except percentages) (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 6.1 10 % $ 7.3 14 % $ 1.2 5 % $ 2.1 12 % Europe and Middle East $ 7.5 11 % $ 7.5 15 % $ 1.3 5 % $ 3.0 17 % Asia Pacific (1) (2) $ 52.3 79 % $ 36.7 71 % $ 21.5 90 % $ 12.7 71 % (1)China $ 31.0 47 % $ 23.1 45 % $ 15.2 63 % $ 7.1 40 % (2)S. Korea $ 13.9 21 % $ 11.3 22 % $ 5.1 21 % $ 4.9 27 % Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues was $1.7 million and $5.0 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to $1.4 million and $4.5 million for the comparable periods of 2016. Cost of revenues accounted for 7% and 8% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to 8% and 9% for the comparable periods of 2016. The increase for the third quarter of 2017 principally reflected higher payments to IIA. The increase for the first nine months of 2017 principally reflected higher salary and related costs, higher payments to the IIA and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by lower customization work for our licensees. Included in cost of revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $125,000 and $330,000, respectively, as compared to $65,000 and $179,000 for the comparable periods of 2016. Gross Margin Gross margin for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 was 93% and 92%, respectively, as compared to 92% and 91% for the comparable periods of 2016. The increase for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 mainly reflected higher revenues. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $16.1 million and $48.2 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to $12.6 million and $38.7 million for the comparable periods of 2016. The net increase in total operating expenses for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 principally reflected lower research grants received from the IIA, higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses and higher salary and related costs, mainly due to higher headcount associated with accelerated strategic research and development programs and collaborations with our customers to expedite their production ramps. 21 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses, Net Our research and development expenses, net, were $10.0 million and $30.4 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to $7.3 million and $23.1 million for the comparable periods of 2016. The net increase for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 principally reflected lower research grants received from the IIA, higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses and higher salary and related costs, mainly due to higher headcount associated with accelerated strategic research and development programs and collaborations with our customers to expedite their production ramps. Included in research and development expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $991,000 and $2,834,000, respectively, as compared to $741,000 and $2,162,000 for the comparable periods of 2016. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 42% and 46% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to 41% and 45% for the comparable periods of 2016. The number of research and development personnel was 224 at September 30, 2017, compared to 202 at September 30, 2016. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $3.1 million and $9.4 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to $2.8 million and $8.5 million for the comparable periods of 2016. The increase for the third quarter of 2017 primarily reflected higher salary and related costs and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by lower commission costs. The increase for the first nine months of 2017 primarily reflected higher salary and related costs and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $381,000 and $1,040,000, respectively, as compared to $179,000 and $681,000 for the comparable periods of 2016. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 13% and 14% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to 15% and 16% for the comparable periods of 2016. The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 34 at both September 30, 2017 and September 30, 2016. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $2.7 million and $7.4 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to $2.2 million and $6.3 million for the comparable periods of 2016. The increase for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 primarily reflected higher professional services and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in general and administrative expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $722,000 and $2,142,000, respectively, as compared to $580,000 and $1,626,000 for the comparable periods of 2016. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 11% for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, as compared to 12% for both the comparable periods of 2016. The number of general and administrative personnel was 26 at September 30, 2017, compared to 24 at September 30, 2016. Amortization of intangible assets Our amortization charges were $0.3 million and $0.9 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to $0.3 million and $0.9 million for the comparable periods of 2016. The charges were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of RivieraWaves in July 2014. As of September 30, 2017, the net amount of intangible assets was $2.1 million. Financial Income, Net (in millions) Nine months 2017 Nine months 2016 Third Quarter 2017 Third Quarter 2016 Financial income, net $ 2.15 $ 1.62 $ 0.82 $ 0.62 of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 2.20 $ 1.65 $ 0.79 $ 0.63 Foreign exchange loss $ (0.05 ) $ (0.03 ) $ 0.03 $ (0.01 ) Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities and foreign exchange movements. The increase in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 principally reflected higher combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held and higher yields. 22 Table of Contents We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. This has resulted in a foreign exchange gain of $0.03 million and a foreign exchange loss of $0.05 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, as compared to a foreign exchange loss of $0.01 million and $0.03 million for the comparable periods of 2016. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses were $1.2 million and $1.0 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively, as compared to $1.0 million and $2.0 million for the comparable periods of 2016. The increase for the third quarter of 2017 primarily reflected higher income before taxes on income. The decrease for the first nine months of 2017 primarily reflected a tax benefit of $1.8 million due to the release of a tax provision as a result of the completion of a tax audit in a certain foreign tax jurisdiction, partially offset by higher income before taxes on income. Currently, our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary qualified for a 33.3% tax rate on its profits. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits by virtue of the Approved Enterprise and/or Benefited Enterprise status granted to its eight investment programs, as defined by the Israeli Investment Law. In accordance with the Investment Law, our Israeli subsidiarys first seven investment programs were subject to corporate tax rate of 24% for the first nine months of 2017, and our Israeli subsidiarys eighth investment program was subject to corporate tax rate of 10% for the first nine months of 2017. However, our Israeli subsidiary is eligible for the erosion of tax basis with respect to its first seven investment programs, and this resulted in an increase in the taxable income attributable to the eighth investment program, which was subject to a reduced tax rate of 10% for the first nine months of 2017. The tax benefits under our Israeli subsidiarys active investment programs are scheduled to gradually expire starting in 2020. To maintain our Israeli subsidiarys eligibility for the above tax benefits, it must continue to meet certain conditions under the Investment Law. Should our Israeli subsidiary fail to meet such conditions in the future, these benefits would be cancelled and it would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the standard corporate rate and could be required to refund tax benefits already received, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, fair value of financial instruments, equity-based compensation and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, filed with the SEC on March 10, 2017, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of September 30, 2017, we had approximately $22.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, $41.0 million in short term bank deposits, $74.5 million in marketable securities, and $39.2 million in long term bank deposits, totaling $177.6 million, as compared to $156.5 million at December 31, 2016. The increase for the first nine months of 2017 principally reflected cash provided by operations and cash proceeds from exercise of stock-based awards, partially offset by the purchase of computers and platform tools during the first nine months of 2017, mainly for our research and development activities . Out of total cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities of $177.6 million, $134.5 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes as well as taxes in other countries to repatriate these funds. The determination of the amount of additional taxes related to the repatriation of these earnings is not practicable, as it may vary based on various factors such as the location of the cash and the effect of regulation in the various jurisdictions from which the cash would be repatriated. 23 Table of Contents During the first nine months of 2017, we invested $67.2 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 58 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $50.3 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of income. We did not recognize any other-than-temporarily-impaired charges on marketable securities during the first nine months of 2017. For more information about our marketable securities, see Notes 3 to the attached Notes to the Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the first nine months of 2017 was $17.7 million and consisted of net income of $13.9 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $9.6 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.8 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $2.4 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $6.3 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.9 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The decrease in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $2.6 million (mainly as a result of an increase in French research tax credits which is generally refunded every three years), an increase in deferred tax assets, net, of $0.7 million, a decrease of deferred revenues of $2.0 million, a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $1.5 million and a decrease in income taxes payable of $1.5 million (mainly due to a release of a tax provision as a result of the completion of a tax audit in a certain foreign tax jurisdiction), partially offset by a decrease in trade receivables of $2.2 million and an increase in accrued expenses and other payables of $0.4 million. Cash provided in operating activities for the first nine months of 2016 was $2.0 million and consisted of net income of $7.9 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $7.3 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $13.2 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $1.9 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $4.6 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.8 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The decrease in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in trade receivables of $13.2 million (mainly due to one of our large customers internal reorganization of its financial and legal entities which affected the timing of payments to us), an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.4 million, an increase in accrued interest on bank deposits of $0.4 million, an increase in deferred tax assets, net, of $0.6 million, and a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $0.4 million, partially offset by an increase in trade payables of $0.4 million, an increase in deferred revenues of $1.3 million and an increase in income tax payables of $0.9 million. Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from R&D government grants and French research tax credits, and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first nine months of 2017 was $20.2 million, compared to $6.4 million of net cash used by investing activities for the comparable period of 2016. We had a cash outflow of $36.5 million and a cash inflow of $23.3 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first nine months of 2017, as compared to a cash outflow of $32.5 million and a cash inflow of $21.6 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first nine months of 2016. For the first nine months of 2017, we had net investments of $3.7 million in bank deposits, as compared to net proceeds of $6.5 million from bank deposits for the comparable period of 2016. We had a cash outflow of $3.3 million and $2.0 million during the first nine months of 2017 and 2016, respectively, from purchase of property and equipment (mainly for purchase of platform tools in both periods). 24 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the first nine months of 2017 was $6.9 million, compared to $5.6 million of net cash provided by financing activities for the comparable period of 2016. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock which was further extended collectively by an additional five million shares in 2010, 2013 and 2014. We did not repurchase shares of common stock during the first nine months of 2017. During the first nine months of 2016, we repurchased 180,013 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $18.98 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $3.4 million. During the first nine months of 2017, we received $6.9 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $9.0 million received for the comparable period of 2016. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk FactorsWe may seek to expand our business in ways that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. for more detailed information.