ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this annual report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those included in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under Risk Factors, as well as those otherwise discussed in this section and elsewhere in this annual report. See Forward-Looking Statements and Industry Data. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The following discussion and analysis is intended to provide an investor with a narrative of our financial results and an evaluation of our financial condition and results of operations. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2023, both appearing elsewhere in this annual report. Headquartered in Rockville, Maryland, Ceva is the leader in innovative silicon and software IP solutions that enable smart edge products to connect, sense, and infer data more reliably and efficiently. With the industrys only portfolio of comprehensive communications and scalable edge AI IP, Ceva powers the connectivity, sensing, and inference in todays most advanced smart edge products across consumer IoT, mobile, automotive, infrastructure, industrial, and personal computing. More than 17 billion of the worlds most innovative smart edge products from AI-infused smartwatches, IoT devices and wearables to autonomous vehicles, 5G mobile networks. and more are powered by Ceva. Ceva is a trusted partner to over 400 of the leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies targeting a wide variety of cellular and IoT end markets, including mobile, PC, consumer, automotive, smart-home, surveillance, robotics, industrial and medical. The customers incorporate our IP into application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard products (ASSPs) that they manufacture, market and sell to consumer electronics companies. Our application software IP is licensed primarily to OEMs who embed it in their System on Chip (SoC) designs to enhance the user experience, and OEMs also license our hardware IP products and solutions for their SoC designs to create power-efficient, intelligent, secure and connected devices. Cevas wireless communications, sensing and Edge AI technologies are at the heart of some of todays most advanced smart edge products. From Bluetooth connectivity, Wi-Fi, UWB and 5G platform IP for ubiquitous, robust communications, to scalable Edge AI neural processing unit (NPU) IPs, sensor fusion processors and embedded application software that make devices smarter. Ceva is a sustainability and environmentally conscious company. We have adopted both a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and a Sustainability Policy, in which we emphasize and focus on environmental preservation, recycling, the welfare of our employees and privacy which we promote on a corporate level. At Ceva, we are committed to social responsibility, values of preservation and consciousness towards these purposes. On September 14, 2023, Ceva and its then wholly owned subsidiary, Intrinsix Corp. (Intrinsix), a Massachusetts-based provider of design engineering solutions focused on the U.S. Aerospace & Defense industry, entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (the Agreement) with Cadence Design Systems, Inc. (Cadence), pursuant to which Cadence agreed to purchase all of the issued and outstanding capital shares of Intrinsix from Ceva for $35 million in cash, subject to other certain purchase price adjustments as provided for in the Agreement (the Transaction). The closing of the Transaction occurred on October 2, 2023. At the closing, an amount of $300,000 from the consideration was deposited with a third-party escrow agent for the purposes of satisfying any additional post-closing purchase price adjustments owed by Ceva to Cadence, and a further amount of $3.5 million of the consideration was deposited with the same escrow agent for a period of 18 months as security for Cevas indemnification obligations to Cadence in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement. The Agreement includes certain representations, warranties and covenants of the parties, and Ceva has agreed to certain non-competition and non-solicitation terms, which are subject to certain exceptions. We believe our portfolio of wireless communications and sensing and Edge AI technologies address some of the most important megatrends, including 5G, generative AI, industrial automation and vehicle electrification. We continue to experience strong interest across our IP portfolio due to these trends, in both traditional and new areas. In the fourth quarter of 2023, seventeen IP licensing deals were concluded, spanning all areas of our portfolio. 36 Table of Contents We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: Our broad Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, Ultra Wide Band (UWB) and cellular IoT IPs allow us to address the high volume IoT industrial, consumer and smart home markets. Our addressable market size for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, UWB and cellular IoT is expected to be more than 15 billion devices annually by 2027 based on research from ABI Research. In 2023, we signed 37 deals for our Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, UWB and cellular IoT IPs, reinforcing our market leading position for these technologies. In particular, we believe that Wi-Fi presents a significant royalty revenue opportunity, given our dominant market position in licensing Wi-Fi 6 with more than 40 customers to date and leadership position in Wi-Fi 7 IP. Our PentaG2 platform and digital signal processors (DSPs) for 5G mobile broadband and 5G RedCap is the most comprehensive baseband IP platform in the industry today and provides newcomers and incumbents with a comprehensive solution to address the need for 5G processing for fixed wireless access, satellite communications and a range of connected devices such as robots, cars, smart cities and other devices for industrial applications. Our PentaG RAN platform for 5G RAN settings is the most comprehensive baseband processor IP in the industry today and provides newcomers and incumbents with a comprehensive solution to address the need for 5G and other communications in data centers and infrastructure. The high volume consumer audio markets, including True Wireless Stereo (TWS) earbuds, smartwatches, AR and VR headsets, and other wearable assisted devices, offers an incremental growth segment for us for our Bluetooth, Audio AI DSPs and software IPs. For OEMs to better address this market, our RealSpace Spatial Audio & Head Tracking Solution, WhisPro speech recognition technology and ClearVox voice input software are available to enhance the user experience and offer premium features. Our SensPro2 sensor hub AI DSP family is designed to address the growing demand for efficient, high-performance signal processing in sensor-based applications across various industries and applications such as smartphones, automotive safety (ADAS), autonomous driving (AD), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), natural language processing (NLP) and voice recognition. Research from Bloomberg Intelligence forecasts that hardware revenue associated with computer vision AI products and conversational AI devices will reach $61 billion and $108 billion, respectively by 2030, indicating the size of the market opportunity. This sensor hub AI DSP enables us to address the transformation in devices enabled by these applications, and expand our footprint and content in smartphones, drones, consumer cameras, surveillance, automotive ADAS, voice-enabled devices and industrial IoT applications. Transformer and classic neural networks are increasingly being deployed in a wide range of devices in order to make these devices smarter. Our newest generation family of AI NPUs present a highly-efficient and high performance architecture to enable generative and classic AI on any device including communication gateways, optically connected networks, cars, notebooks and tablets, AR/VR headsets, smartphones, and any other cloud or edge use case from the edge all the way to the cloud. Per research from Yole Group, 2.5 billion Edge AI devices will ship annually by 2026, illustrating the huge potential of the market. Our sensor fusion and spatial audio application software allows us to address an important technology piece used in personal computers, robotics, TWS earbuds, smart TVs and many other smart sensing IP products, in addition to our existing portfolio for camera-based computer vision and AI processing, and microphone-based sound processing. MEMS-based inertial and environmental sensors are used in an increasing number of devices, including robotics, smartphones, laptops, tablets, TWS earbuds, spatial audio headsets, remote controls and many other consumer and industrial devices. Hillcrest Labs innovative and proven MotionEngine software supports a broad range of merchant sensor chips and is processor-agnostic in order to address the requirements of any OEM or semiconductor company that wishes to enhance their customer user experience. The MotionEngine software has already shipped in more than 300 million devices, indicative of its market traction and excellence. Along with our SensPro sensor hub AI DSPs, our licensees now benefit from our capabilities as a complete, one-stop-shop for processing all classes and types of sensors. 37 Table of Contents As a result of our focus on silicon and software IP solutions that enable products to connect, sense, and infer data, we believe we are well positioned for long-term growth in shipments and royalty revenues derived from smart edge products. Royalty rates from these products are comprised of a range of ASPs, spanning from high volume Bluetooth and Wi-Fi to high value sensor fusion and base station RAN. The royalty ASP of our other products will be in between the two ranges. CURRENT TRENDS We believe that as the continuing digital transformation drives industries to become connected and intelligent, our ubiquitous technology and collaborative business model present a significant and secular growth prospect. We intend to continue to capitalize on the semiconductor momentum with our portfolio of technologies to enable three main use cases associated with smart edge devices: connect, sense and infer. We intend to focus on four main markets, which are consumer, automotive, industrial and infrastructure, which we believe are large, diversified and represent the greatest opportunities for long-term growth. We will also continue to serve the mobile and PC markets where we have established customers and market presence. We believe our key customers are keenly receptive to our products roadmap around connect, sense and infer, and that they are willing to expand the scope of engagements with us as our roadmap aligns with their technology needs. Furthermore, we anticipate that we can expand our customer base and revenues in Europe and the U.S., complementing our strong presence in China, Taiwan, Japan and the remainder of the APAC region. Various global, macroeconomic and industry phenomenon significantly adversely impacted our business in 2023, including decreased investment in semiconductor companies due to interest rates and other factors and the end of a period of exceptional consumer end market demand related to COVID spending following the substantial completion of most companies shift to hybrid work environments, and certain of these phenomenon continue to adversely affect the semiconductor industry and its end markets. Against this difficult backdrop, however, we believe our strategy will yield results, with overall revenue expected to grow 4% to 8% over 2023. Most of this growth is expected to be concentrated in the second half of the year, including due to typical seasonality in lower shipments of consumer IoT and mobile products post the holiday season, which we expect will contribute to overall revenues being 2% to 6% lower in the first quarter of 2024 compared to the fourth quarter of 2023, and with a different mix of licensing and royalty revenues than from the fourth quarter of 2023. In the coming year, we expect our licensing and related revenues business will continue to expand into new markets and use cases in the industrial IoT (IIoT) and consumer IoT, offering connectivity platforms, sensing platforms and software, AI solutions (including AI engines, NPUs and software) and more. On royalties, we expect our connectivity products to continue to show strength in 2024, particularly related to our Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and cellular IoT business lines, with the expected ramp of automotive ADAS royalties in the second half of the year. The smartphone market related revenues have continued to decrease for us in recent years due to these trends. Instability in the Middle East Our operations in Israel remain largely unaffected by the war between Israel and Hamas that began on October 7, 2023, and we continue to drive our business and support our customers globally. However, a portion of our employees in Israel have been called to active reserve duty and additional employees may be called in the future, if needed. The Company has executed its business continuity plan with respect to those employees. It is possible that some of our operations in the region may be disrupted if this continues for a significant period of time or if the situation further deteriorates. 38 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The significant accounting policies that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following: revenue recognition; business combinations and valuation of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets; income taxes; equity-based compensation; and credit losses of marketable securities. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by U.S. GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Revenue Recognition Significant management judgments and estimates must be made and used in connection with the recognition of revenue in any accounting period. Material differences in the amount of revenue in any given period may result if these judgments or estimates prove to be incorrect or if managements estimates change on the basis of development of business or market conditions. Managements judgments and estimates have been applied consistently and have been reliable historically. The following is a description of principal activities from which we generate revenue. Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services are transferred to the customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: Identification of the contract with a customer; Identification of the performance obligations in the contract; Determination of the transaction price; Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, as detailed below, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. We generate our revenues from (1) licensing intellectual properties, which in certain circumstances are modified for customer-specific requirements, (2) royalty revenues and (3) other revenues, which include revenues from support, training and sale of development systems and chips. We license our IP to semiconductor companies throughout the world. These semiconductor companies then manufacture, market and sell custom-designed chipsets to OEMs of a variety of consumer electronics products. We also license our technology directly to OEMs, which are considered end users. 39 Table of Contents We account for our IP license revenues and related services, which provide our customers with rights to use our IP, in accordance with ASC 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers" (ASC 606"). A license may be perpetual or time limited in its application. In accordance with ASC 606, we recognize revenue from IP license at the time of delivery when the customer obtains control of the IP, as the IP is functional without professional services, updates and technical support. We have concluded that our IP licenses are distinct as the customer can benefit from the licenses on their own. Most of our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations. For these contracts, we account for individual performance obligations separately, if they are distinct. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Stand-alone selling prices of IP license are typically estimated using the residual approach. Stand-alone selling prices of services are typically estimated based on observable transactions when these services are sold on a standalone basis. Revenues from contracts that involve significant customization of our IP to customer-specific specifications are considered as one performance obligation satisfied over-time. Revenue related to these projects is recognized over time, usually based on a percentage that incurred labor effort to date bears to total projected labor effort. Incurred effort represents work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby best depicts, the transfer of control to the customer. Provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are made during the period in which such losses are first determined, in the amount of the estimated loss on the entire contract. Significant judgment is required when estimating total labor effort and progress to completion on these arrangements, as well as whether a loss is expected to be incurred on the project. Revenues that are derived from the sale of a licensees products that incorporate our IP are classified as royalty revenues. Royalty revenues are recognized during the quarter in which the sale of the product incorporating our IP occurs. Royalties are calculated either as a percentage of the revenues received by our licensees on sales of products incorporating our IP or on a per unit basis, as specified in the agreements with the licensees. Royalty revenues are recognized during the quarter in which we receive the actual sales data from our customers after the quarter ends and accounts for it as unbilled receivables. When we do not receive actual sales data from the customer prior to the finalization of our financial statements, royalty revenues are recognized based on our estimation of the customers sales during the quarter. We may engage a third party to perform royalty audits of our licensees, and if these audits indicate any over- or under-reported royalties, we account for the results when the audits are resolved. Contracts with customers generally contain an agreement to provide for training and post contract support, which consists of telephone or e-mail support, correction of errors (bug fixing) and unspecified updates and upgrades. Fees for post contract support, which takes place after delivery to the customer, are specified in the contract and are generally mandatory for the first year. After the mandatory period, the customer may extend the support agreement on similar terms, usually on an annual basis. We consider the post contract support performance obligation as a distinct performance obligation that is satisfied over time, and as such, we recognize revenue for post contract support on a straight-line basis over the period for which technical support is contractually agreed to be provided to the licensee, typically 12 months. Revenues from the sale of development systems and chips are recognized when control of the promised goods or services are transferred to the customers. When contracts involve a significant financing component, we adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of the time value of money if the timing of payments agreed to by the parties to the contract (either explicitly or implicitly) provide the customer with a significant benefit of financing, unless the financing period is under one year and only after the products or services were provided, as we elected to use the practical expedient under ASC 606. Deferred revenues, which represent a contract liability, include unearned amounts received under license agreements, unearned technical support and amounts paid by customers not yet recognized as revenues. We capitalize sales commission as costs of obtaining a contract when they are incremental and, if they are expected to be recovered, amortized in a manner consistent with the pattern of transfer of the good or service to which the asset relates. If the expected amortization period is one year or less, the commission fee is expensed when incurred. 40 Table of Contents Business Combinations and Valuation of Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets We allocate the fair value of purchase price consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase price consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from acquired customers, acquired technology, and trade names from a market participant perspective, useful lives, and discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable in accordance with ASC 350 Intangibles Goodwill and other (ASC 350). ASC 350 allows an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test. If the qualitative assessment does not result in a more likely than not indication of impairment, no further impairment testing is required. If an entity elects not to use this option, or if an entity determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then the entity prepares a quantitative analysis to determine whether the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, the entity recognizes an impairment of goodwill for the amount of this excess. For each of the three years for the period ended December 31, 2023, no impairment of goodwill has been identified. Acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We evaluate the recoverability of our intangible assets for possible impairment in accordance with ASC 360 whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by a comparison of the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds its fair market value. In 2022, we recorded an impairment charge of $3,556,000 in operating expenses with respect to Immervision technology acquired in August 2019, as we decided to cease the development of this product line. In 2022 we also recorded in cost of revenues an impairment charge of prepaid expenses as follows: (1) an impairment charge of $479,000 relating to an agreement to acquire certain NB-IoT technologies, and (2) an impairment charge of $1,479,000 relating to an agreement to purchase certain assets and services from Immervision. We have not recorded any impairment charge during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2021. In addition to the recoverability assessment, we routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives of our finite-lived intangible assets. If we reduce the estimated useful life assumption for any asset, the remaining unamortized balance would be amortized over the revised estimated useful life. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes mainly in Israel, France, the U.S. and Ireland. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. We recognize income taxes under the liability method. Tax benefits are recognized from uncertain tax positions only if we believe that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. We adjust these reserves when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit, the refinement of an estimate or changes in tax laws. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the effects of any reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for future tax consequences arising from differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities under GAAP and their respective tax bases, and for net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and record a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. To make this judgment, we make predictions of the amounts and category of taxable income from various sources and weigh all available positive and negative evidence about these possible sources of taxable income. 41 Table of Contents Accounting for tax positions requires judgments, including estimating reserves for potential uncertainties. We also assess our ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carry-forwards for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. While we believe the resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2022 and 2023 are appropriately accounted for, the ultimate outcome of such matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our consolidated financial statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2023 for further information regarding income taxes. We have filed or are in the process of filing local and foreign tax returns that are subject to audit by the respective tax authorities. The amount of income tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits by the tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. We believe that we adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcomes related to tax audits and settlement. However, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved, audits are closed or when statute of limitations on potential assessments expire. We are subject to taxation in the United States, as well as a number of foreign jurisdictions. In December 2017, the United States enacted U.S. tax reform. The legislation implements many U.S. domestic and international tax provisions. Some aspects of U.S. tax reform still remain unclear, and although additional clarifying guidance has been issued (by the Internal Revenue Services, and the U.S. Treasury Department), there are still some areas that may not be clarified for some time. Among the U.S. states there are varying degrees of conformity to the federal legislation. As a result, there may be further impact of the legislation on our future results of operations and financial condition. It is possible that U.S. tax reform, or interpretations under it, could change and could have an adverse effect on us, and such effect could be material. We have elected to account for global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) as a current-period expense when incurred. Legislation and clarifying guidance are expected to continue to be issued by the U.S. Treasury Department and various states in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on the value of our U.S. deferred tax assets, result in significant changes to currently computed income tax liabilities for past and current tax periods, and increase our future U.S. tax expense. Equity-Based Compensation We account for equity-based compensation in accordance with FASB ASC No. 718, Stock Compensation which requires the recognition of compensation expenses based on estimated fair values for all equity-based awards made to employees and non-employee directors. Equity-based compensation primarily includes restricted stock unit (RSUs), as well as options, stock appreciation right (SAR), performance-based stock units (PSUs) and employee stock purchase plan awards. We use the straight-line recognition method for awards subject to graded vesting based only on a service condition and the accelerated method for awards that are subject to performance or market conditions. The fair value of each RSU and PSU (excluding PSUs based on market condition awards) is the market value as determined by the closing price of the common stock on the grant date. We estimate the fair value of PSU based on market condition awards on the date of grant using the Monte Carlo simulation model. We estimate the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant using the Black & Scholes model. Credit Losses of Marketable Securities Marketable securities consist mainly of corporate bonds. We determine the appropriate classification of marketable securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. In accordance with FASB ASC No. 320, Investments Debt Securities, we classify marketable securities as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of marketable securities, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in financial income, net. The amortized cost of marketable securities is adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion of discount to maturity, both of which, together with interest, are included in financial income, net. We have classified all marketable securities as short-term, even though the stated maturity date may be one year or more beyond the current balance sheet date, because these securities are available to support current operations and we may sell these debt securities prior to their stated maturities . 42 Table of Contents We determine realized gains or losses on sale of marketable securities on a specific identification method and record such gains or losses as financial income, net. For each reporting period, we evaluate whether declines in fair value below the amortized cost are due to expected credit losses, as well as our ability and intention to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs, in accordance with ASC 326. Allowance for credit losses on available for sale debt securities are recognized as a charge in financial income on the consolidated statements of income, and any remaining unrealized losses, net of taxes, are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, credit losses were immaterial. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncement In June 2022, the FASB issued ASU No. 2022-03, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Fair Value Measurement of Equity Securities Subject to Contractual Sale Restrictions, which clarifies the guidance when measuring the fair value of an equity security subject to contractual restrictions that prohibit the sale of an equity security and introduces new disclosure requirements for equity securities subject to contractual sale restrictions that are measured at fair value in accordance with Topic 820. The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2023, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to result in a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures, which requires public entities to disclose information about their reportable segments significant expenses and other segment items on an interim and annual basis. Public entities with a single reportable segment are required to apply the disclosure requirements in ASU 2023-07, as well as all existing segment disclosures and reconciliation requirements in ASC 280 on an interim and annual basis. ASU 2023-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and for interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2023-07. In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures, which requires public entities, on an annual basis, to provide disclosure of specific categories in the rate reconciliation, as well as disclosure of income taxes paid disaggregated by jurisdiction. ASU 2023-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2025, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2023-09. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents line items from our consolidated statements of income (loss) as percentages of our total revenues for the periods indicated: 2021 2022 2023 Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss) Data: Revenues: Licensing and related revenue 56.2 % 62.4 % 59.1 % Royalties 43.8 % 37.6 % 40.9 % Total revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 9.1 % 12.5 % 12.0 % Gross profit 90.9 % 87.5 % 88.0 % Operating expenses: Research and development, net 60.7 % 58.3 % 74.6 % Sales and marketing 10.8 % 9.5 % 11.3 % General and administrative 11.2 % 11.8 % 15.3 % Amortization of intangible assets 2.0 % 1.7 % 0.6 % Impairment of assets 2.9 % Total operating expenses 84.7 % 84.2 % 101.8 % Operating income (loss) 6.2 % 3.3 % (13.8 )% Financial income, net 0.2 % 2.3 % 5.4 % Remeasurement of marketable equity securities 1.7 % (2.1 )% (0.0 )% Income (loss) before taxes on income 8.1 % 3.5 % (8.4 )% Taxes on income 6.0 % 15.0 % 10.5 % Net income (loss) from continuing operations 2.1 % (11.5 )% (18.9 )% Net income (loss) from discontinued operations (1.8 )% (7.7 )% 6.7 % Net income (loss) 0.3 % (19.2 )% (12.2 )% 43 Table of Contents Discussion and Analysis Below we provide information on the significant line items in our consolidated statements of income (loss) for each of the past three fiscal years, including the percentage changes year-on-year, as well as an analysis of the principal drivers of change in these line items from year-to-year. Revenues Total Revenues 2021 2022 2023 Total revenues (in millions) $ 113.8 $ 120.6 $ 97.4 Change year-on-year 5.9 % (19.2 )% For the full year 2023, we reported total revenue of $97.4 million, 19% lower than 2022, primarily due to a return to a more normal licensing environment following a couple of years in which we were able to capitalize on a surge in design activity driven by exceptional consumer end market demand resulting from post-COVID spending and the shift to work-from-home. In full year royalties, despite the slow start to the year, and the soft end markets throughout 2023, royalties grew sequentially each quarter throughout the year, to reach $39.8 million, down 12% year-over-year. We derive a significant amount of revenues from a limited number of customers. Sales to UNISOC represented 13%, 16% and 21% of our total revenues for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Generally, the identity of our other customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, two royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for 2023, and collectively represented 45% of our total royalty revenues for 2023. Two royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for 2022, and collectively represented 46% of our total royalty revenues for 2022. Three royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for 2021, and collectively represented 57% of our total royalty revenues for 2021. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. The loss of any significant customer could adversely affect our near-term future operating results. The following table sets forth use cases for Ceva technology portfolio as percentages of our total revenues in each of the periods set forth below: Year ended December 31, 2021 2022 2023 Connect (baseband for handset and other devices, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT) 77 % 78 % 82 % Sense & Infer (sensor fusion, audio, sound, imaging, vision and AI) 23 % 22 % 18 % 44 Table of Contents We expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues for 2024 from the above technologies. Licensing and related revenue 2021 2022 2023 Licensing and related revenue (in millions) $ 64.0 $ 75.2 $ 57.6 Change year-on-year 17.6 % 23.5 % Licensing and related revenue was $57.6 million, 23% down in 2023 as compared to 2022. We signed 53 licensing agreements across our extensive IP portfolio, down from 60 last year; 10 of those deals were with OEMs who are integrating our IPs into their end products. In terms of end markets, 29 of the deals target consumer, and 23 for IIoT, including 7 for automotive, and 1 for other markets. This deal breakdown serves as another indicator of our focus on the end markets with the largest licensing base and the greatest projected growth potential. In 2023, we experienced a decrease in licensing revenue attributed to a slowdown in new design activity due to various reasons, including lack of funding of semiconductor companies, in part due to the higher interest rate environment, as well as the end of a period of exceptional consumer end market demand related to COVID spending following the substantial completion of most companies shift to hybrid work environments. The increase in licensing and related revenues from 2021 to 2022 principally reflected the contribution of the Wi-Fi IP to our revenues, and from diversification of technologies, markets, new and recurring customers and overall strong semiconductor design cycle. Licensing and related revenue accounted for 59.1% of our total revenues for 2023, compared with 62.4% and 56.2% of our total revenues for 2022 and 2021, respectively. Royalty Revenues 2021 2022 2023 Royalty revenues (in millions) $ 49.9 $ 45.4 $ 39.9 Change year-on-year (9.0 )% (12.2 )% We generate royalty revenues from our customers who ship units of chips incorporating our technologies. Our royalty revenues represent what our customers shipped during any quarter, or our best estimates for such shipments. The royalty rate is based either on a certain percent of the chipset price or a fixed amount per chipset based on volume discounts. Royalty revenue was down in 2023 as compared to 2022 reflecting broad macroeconomic and consumer demand weakness and elevated inventory levels, especially in the first half of 2023. The decline is mainly attributable to mobile and 5G RAN related royalties, which combined to be down 22% year-over-year. On the positive side and in line with the strength of our connectivity products, royalty revenues related to our Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and cellular IoT business lines combined to grow 5% year-over-year, mainly due to higher royalty rate contribution from our new Wi-Fi 6 customers. In terms of end markets, consumer IoT was 41% of royalties, followed by mobile at 36% and the growing IIoT end markets at 23%. Looking ahead to 2024, we are excited by the royalty growth potential of our Wi-Fi 6 royalties, the continued momentum in our Bluetooth and cellular IoT customer base across consumer and industrial markets and the expected initial ramp of automotive ADAS royalties in the second half of the year. Our total unit shipments were 1.6 billion in 2023, down slightly from 1.7 billion in 2022, and which equates to approximately 50 Ceva-powered devices sold every second in 2023. Annual mobile modem shipments were down 13% year-over-year to 286 million units, reflecting the soft smartphone market in 2023, particularly at the start of the year. Annual Consumer IoT related shipments were 1.25 billion units, down just 4% year-over-year. Annual IIoT related shipments were 84 million units, up 17% year over year. 45 Table of Contents Cellular IoT and Audio AI DSP shipments both experienced strong growth in 2023, up 64% and 56%, respectively from 2022. In terms of royalty contribution highlights, Cellular IoT royalty revenues were an all-time record high, up 47% year-over-year, Audio AI DSP royalty revenues were up 111% year-over-year and Wi-Fi royalty revenues were up 40% year-over-year. Royalty revenue was down in 2022 as compared to 2021 reflecting broad macroeconomic and consumer weakness and elevated inventory levels, especially in the second half of 2022. The largest decline was in our handset baseband royalties, which were down 24% year-over-year, primarily due to the continued ramp down by Intel based royalties post their divestment from the modem business. Base station and IoT category, achieved record royalty revenues generated by a record 1.4 billion devices. Bluetooth royalties grew 11% year-over-year, generated from a record 1 billion unit shipments. Base station RAN royalties also grew, up 14% year-over-year, while lower shipments and royalties from PCs, robot vacuum cleaners, cameras and other consumer related technologies affected many of our customers. Total shipments in 2023 decreased 4% year-over-year to 1.62 billion units, down from 1.70 billion in 2022. Total shipment volume in 2021 was 1.65 billion. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 58% of our total royalty revenues for 2023, compared to 64% of our total royalty revenues for 2022 and 68% of our total royalty revenues for 2021. Geographic Revenue Analysis 2021 2022 2023 (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 17.8 15.7 % $ 14.2 11.8 % $ 9.6 9.8 % Europe, Middle East (EME) $ 6.9 6.0 % $ 9.9 8.2 % $ 12.2 12.5 % Asia Pacific (APAC) (1) $ 89.1 78.3 % $ 96.5 80.0 % $ 75.7 77.7 % (1) China $ 67.5 59.3 % $ 75.7 62.8 % $ 57.5 59.0 % A majority of our revenues during the past three years have originated in the APAC region, with China representing the largest revenue share of countries in the APAC region. The decrease in revenues in absolute dollars in APAC from 2022 to 2023 was partially attributed to the slowdown in the start of new design activity. The increase in revenues in absolute dollars in APAC from 2021 to 2022 was partially attributed to the strong design activity and new WiFi 6 product refreshment as a key technology add-on to many consumer related devices, replacing or in many cases on top of Bluetooth technologies. The decrease in revenues in absolute dollars in the United States from 2022 to 2023 was mainly attributed to a large, non-recurring licensing deal in our BlueBud platform, as well as the continued decrease in Intel based royalties post their divestment from the modem business. Moreover, we witnessed lower royalties from our sensor fusion empowered chips. The decrease in revenues in absolute dollars in the United States from 2021 to 2022 was mainly attributed to less Intel based royalties post their divestment from the modem business, partially offset by more sensor fusion empowered chip sales. The increase in revenues in absolute dollars and percentage in the EME region from 2022 to 2023 is primarily due to a significant new Wi-Fi / Bluetooth combo deal with a leading platform OEM in the electronics maker community whose devices are widely used in education and prototyping. The increase in revenues in absolute dollars and percentage in the EME region from 2021 to 2022 primarily reflected 5G base station technology license from an existing EME customer. 46 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues 2021 2022 2023 Cost of revenues (in millions) $ 10.4 $ 15.1 $ 11.6 Change year-on-year 45.8 % (23.0 )% Cost of revenues accounted for 12.0% of our total revenues for 2023, compared to 12.5% of our total revenues for 2022 and 9.1% of our total revenues for 2021. The absolute dollar decreases in cost of revenues for 2023 as compared to 2022 principally reflected impairment charges, incurred in 2022, of prepaid assets with respect to (1) Immervision-related assets and services, and (2) certain non-performing assets related to NB-IoT technology, as well as lower customization work for our licensees. The absolute dollar increases in cost of revenues for 2022 as compared to 2021 principally reflected impairment charges of prepaid assets with respect to (1) Immervision-related assets and services and (2) certain non-performing assets related to NB-IoT technology, as well as higher customization work for our licensees. Cost of revenues includes labor-related costs and, where applicable, costs related to overhead, subcontractors, materials, travel, royalty expenses payments to the Israeli Innovation Authority of the Ministry of Economy and Industry in Israel (the IIA), amortization of acquired assets and non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Non-cash equity-based compensation expenses included in cost of revenues for the years 2023, 2022 and 2021 were $826,000, $687,000, and $513,000, respectively. Royalty expenses relate to royalties payable to the IIA that amount to 3%-3.5% of the actual sales of certain of our products, the development of which previously included grants from the IIA. The obligation to pay these royalties is contingent on actual sales of these products. Amortization of acquired assets related to the purchase of a license of NB-IoT technologies in the first quarter of 2018, to a strategic investment in Immervision in the third quarter of 2019, and to certain intangible assets associated with the VisiSonics acquisition in the second quarter of 2023. Our amortization charges were $0.4 million, $0.6 million and $0.7 million for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In 2022 we recorded impairment charges of $2.0 relating to discontinued Immervision technology and non-performing assets of certain NB-IoT technology. Operating Expenses 2021 2022 2023 (in millions) Research and development, net $ 69.1 $ 70.3 $ 72.7 Sales and marketing $ 12.2 $ 11.5 $ 11.0 General and administration $ 12.8 $ 14.2 $ 14.9 Amortization of intangible assets $ 2.3 $ 2.0 $ 0.6 Impairment of assets $ $ 3.6 $ Total operating expenses $ 96.4 $ 101.6 $ 99.2 Change year-on-year 5.3 % (2.3 )% The decrease in total operating expenses for 2023 as compared to 2022 principally reflected: (1) an impairment charge of $3.6 million recorded in the third quarter of 2022 with respect to Immervision technology acquired in August 2019, as we decided to cease the development of this product line; (2) lower amortization of intangible assets, mainly related to Immervision; and (3) lower salary and employee-related costs, mainly associated with lower employee-related performance costs, partially offset with lower research grants received, mainly from the IIA, and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. The increase in total operating expenses for 2022 as compared to 2021 principally reflected (1) an impairment charge of $3.6 million with respect to Immervision technology acquired in August 2019, as we decided to cease the development of this product line, (2) higher salary and employee-related costs, and (3) higher outsourcing personal and services costs, partially offset with higher research grants received, mainly from the IIA. 47 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses, Net 2021 2022 2023 Research and development expenses, net (in millions) $ 69.1 $ 70.3 $ 72.7 Change year-on-year 1.8 % 3.4 % The net increase in research and development expenses for 2023 as compared to 2022 principally reflected lower research grants received, mainly from the IIA, lower customization work for our licensees and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by lower salaries and employee-related costs mainly associated with lower employee-related performance costs. The net increase in research and development expenses for 2022 as compared to 2021 principally reflected higher outsourcing personal and services costs and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by higher research grants received, mainly from the IIA, and higher customization work for our licensees. The average number of research and development personnel in 2023 was 330, compared to 325 in 2022 and 310 in 2021. The number of research and development personnel was 322 at December 31, 2023 as compared to 328 in 2022 and 311 in 2021. We implemented cost control measures and in 2024 we plan to keep our 2023 overall expense (cost of revenues and operating expenses) levels; therefore, our overall COGS expense is expected to decrease by approximately $1.5 million and operating expenses, is expected to increase by approximately $2.0 million, mainly in research and development than may increase by approximately $1.5 million. Research and development expenses, net of related government grants and French research tax benefits applicable to CIR, were 74.6% of our total revenues for 2023, as compared with 58.3% for 2022 and 60.7% for 2021. We recorded research grants under funding programs of $1,668,000 in 2023, compared with $4,850,000 in 2022 and $3,595,000 in 2021. We recorded UK tax credits and CIR benefits of $2,641,000, $2,316,000 and $2,547,000 for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and associated costs, facilities expenses associated with research and development activities, project-related expenses connected with the development of our intellectual property which are expensed as incurred, and non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Non-cash equity-based compensation expenses included in research and development expenses, net for the years 2023, 2022 and 2021 were $9,133,000, $8,259,000 and $7,187,000, respectively. Research and development expenses are net of related government research grants, UK tax credits and research tax benefits applicable to CIR. We view research and development as a principal strategic investment and have continued our commitment to invest heavily in this area, which represents the largest of our ongoing operating expenses. We will need to continue to invest in research and development and such expenses may increase in the future to keep pace with new trends in our industry. Sales and Marketing Expenses 2021 2022 2023 Sales and marketing expenses (in millions) $ 12.2 $ 11.5 $ 11.0 Change year-on-year (6.2 )% (3.8 )% The decrease in sales and marketing expenses for 2023 as compared to 2022 principally reflected lower salary and employee related costs, mainly associated with a one-time separation charge recorded in 2022 as a result of the departure of our former executive vice president of worldwide sales. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses for 2022 as compared to 2021 principally reflected lower commission expenses. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 11.3% for 2023, as compared with 9.5% for 2022 and 10.7% for 2021. The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 29 in 2023, as compared with 36 in both 2022 and 2021. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, commissions, travel and other costs associated with sales and marketing activities, as well as advertising, trade show participation, public relations and other marketing costs and non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Non-cash equity-based compensation expenses included in sales and marketing expenses for the years 2023, 2022 and 2021 were $1,776,000, $1,503,000 and $1,608,000, respectively. 48 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses 2021 2022 2023 General and administrative expenses (in millions) $ 12.8 $ 14.2 $ 14.9 Change year-on-year 10.9 % 5.1 % The increase in general and administrative expenses for 2023 as compared to 2022 principally reflected higher professional services cost and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset with lower salaries and related costs. The increase in general and administrative expenses for 2022 as compared to 2021 principally reflected higher salaries and related costs. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 15.3% for 2023, as compared with 11.8% for 2022 and 11.2% for 2021. The total number of general and administrative personnel was 45 in 2023, as compared with 46 in 2022 and 50 in 2021. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of fees for directors, salaries for management and administrative employees, accounting and legal fees, expenses related to investor relations and facilities expenses associated with general and administrative activities, allowance for credit losses and non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Non-cash equity-based compensation expenses included in general and administrative expenses for the years 2023, 2022 and 2021 were $3,795,000, $2,888,000 and $3,291,000, respectively. Amortization of Intangible Assets Our amortization charges were $0.6 million, $2.0 million and $2.3 million for 2023, 2022 and 2021 respectively. The amortization charges in 2023 were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs and VisiSonics business. The amortization charges in 2022 and 2021 were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs and the strategic investment in Immervision. As of December 31, 2023, the net amount of intangible assets associated with the acquisitions was $1.7 million. Impairment of Assets In 2022, we recorded an impairment charge of $3.6 million with respect to Immervision technology acquired in August 2019, as we decided to cease the development of this product line. Financial Income, net 2021 2022 2023 (in millions) Financial income, net $ 0.20 $ 2.81 $ 5.26 of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 1.47 $ 2.74 $ 4.57 Foreign exchange gain (loss) $ (1.27 ) $ 0.07 $ 0.69 Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discount (premium) on marketable securities and foreign exchange movements. The increase in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, for 2023 as compared to 2022 reflected higher yields, offset with lower combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held. The increase in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, for 2022 as compared to 2021 reflected higher yields, offset with lower combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held. We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. However, our Euro cash balances increase significantly on a quarterly basis beyond our Euro liabilities, mainly from the French research tax benefits applicable to CIR, which is generally refunded every three years. This has resulted in a foreign exchange gain of $0.69 million, a foreign exchange gain of $0.07 million and a foreign exchange loss of $1.27 million (due to the devaluation of our Euro cash balances as the U.S. dollar strengthened significantly during this period as compared to the Euro) for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 49 Table of Contents Remeasurement of marketable equity securities We recorded a loss of $0.0 million, a loss of $2.5 million, and a gain of $2.0 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, related to remeasurement of marketable equity securities. Over time, other income (expense), net, may be affected by market dynamics and other factors. Equity values generally change daily for marketable equity securities and upon the occurrence of observable price changes or upon impairment of marketable equity securities. In addition, volatility in the global economic climate and financial markets could result in a significant change in the value of our investments. Provision for Income Taxes During the years 2023, 2022 and 2021, we recorded tax expenses of $10.2 million, $18.1 million and $6.8 million, respectively. The decrease in provision for income taxes in 2023 as compared to 2022 principally reflected the impact of a charge to record a valuation allowance in 2022 due to a change in the estimation for taxable income for future years of our Israeli operations (as further described below), offset with a charge to our deferred tax assets in the US primarily related to a reduction of estimated forecasted GILTI inclusions, and additional tax charges as a result of the completion of a tax audit in a certain foreign tax jurisdiction. The increase in provision for income taxes in 2022 as compared to 2021 principally reflected the impact of a charge to record a valuation allowance in 2022 due to a change in the estimation for taxable income for future years of our Israeli operations (as further described below), offset with a reduced tax rate of 10% applied to specific revenues in our French subsidiary in 2022 (under the French IP Box regime, as compared to a corporate tax rate of 26.5% in 2021). In 2022, based on the weight of available positive and negative evidence, we recorded a valuation allowance for certain deferred tax assets (including withholding tax assets) of our Israeli subsidiary due to uncertainty regarding its future taxable income. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, the key assumptions used to determine positive and negative evidence included the Companys cumulative taxable loss for the past three years, current trends related to actual taxable earnings or losses, and expected future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, as well as projections for future annual results. Accordingly, we recorded a charge of $15.6 million in 2022 as a reserve against our deferred tax assets. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. Additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. A number of factors influence our effective tax rate, including changes in tax laws and treaties as well as the interpretation of existing laws and rules. Federal, state, and local governments and administrative bodies within the United States, and other foreign jurisdictions have implemented, or are considering, a variety of broad tax, trade, and other regulatory reforms that may impact us. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the U.S. Tax Reform) enacted on December 22, 2017 resulted in changes in our corporate tax rate, our deferred income taxes, and the taxation of foreign earnings. It is not currently possible to accurately determine the potential comprehensive impact of these or future changes, but these changes could have a material impact on our business and financial condition. We have significant operations in Israel and operations in France and the Republic of Ireland. A substantial portion of our taxable income is generated in Israel and France, as well as potentially in the U.S. due to GILTI and the requirement to capitalize R&D expenditures under IRC Section 174 over 5 years if sourced from the U.S. and over 15 years if sourced internationally. Although our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries, and, from 2022 onward, our French subsidiary, are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates, the tax rates in these jurisdictions could nevertheless result in a substantial increase as a result of withholding tax expenses with respect to which we are unable to obtain a refund from the relevant tax authorities. Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. 50 Table of Contents Our French subsidiary is now entitled to a new tax benefit of 10% applied to specific revenues under the French IP Box regime. The French IP Box regime applies to net income derived from the licensing, sublicensing or sale of several IP rights such as patents and copyrighted software, including royalty revenues. This new elective regime requires a direct link between the income benefiting from the preferential treatment and the R&D expenditures incurred and contributing to that income. Qualifying income may be taxed at a favorable 10% CIT rate (plus social surtax, hence 10.3% in total). In 2017, the French government passed a series of tax reforms allowing for a phased reduction in the corporate tax rate. In accordance with the tax reforms, our French subsidiary qualified in 2018 for a corporate tax rate of 28% for taxable profit up to 500,000 (approximately $533,745) and the standard rate of 33.33% for taxable profit above 500,000 (approximately $533,745). In 2019, the standard corporate income tax rate was reduced to 31%, with the first 500,000 (approximately $533,745) of taxable profit still being subject to the reduced 28% rate. In 2020, a corporate income tax rate of 28% has become the new standard rate for all taxable profits. In 2021, the corporate income tax rate was reduced to 26.5%. From 2022 onward, the standard corporate income tax rate was further reduced to 25%. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits as a technological enterprise. In December 2016, the Economic Efficiency Law (Legislative Amendments for Applying the Economic Policy for the 2017 and 2018 Budget Years), 2016, which includes the Amendment to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (Amendment 73) (the Amendment), was published. The Amendment, among other things, prescribes special tax tracks for technological enterprises, which are subject to rules that were issued by the Minister of Finance in April 2017. The new tax track under the Amendment, which is applicable to our Israeli subsidiary, is the Technological Preferred Enterprise. Technological Preferred Enterprise is an enterprise for which total consolidated revenues of its parent company and all subsidiaries are less than 10 billion New Israeli Shekel (NIS). A Technological Preferred Enterprise, as defined in the Amendment, that is located in the center of Israel (where our Israeli subsidiary is currently located), is taxed at a rate of 12% on profits deriving from intellectual property. Any dividends distributed to foreign companies, as defined in the Amendment, deriving from income from technological enterprises will be taxed at a rate of 4%. We are applying the Technological Preferred Enterprise tax track for our Israeli subsidiary from tax year 2020 and onwards. To maintain our Israeli subsidiarys eligibility for the above tax benefits, it must continue to meet certain conditions under the Investment Law. Should our Israeli subsidiary fail to meet such conditions in the future, these benefits would be cancelled and it would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the standard corporate rate and could be required to refund tax benefits already received, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. For more information about our provision for income taxes, see Note 14 to the attached Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement for the year ended December 31, 2023. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately $23.3 million in cash and cash equivalents, $10.5 million in short term bank deposits, $132.7 million in marketable securities, and $0.0 million in long term bank deposits totaling $166.5 million, as compared to $146.5 million at December 31, 2022. The increase in 2023 as compared to 2022 principally reflected approximately $30.0 million cash received following the sale of Intrinsix, exercise of stock-based awards of approximately $3.4 million, and unrealized investment gain on marketable securities of approximately $3.1 million, partially offset by cash used in operating activities, $3.6 million cash used for the acquisition of the VisiSonics business and funds used to repurchase 278,799 shares of common stock for an aggregate consideration of approximately $6.2 million. Out of total cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities of $166.5 million at year end 2023, $136.4 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate these funds. The determination of the amount of additional taxes related to the repatriation of these earnings is not practicable, as it may vary based on various factors such as the location of the cash and the effect of regulation in the various jurisdictions from which the cash would be repatriated. Moving off-shore cash to our U.S. entity would result in significant additional tax expenses. 51 Table of Contents During 2023, we invested $42.0 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 36 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $28.8 million. During 2022, we invested $63.9 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 45 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $52.3 million. During 2021, we invested $40.7 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 57 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $56.1 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the consolidated statements of income (loss). The amount of credit losses recorded for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, was immaterial. For more information about our marketable securities, see Notes 1 and 3 to the attached Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement for the year ended December 31, 2023. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities in 2023 was $6.3 million and consisted of a net loss of $11.9 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $8.8 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $3.2 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $4.9 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets (including $1.1 million from discontinued operations), $16.2 million of equity-based compensation expenses (including $0.7 million from discontinued operations), and $11.6 million of gain on sale of Intrinsix. The decrease in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $4.9 million, a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $3.7 million, and a decrease in trade payables of $0.8 million, partially offset by a decrease in deferred taxes, net of $6.7 million. Cash provided by operating activities in 2022 was $6.9 million and consisted of a net loss of $23.2 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $28.2 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $1.9 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $7.6 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets (including $2.2 million from discontinued operations), $14.5 million of equity-based compensation expenses (including $1.2 million from discontinued operations), $2.5 million of remeasurement of marketable equity securities, and $3.6 million of impairment of intangible assets with respect to Immervision technology acquired in August 2019, as we decided to cease the development of this product line. The increase in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in deferred taxes, net of $7.8 million (primarily reflect the impact of a charge to record a valuation allowance in 2022), an increase in trade payable of $0.5 million, an increase in accrued payroll and related benefits of $1.0 million, and an increase in accrued expenses and other payables, including income taxes payable, of $2.5 million, partially offset by an increase of trade receivables of $3.8 million, an increase of prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.1 million, and a decrease in deferred revenues of $5.5 million. Cash provided by operating activities in 2021 was $25.8 million and consisted of a net income of $0.4 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $19.6 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.8 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $7.0 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets (including $1.3 million from discontinued operations), and $13.1 million of equity-based compensation expenses (including $0.5 million from discontinued operations). The increase in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in trade receivables of $5.8 million, a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.6 million, and an increase in deferred revenues of $5.1 million, partially offset by an increase in deferred taxes, net of $6.3 million (mainly due to an increase in withholding tax assets which can be utilized in future years), a decrease in accrued expenses and other payables of $1.7 million, and a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $0.9 million. 52 Table of Contents Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent funding from the IIA and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities in 2023 was $10.8 million, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $15.1 million in 2022 and net cash used in investing activities of $16.7 million in 2021. We had a cash outflow of $40.0 million with respect to investments in marketable securities and a cash inflow of $22.8 million with respect to maturity, and sale, of marketable securities during 2023. Included in the cash inflow during 2023 was net proceeds of $4.0 million from bank deposits. We had a cash outflow of $49.9 million with respect to investments in marketable securities and a cash inflow of $21.4 million with respect to maturity, and sale, of marketable securities during 2022. Included in the cash inflow during 2022 was net proceeds of $16.9 million from bank deposits. We had a cash outflow of $39.2 million with respect to investments in marketable securities and a cash inflow of $36.1 million with respect to maturity, and sale, of marketable securities during 2021. Included in the cash inflow during 2021 was net proceeds of $18.5 million from bank deposits. Capital equipment purchases of computer hardware and software used in engineering development, furniture and fixtures amounted to approximately $2.9 million in 2023, $3.5 million in 2022 and $2.2 million in 2021. In 2023, we had a cash inflow of $30.6 million following the sale of Intrinsix. We had a cash outflow of $3.6 million in 2023 for the acquisition of VisiSonics. We had a cash outflow, net of cash acquired, of $29.9 million in 2021 for the acquisition of Intrinsix. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in 2023 was $2.8 million, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $3.3 million in 2022 and net cash provided by financing activities of $3.2 million in 2021. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock which was further extended collectively by an additional 6,400,000 shares in 2010, 2013, 2014, 2018 and 2020. In November 2023, our board of directors authorized the repurchase by us of an additional 700,000 shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. In 2023, we repurchased 278,799 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program at an average purchase price of $22.11 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $6.2 million. In 2022, we repurchased 218,809 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program at an average purchase price of $31.01 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $6.8 million. In 2021, we did not repurchase any shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2023, we had 700,000 shares available for repurchase. In 2023, 2022 and 2021, we received $3.4 million, $3.5 million and $3.2 million, respectively, from the exercise of stock-based awards. We believe that our cash and cash equivalent, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurance, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk FactorsWe may seek to expand our business in ways that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. for more detailed information. 53 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The table below presents the principal categories of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2023: Payments Due by Period ($ in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years Operating Lease Obligations Leasehold properties 1,289 593 661 35 Purchase Obligations design tools 6,481 3,297 3,184 Other purchase Obligations 1,230 1,230 Total 9,000 5,120 3,845 35 Operating leasehold obligations principally relate to our offices in Israel, Ireland, United Kingdom, France, China, Japan, Serbia and the United States. Purchase obligations relate to license agreements entered into for maintenance of design tools. Other purchase obligations consist of capital and operating purchase order commitments. Other than set forth in the table above, we have no long-term debt or capital lease obligations. At December 31, 2023, our income tax payable, net of withholding tax credits, included $462,000 related to uncertain tax positions. Due to uncertainties in the timing of the completion of tax audits, the timing of the resolution of these positions is uncertain and we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments. As a result, this amount is not included in the above table. In addition, at December 31, 2023, the amount of accrued severance pay was $7,524,000. Severance pay relates to accrued severance obligations to our Israeli employees as required under Israeli labor laws. These obligations are payable only upon termination, retirement or death of the respective employee. Of this amount, $454,000 is unfunded.