Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. Moreover, t he full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve as of the date of this report. As such, it is uncertain as to the full magnitude that the pand emic will have on our financial condition, liquidity, and future results of operations. Management is actively monito ring the global situation on the companys financial condition, liquidity, operations, suppliers, industry, and workforce. Given the continual evolution of the COVID-19 pandemic and the global responses to curb its spread, we are not able to estimate the full effect of the COVID-19 outbreak on the companys results of operations, financial condition or liquidity for fiscal year 2020. The following discussions are subject to the future effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of CEVA, Inc. and its subsidiaries. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Headquartered in Mountain View, California, CEVA is the leading licensor of wireless connectivity and smart sensing technologies. We offer a combination of processors and software as licensable Intellectual Property (IP) platforms for a range of applications, including cellular, short-range wireless connectivity, AI, computer vision, voice, audio and sensor fusion. These IP platforms are licensed to customers who embed them into their system-on-chip (SoC) and microcontroller designs to create power-efficient, intelligent and connected devices. Our customers include many of the worlds leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies targeting a wide variety of IoT end markets, including mobile, PC, consumer, automotive, robotics, industrial and medical devices. Our ultra-low-power signal processing IPs are enabled by our own digital signal processors (DSP) or by fixed hardware and are deployed in devices for smart sensing and connectivity workloads. Our smart sensing portfolio includes advanced technologies for cameras, microphones and inertial measurement unit (IMU). Our camera platforms incorporate DSPs and software technologies for AI, computer vision and imaging. Our microphone technologies incorporate DSPs and software technologies for noise cancellation, echo cancellation and voice recognition. Our IMU technologies include ARM-based software supporting sensor processing of accelerometers, gyroscopes, magnetometers, optical flow and time-of-flight (ToF), and sensor fusion for IMU and environmental sensor-enabled devices. Our connectivity portfolio includes LTE and 5G mobile broadband platforms for handsets and base station RAN, NB-IoT for low bit rate cellular and Bluetooth and Wi-Fi technologies for wireless IoT. We believe that our licensing business is robust with a diverse customer base and a myriad of target markets. Our state-of-the-art technology has shipped in more than 11 billion chips to date for a wide range of end markets. Every second, thirty devices sold worldwide are powered by CEVA. We believe the adoption of our wireless connectivity and smart sensing products beyond our incumbency in the handset baseband market continues to progress. As a testament to this trend, during the second quarter of 2020, we concluded eight licensing deals, all of which are for base station and IoT applications. We continue to experience good demand for our products and expand our market reach into new areas. In the second quarter of 2020, we concluded an agreement with a leading automotive semiconductor for an automotive powertrain application. We also concluded two agreements for a combination of our Bluetooth and audio technologies targeting true wireless stereo earbuds. These agreements are indicative of our ability to increasingly cross-sell multiple technologies from our portfolio to customers where both wireless connectivity and smart sensing are required for their product designs. We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: CEVA is an incumbent player in the largest space of the semiconductor industry mobile handsets. Our customers use our technologies for baseband and voice processing. Our key customers currently have a strong foothold in the market, in particular for premium-tier and low-tier LTE smartphones and feature phones. The royalty we derive from premium-tier smartphones is higher on average than that of mid and low-tier smartphones due to more DSP content that bears a higher royalty average selling price (ASP). Looking ahead, we believe our PentaG platform for 5G handsets and 5G IoT endpoints is the most comprehensive baseband processor IP in the industry today and provides newcomers and incumbents with low entry barrier solution to address the needs for power 5G processing for smartphones, fixed wireless and a range of connected devices such robots, cars, smart cities and other industrial applications. 25 Our specialization and technological edge in signal processing platforms for 5G base station RAN, including Remote Radio Units (RRU) and Base Band Units (BBU), put us in a strong position to capitalize on the growing 5G RAN across its new form factors such as V-RAN, D-RAN, C-RAN and O-RAN, as well address mass wireless backhaul. Our broad Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT IPs allow us to expand further into IoT applications and substantially increase our overall addressable market and value-add. Our addressable market size for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT is expected to be more than 9 billion devices annually by 2022 based on ABI Research and Ericsson Mobility Reports. The growing market potential for voice assisted devices, as voice is becoming a primary user interface for IoT applications, including handsets, True Wireless Stereo (TWS) earbuds and AR &VR headsets, smart TV, smart home and consumer devices, offers an additional growth segment for us. To better address this market, we introduced our WhisPro speech recognition technology and ClearVox voice input software that are offered in conjunction with our audio/voice DSPs. In addition, we also introduced our SensLinQ framework that enables smooth integration of audio, Bluetooth and sensors. SensLinQ is a strong asset to address applications like TWS that need all these components. These highly-integrated platforms, plus our proven track record in audio/voice processing and connectivity with more than 7 billion audio chips shipped to date, put us in a strong position to power audio and voice roadmaps across this new range of addressable end markets. Our SensPro DSP architecture is the worlds first high performance sensor processor specifically for multi-sensory processing and provides highly compelling offerings for any camera-enabled device such as smartphones, automotive safety (ADAS), autonomous driving (AD), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), drones, and signage. Per research from Yole Dveloppement, camera-enabled devices incorporating computer vision and AI are expected to exceed 1 billion units by 2022. We have already signed more than fifty licensing agreements for our imaging and vision DSPs across those markets, where our customers can add camera-related enhancements such as smarter autofocus, better picture using super resolution algorithms, and better image capture in low-light environments. Other customers can add video analytics support to enable new services like augmented reality, gesture recognition and advanced safety capabilities in cars. This transformation in vision processing and neural net software are opportunities for us to expand our footprint and content in smartphones, drones, consumer cameras, surveillance, automotive ADAS and industrial IoT applications. We signed our first customer during the second quarter for this new processor that is targeting an automotive electric powertrain application. Neural networks are increasingly being deployed in a wide range of camera-based devices in order to make these devices smarter. To address this significant and lucrative opportunity, we introduced NeuPro-S - a second-generation family of AI processors for deep learning at the edge. These self-contained vision/AI processors bring the power of deep learning to the device, without relying on connectivity to the cloud. We believe this market opportunity for AI at the edge is on top of our existing product lines and represents new licensing and royalty drivers for the company in the coming years. The role of sensors and their proliferation in almost every electronics device in order to make such devices contextually aware is a new area we are addressing. To this effect, we recently introduced a new DSP/AI architecture dedicated to processing and fusing the data generated by multiple sensors, including camera, Radar, LiDAR, Time-of-Flight (ToF), microphones and IMU. Our Hillcrest Labs sensor fusion business unit allows us to address an important technology for smart sensing, in addition to our existing portfolio for camera-based computer vision and AI processing, and microphone-based sound processing. MEMS-based inertial and environmental sensors are used in an increasing number of devices, including robotics, smartphones, laptops, tablets, TWS earbuds, headsets, remote controls and many other consumer and industrial devices. Hillcrest Labs innovative and proven MotionEngine software supports a broad range of merchant sensor chips and is licensed to OEMs and semiconductor companies that can run the software on CEVA DSPs or a variety of RISC CPUs. The MotionEngine software expands and complements CEVAs smart sensing technology. Hillcrest Labs technology has already shipped in more than 100 million devices, indicative of its market traction and excellence. Along with our SensPro sensor fusion processors, our licensees can now benefit from our capabilities as a complete, one-stop-shop for processing all classes and types of sensors. 26 As a result of our diversification strategy beyond baseband for handsets and our progress in addressing those new markets under the base station and IoT umbrella, we expect a noticeable growth in royalty revenues derived from base station and IoT applications over the next few years, which will be comprised of a range of different products at different royalty ASPs, spanning from high volume Bluetooth to high value sensor fusion and base station RAN. The royalty ASP of our other products will be in between the two ranges. COVID-19 An outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus, COVID-19, occurred in China in December 2019 and has spread globally. The Center for Disease Control (CDC) and World Health Organization (WHO) have recognized this outbreak as a pandemic, which has caused shutdowns to businesses and cities worldwide while disrupting supply chains, business operations, travel, consumer confidence and business sentiment. In March, in compliance with global social distancing and lockdown regulations aimed to slow the spread of COVID-19, we smoothly moved most of our employees worldwide to a work-from-home model. We are following guidelines established by the CDC and WHO and orders issued by applicable governments where we operate. We have taken a number of precautionary health and safety measures to safeguard our employees while maintaining business continuity. We are monitoring and assessing orders issued by applicable governments to ensure compliance with evolving COVID-19 guidelines. Throughout the COVID-19 outbreak, we have continued operations. We are encouraged by the persistent design activities of our customers and interests in our products. We are further encouraged by the indicators we have noted in recent customer reports relating to the base station and IoT product line. We are focused on continuing to expand our business to capitalize on the momentum we gained last year. During the first two quarters of 2020, the world encountered new trends and different seasonality than what we have encountered in prior years. Some consumer electronics products sold well and some new technologies were widely adopted due to social distancing and shelter-in-place restrictions. Nonetheless, prolonged measures to contain the spread of coronavirus poses uncertainty for economic activities, in particular in emerging markets where our primary exposure is in low tier handsets. While the impact from COVID-19 on our financial results for the second quarter and first half of 2020 was relatively insignificant as set forth in the below section discussing the results of operations for the second quarter and first half of 2020, we are currently unable to determine or predict the nature, duration or scope of the overall impact the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for the reminder of the year. As of the date of this filing, significant uncertainty exists concerning the magnitude of the impact and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. While we are confident about our licensing pipeline, we may face some near-term softness, mainly related to a shortfall in consumer spending and its impact on demand for consumer electronic products. As a result, the nature of our royalty revenue for 2020 is less certain due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In light of the uncertain and rapidly evolving situation relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken a number of precautionary measures to manage our resources conservatively to mitigate the adverse impact of the pandemic. We will continue to closely monitor our exposure levels and align them to the dynamics we will experience in the coming months. We will assess our business during the crisis to make strategic decisions for our business in the best interests of stockholders. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $23.6 million and $47.2 million for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, representing an increase of 28% and 34%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2019. For the second quarter and first half of 2020, the increase was due to both higher licensing and related revenues and higher royalty revenues in comparison to the corresponding periods in 2019. Five largest customers accounted for 61% and 48% of our total revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to 55% and 50% for the comparable periods in 2019. Two customers accounted for 20% and 18% of our total revenues for the second quarter of 2020, as compared to two customers that accounted for 14% and 17% of our total revenues for the second quarter of 2019. Two customers accounted for 18% and 11% of our total revenues for the first half of 2020, as compared to two customers that accounted for 17% and 15% of our total revenues for the first half of 2019. Generally, the identity of our other customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, one royalty paying customer represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the second quarter of 2020, and three customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the first half of 2020, and collectively represented 47% and 67% of our total royalty revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively. Three royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for both the second quarter and first half of 2019, and collectively represented 76% and 73% of our total royalty revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. 27 The following table sets forth the products and services as percentages of our total revenues for each of the periods set forth below: First Half 2020 First Half 2019 Second Quarter 2020 Second Quarter 2019 Connectivity products 81 % 77 % 85 % 82 % Smart sensing products 19 % 23 % 15 % 18 % Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $13.5 million and $28.0 million for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, representing an increase of 25% and 28%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2019. The increase in licensing and related revenues for both the second quarter and first half of 2020 mainly reflected higher revenues from our connectivity products associated mainly with 5G networks, base station and Bluetooth technologies, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from our smart sensing products and technologies. Eight license agreements were concluded during the second quarter of 2020, of which five were for connectivity and three were for smart sensing. One of the eight deals was with a first time customer. Target applications of our customers include automotive powertrain, a new growth opportunity for us in the automotive space, wearables, TWS earbuds, and range of IoT devices. Our licensing business in the first half of the year was robust given our broad technology portfolio for 5G networks and IoT, which enabled us to consistently grow our licensee base and expand our market reach into new lucrative areas despite the uncertainty brought about by COVID-19. Licensing and related revenues accounted for 57% and 59% of our total revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to 59% and 62% for the comparable periods of 2019. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $10.1 million and $19.2 million for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, representing an increase of 33% and 42%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2019. Royalty revenues accounted for 43% and 41% of our total revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to 41% and 38% for the comparable periods of 2019. The increase in royalty revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2020 reflects higher revenues from our handset baseband products, especially due to solid demand for the new low-cost smartphone from our U.S.-based customer, and increased demand in certain products in our base station and IoT product line (with the highest contribution from our sensor fusion business, as well as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi technologies). Our customers reported sales of 231 million and 492 million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, an increase of 6% and 25%, respectively, from the corresponding periods in 2019 for actual shipments reported. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 76% and 77% of our total royalty revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to 85% and 83% for the comparable periods of 2019. Geographic Revenue Analysis First Half First Half Second Quarter Second Quarter 2020 2019 2020 2019 (in millions, except percentages) (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 5.9 12 % $ 3.9 11 % $ 2.6 11 % $ 2.1 12 % Europe and Middle East (1) $ 13.9 30 % $ 6.3 18 % $ 8.9 38 % $ 3.0 16 % Asia Pacific (2) (3) $ 27.4 58 % $ 25.1 71 % $ 12.1 51 % $ 13.3 72 % (1) Germany $ 8.9 19 % $ 5.2 15 % $ 4.9 21 % $ 2.6 14 % (2) China $ 21.6 46 % $ 16.5 47 % $ 9.6 40 % $ 9.3 51 % (3) Japan )* )* $ 4.8 14 % )* )* $ 2.2 12 % *) Less than 10%. 28 Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues was $3.0 million and $5.8 million for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to $2.5 million and $4.5 million for the comparable periods of 2019. Cost of revenues accounted for 13% and 12% of our total revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to 14% and 13% for the comparable periods of 2019. The increase for the second quarter of 2020 principally reflected higher salaries and related costs (partially due to salary and related costs associated with the Hillcrest Labs employees which are included in the results for the second quarter of 2020, which costs were not incurred for the second quarter of 2019) and higher materials related to the Hillcrest Labs chip business. The increase for the first half of 2020 principally reflected higher salaries and related costs (partially due to salary and related costs associated with the Hillcrest Labs employees included in the results for the first half of 2020, which costs were not incurred for the first half of 2019), higher payments to the Israeli Innovation Authority of the Ministry of Economy and Industry in Israel (the IIA) and higher materials related to the Hillcrest Labs chip business. Included in cost of revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2020 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $156,000 and $314,000, respectively, as compared to $160,000 and $296,000 for the comparable periods of 2019. Gross Margin Gross margin for the second quarter and first half of 2020 was 87% and 88%, respectively, as compared to 86% and 87% for the comparable periods of 2019. The increase for both the second quarter and first half of 2020 mainly reflected higher total revenues, offset by higher cost of revenues as set forth above. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $22.1 million and $44.6 million for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to $18.1 million $36.0 million for the comparable periods of 2019. The net increase in total operating expenses for both the second quarter and first half of 2020 principally reflected (1) higher salary and employee-related costs, mainly due to higher headcount, and the inclusion of salary and related costs associated with the Hillcrest Labs employees for the first half of 2020, which costs were not incurred for the first half of 2019 as the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business was consummated in July 2019, (2) lower research grants received from the IIA, (3) higher allowance for credit losses, and (4) higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. The increase in total operating expenses was partially offset by higher Crdit Impt Recherche (CIR) received from the French tax authorities. Research and Development Expenses, Net Our research and development expenses, net, were $15.0 million and $30.1 million for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to $12.4 million and $24.7 million for the comparable periods of 2019. The net increase for both the second quarter and first half of 2020 principally reflected (1) higher salary and employee-related costs, mainly due to higher headcount, and the inclusion of salary and related costs associated with the Hillcrest Labs employees for the second quarter and first half of 2020, and (2) lower research grants received, mainly from the IIA. The increase in research and development expenses was partially offset by higher CIR received from the French tax authorities. Included in research and development expenses for the second quarter and first half of 2020 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $1,722,000 and $3,345,000, respectively, as compared to $1,458,000 and $2,820,000 for the comparable periods of 2019. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 63% and 64% for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to 67% and 70% for the comparable periods of 2019. The percentage decrease for the second quarter and first half of 2020, as compared to the comparable periods of 2019 was due to higher total revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2020 as compared to the comparable periods of 2019, offset by the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in research and development expenses in absolute dollars for the comparable periods of 2020 and 2019. The number of research and development personnel was 307 at June 30, 2020, as compared to 267 at June 30, 2019. We anticipate that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in 2020, partially due to a full year of expenses associated with the Hillcrest Labs business. 29 Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $2.9 million and $6.1 million for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to $3.0 million and $6.0 million for the comparable periods of 2019. The slight change for both the second quarter and first half of 2020 primarily reflected higher salary and employee-related costs and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by lesser travel and marketing activities and events due to COVID-19. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the second quarter and first half of 2020 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $512,000 and $963,000, respectively, as compared to $394,000 and $750,000 for the comparable periods of 2019. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 12% and 13% for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to 16% and 17% for the comparable periods of 2019. The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 35 at June 30, 2020, as compared to 32 at June 30, 2019. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $3.7 million and $7.3 million for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to $2.5 million and $4.9 million for the comparable periods of 2019. The increase for both the second quarter and first half of 2020 primarily reflected higher allowance for credit losses and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in general and administrative expenses for the second quarter and first half of 2020 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $1,027,000 and $1,902,000, respectively, as compared to $667,000 and $1,229,000 for the comparable periods of 2019. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 16% for both the second quarter and first half of 2020, as compared to 14% for both comparable periods of 2019. The percentage increase for the second quarter and first half of 2020 was due to the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars, offset by higher total revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2020, as compared to the comparable periods of 2019. The number of general and administrative personnel was 33 at June 30, 2020, as compared to 32 at June 30, 2019. Amortization of intangible assets Our amortization charges was $0.6 million and $1.2 million for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to $0.2 million and $0.4 million for the comparable periods of 2019. The amortization charges for the second quarter and first half of 2020 were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with (1) the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business in July 2019, and (2) a technology investment in Immervision in August 2019. The amortization charges for the second quarter and first half of 2019 were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of RivieraWaves. For more information about our intangible assets, see Notes 7 to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020. Financial Income, Net (in millions) First Half 2020 First Half 2019 Second Quarter 2020 Second Quarter 2019 Financial income, net $ 1.67 $ 1.70 $ 0.84 $ 0.90 of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 1.60 $ 1.90 $ 0.75 $ 0.97 Foreign exchange income (loss) $ 0.07 $ (0.20 ) $ 0.09 $ (0.07 ) Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities and foreign exchange movements. The decrease in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during both the second quarter and first half of 2020 principally reflected lower combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held (mainly as a result of the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business and the technology investment in Immervision during the third quarter of 2019) and lower yields. We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. This has resulted in a foreign exchange gain of $0.09 million and $0.07 million for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to foreign exchange loss of $0.07 million and $0.20 million for the comparable periods of 2019. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses was $0.4 million and $0.8 million for the second quarter and first half of 2020, respectively, as compared to income tax expenses of $0.2 million and $0.4 million for the comparable periods of 2019. 30 We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. Additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. A number of factors influence our effective tax rate, including changes in tax laws and treaties, as well as the interpretation of existing laws and rules. Federal, state, and local governments and administrative bodies within the United States, and other foreign jurisdictions have implemented, or are considering, a variety of broad tax, trade, and other regulatory reforms that may impact us. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the U.S. Tax Reform) enacted on December 22, 2017 resulted in changes to our U.S. corporate tax rate, our U.S. deferred income taxes, and the taxation of foreign earnings. It is not currently possible to accurately determine the potential comprehensive impact of these or future changes in tax laws, but these changes could have a material impact on our business and financial condition. We have significant operations in Israel, France and the Republic of Ireland. A substantial portion of our taxable income is generated in Israel. Currently, our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary qualified for a 28.0% tax rate for all taxable profits. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits as a technological enterprise. In December 2016, the Economic Efficiency Law (Legislative Amendments for Applying the Economic Policy for the 2017 and 2018 Budget Years), 2016, which includes the Amendment to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (Amendment 73) (the Amendment), was published. The Amendment, among other things, prescribes special tax tracks for technological enterprises, which are subject to rules that were issued by the Minister of Finance in April 2017. The new tax track under the Amendment, which is applicable to our Israeli subsidiary, is the Technological Preferred Enterprise. Technological Preferred Enterprise is an enterprise for which total consolidated revenues of its parent company and all subsidiaries are less than 10 billion New Israeli Shekel (NIS). A Technological Preferred Enterprise, as defined in the Amendment, that is located in the center of Israel (where our Israeli subsidiary is currently located), is taxed at a rate of 12% on profits deriving from intellectual property. Any dividends distributed to foreign companies, as defined in the Amendment, deriving from income from technological enterprises will be taxed at a rate of 4%. We are applying the Technological Preferred Enterprise tax track for our Israeli subsidiary from tax year 2020 and onwards. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, fair value of financial instruments, equity-based compensation and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2020, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of June 30, 2020, we had approximately $30.0 million in cash and cash equivalents, $58.8 million in short term bank deposits, $67.3 million in marketable securities, and $1.3 million in long term bank deposits, totaling $157.4 million, as compared to $150.0 million at December 31, 2019. The increase for the first half of 2020 principally reflected cash provided by operations, partially offset by funds used to repurchase 202,392 shares of common stock for an aggregate consideration of approximately $4.8 million. Out of total cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities of $157.4 million, $141.4 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate these funds. The determination of the amount of additional taxes related to the repatriation of these earnings is not practicable, as it may vary based on various factors such as the location of the cash and the effect of regulation in the various jurisdictions from which the cash would be repatriated. 31 During the first half of 2020, we invested $31.9 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 58 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $31.4 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of income (loss). We did not recognize any other-than-temporarily-impaired charges on marketable securities during the first half of 2020. For more information about our marketable securities, see Notes 5 to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended June 30, 2020. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the first half of 2020 was $12.6 million and consisted of net loss of $2.3 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $9.5 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.4 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $2.9 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets and $6.5 million of equity-based compensation expenses. The increase in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in trade receivables of $8.5 million, partially offset by an increase in deferred taxes, net, of $2.5 million, and a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $1.2 million. Cash provided by operating activities for the first half of 2019 was $1.3 million and consisted of net loss of $3.8 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $7.6 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $2.5 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $2.0 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $5.1 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.3 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The decrease in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.4 million (mainly as a result of payment of a yearly design tool subscription), an increase in accrued interest on bank deposits of $0.7 million, an increase in deferred taxes, net of $0.7 million, a decrease in deferred revenues of $1.2 million and a decrease in payroll and related benefits of $0.8 million, partially offset by a decrease in trade receivables of $4.1 million (mainly as a result of a decrease in unbilled receivables associated with royalties). Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from research and development government grants and French research tax credits, and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first half of 2020 was $2.0 million, compared to $4.7 million of net cash provided by investing activities for the comparable period of 2019. We had a cash outflow of $21.5 million and a cash inflow of $19.1 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first half of 2020, as compared to a cash outflow of $5.0 million and a cash inflow of $7.3 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first half of 2019. For the first half of 2020, we had net proceeds of $2.0 million from bank deposits, as compared to net proceeds of $3.8 million from bank deposits for the comparable period of 2019. We had a cash outflow of $1.4 million during both the first half of 2020 and 2019 from purchase of property and equipment. For the first half of 2020, we had a cash outflow of $0.2 million for the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the first half of 2020 was $3.4 million, as compared to $3.7 million of net cash used in financing activities for the comparable period of 2019. The decrease is mainly due to higher proceeds received from the exercise of stock-based awards, as set forth below. 32 In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock which was further extended collectively by an additional 5,700,000 shares in 2010, 2013, 2014 and 2018. In February 2020, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 700,000 shares of common stock. During the first half of 2020, we repurchased 202,392 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $23.62 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $4.8 million. During the first half of 2019, we repurchased 194,316 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $25.01 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $4.9 million. As of June 30, 2020, we had 497,608 shares available for repurchase. During the first half of 2020, we received $1.4 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $1.2 million received for the comparable period of 2019. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. We believe the company has the financial resources to weather the expected short-term impacts of COVID-19. However, we have limited insight into the extent to which our business may be impacted by COVID-19, and there are many uncertainties, including the length and severity of the pandemic. An extended and severe pandemic may materially and adversely affect our future operations, financial position and liquidity. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk FactorsWe may seek to expand our business in ways that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. for more detailed information.