Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of CEVA, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Headquartered in Mountain View, California, CEVA is the leading licensor of wireless connectivity and smart sensing technologies. We offer combinations of processors and software as licensable Intellectual Property (IP) platforms for a range of applications, including cellular, short-range wireless connectivity, AI, computer vision, voice, audio and sensor fusion. These IP platforms are licensed to customers who embed them into their System-on-Chip (SoC) and microcontroller designs to create power-efficient, intelligent and connected devices. Our customers include many of the worlds leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies targeting a wide variety of IoT end markets, including mobile, PC, consumer, automotive, robotics, industrial and medical devices. Our ultra-low-power signal processing IPs are enabled by our own Digital Signal Processors (DSP) or an ARM / RISC-V CPU and are deployed in devices for smart sensing and connectivity workloads. Our smart sensing portfolio includes advanced technologies for cameras, microphones and interial measurement units (IMU). Our camera platforms incorporate DSPs and software technologies for AI, computer vision and imaging. Our microphone technologies incorporate DSPs and software technologies for noise cancellation, echo cancellation and voice recognition. Our IMU technologies include ARM-based software supporting sensor processing of accelerometers, gyroscopes, magnetometers, optical flow and time-of-flight (ToF), and sensor fusion for IMU and environmental sensor-enabled devices. Our connectivity portfolio includes LTE and 5G mobile broadband platforms for handsets and base station RAN, NB-IoT for low bit rate cellular and Bluetooth and Wi-Fi technologies for wireless IoT. We believe that our licensing business is healthy with a diverse customer base and a myriad of target markets. Our state-of-the-art technology has shipped in more than 10 billion chips to date for a wide range of end markets. Every second, thirty devices sold worldwide are powered by CEVA. We believe the adoption of our wireless connectivity and smart sensing products beyond our incumbency in the handset baseband market continues to progress. As a testament to this trend, during the third quarter of 2019, we concluded fourteen licensing deals, all of which are for non-cellular handset baseband applications. Based on shipment data or our best estimates of the shipment data for the third quarter of 2019, shipments of CEVA-powered non-cellular baseband products grew 29% year-over-year to reach 123 million units, a CEVA record high. This data is indicative of the continued traction our non-baseband customers are gaining with our signal processing IPs. In July 2019, we expanded our smart sensing product portfolio and market reach with two strategic transactions. We acquired the Hillcrest Laboratories, Inc. (Hillcrest Labs) business from InterDigital, Inc. (InterDigital) and non-exclusive license rights to certain patents retained by InterDigital for $11.2 million in cash. Hillcrest Labs is a leading global supplier of software and components for sensor processing in a wide range of IoT devices. We also formed a strategic partnership and made a $10 million technology investment in Immervision, Inc. (Immervision). Immervision is a developer and licensor of wide-angle lenses and image processing technologies. Through this technology investment, we secured exclusive licensing rights to Immervisions patented image processing and sensor fusion software portfolio for wide-angle cameras, which are broadly used in surveillance, smartphone, automotive, robotics and consumer applications. These two strategic deals will enable us to further expand our product offerings and customer reach and allow us to move up the value chain and create tighter relationships with semiconductor companies and OEMs. We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: CEVA is an incumbent player in the largest space in the semiconductor industry mobile handsets. Our customers use our technologies for baseband and voice processing and currently have a solid market share in particular for premium-tier and low-tier LTE smartphones and feature phones. Recently, a key customer of ours announced the availability of a 5G chip powered by our DSP, which is expected to be in the market in 2020. 27 The royalty we derive from premium-tier smartphones is higher on average than that of mid and low-tier smartphones due to more DSP content that bears a higher royalty average selling price (ASP). Looking ahead, we believe our PentaG platform for 5G handsets is the most advanced cellular baseband IP in the industry today and puts us in a strong position to power 5G smartphones, fixed wireless and a range of machine to machine devices that will appear in cars, smart cities and industrial products. Our specialization and competitive edge in signal processing platforms for 5G base station RAN, including Remote Radio Units (RRU) and Base Band Units (BBU), put us in a strong position to capitalize on the emergence of 5G to address mass market adoption and benefit from new 5G infrastructure usage models, such as remote radio heads, cellular backhaul and small cells. Our broad Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT IPs allow us to expand further into IoT applications and substantially increase our overall addressable market and value-add. Our addressable market size for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT is expected to be more than 9 billion devices annually by 2022 based on ABI Research and Ericsson Mobility Reports. The growing market potential for voice assisted devices, as voice is becoming a primary user interface for IoT applications, including handsets, True Wireless Stereo (TWS) earbuds and headsets, mobile, smart home and consumer devices, offers an additional growth segment for us. To better address this market, we recently introduced our WhisPro speech recognition technology and ClearVox voice input software that are offered in conjunction with our audio/voice DSPs. These highly-integrated platforms, plus our proven track record in audio/voice processing with more than 6 billion audio chips shipped to date, put us in a strong position to power audio and voice roadmaps across this new range of addressable end markets. Our CEVA-XM4 and CEVA-XM6 imaging and vision platforms and deep learning capabilities provide highly compelling offerings for any camera-enabled device such as smartphones, automotive safety (ADAS), autonomous driving (AD), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), drones, and signage. Per research from Yole Dvelopement, camera-enabled devices incorporating computer vision and AI are expected to exceed 1 billion units by 2022. We have already signed more than fifty licensing agreements for our imaging and vision DSPs across those markets, where our customers can add camera-related enhancements such as smarter autofocus, better picture using super resolution algorithms, and better image capture in low-light environments. Other customers can add video analytics support to enable new services like augmented reality, gesture recognition and advanced safety capabilities in cars. This transformation in vision processing and neural net software are opportunities for us to expand our footprint and content in smartphones, drones, consumer cameras, surveillance, automotive ADAS and industrial IoT applications. Furthermore, our recent technology investment in Immervision adds an advanced portfolio of patented wide-angle image processing software to our product offerings for intelligent vision. This includes real-time adaptive de-warping, stitching, image color and contrast enhancement, electronic image stabilization and Data-in-Picture proprietary technology, which integrate within each video frame fused sensory data, such as that offered by Hillcrest Labs. We believe the addition of these technologies augments our CEVA-XM4 and CEVA-XM6 DSPs and are value-adds for our customers. Neural networks are increasingly being deployed in a wide range of camera-based devices in order to make these devices smarter. To address this significant and lucrative opportunity, we recently introduced NeuPro-S - a second-generation family of AI processors for deep learning at the edge. These self-contained Vision/AI processors bring the power of deep learning to the device, without relying on connectivity to the cloud. We believe this market opportunity for AI at the edge is on top of our existing product lines and represents new licensing and royalty drivers for the company in the coming years. In the first quarter of 2019, we concluded an agreement with one of the worlds leading automotive OEMs for our NeuPro AI processor targeting autonomous driving. In the third quarter of 2019, we concluded an agreement with a global automotive semiconductor company for our latest NeuPro-S processor for their ADAS platform. These deals are indicative of the new licensing and royalty drivers in the coming years. Our recent acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs sensor fusion business from InterDigital allows us to address an important technology for smart sensing, in addition to our existing portfolio for camera-based computer vision and AI processing, and microphone-based sound processing. MEMS-based inertial and environmental sensors are used in an increasing number of devices, including robotics, smartphones, laptops, tablets, TWS earbuds headsets, remote controls and many other consumer and industrial devices. Hillcrest Labs innovative and proven MotionEngine software supports a broad range of merchant sensor chips and is licensed to OEMs and semiconductor companies that can run the software on CEVA DSPs or a variety of RISC CPUs. The MotionEngine software expands and complements CEVAs smart sensing technology. Hillcrest Labs technology has already shipped in more than 100 million devices, indicative of its market traction and excellence. As a result, our licensees can now benefit from our capabilities as a complete, one-stop-shop for processing all classes and types of sensors. 28 As a result of our diversification strategy beyond baseband for handsets and our progress in addressing those new markets under the IoT umbrella, we expect significant growth in royalty revenues derived from non-handset baseband applications over the next few years, which will be comprised of a range of different products at different royalty ASPs spanning from high volume Bluetooth to high value base station RAN. The royalty ASP of our other products will be in between the two ranges. At our first investor and analyst day held on January 14, 2019 in New York City, we presented our anticipated financial metrics for year 2022. We forecasted that our licensing and related revenue in 2022 will grow approximately 10% to 20% from the 2018 levels, our royalty revenue will be approximately two times the 2018 levels, and our non-GAAP net income will be approximately three times the 2018 levels. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $23.4 million and $58.8 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, representing an increase of 10% and 4%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2018. For the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, the increase was principally due to higher licensing and related revenues in comparison to the corresponding periods in 2018. Five largest customers accounted for 54% and 48% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to 64% and 53% for the comparable periods in 2018. Two customers accounted for 23% and 15% of our total revenues for the third quarter of 2019, as compared to two customers that accounted for 26% and 16% of our total revenues for the third quarter of 2018. Two customers accounted for 19% and 15% of our total revenues for the first nine months of 2019, as compared to three customers that accounted for 16%, 16% and 12% of our total revenues for the first nine months of 2018. Sales to Spreadtrum represented 15% of our total revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, as compared to 16% for both the comparable periods in 2018. Generally, the identity of our other customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, two royalty paying customers and three royalty paying customers, each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, and collectively represented 65% and 74% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively. Three royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, and collectively represented 80% and 77% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. Starting on January 1, 2019, certain amounts in the prior years financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation. Amounts under connectivity products classification are associated with all baseband for handsets (2G, 3G, 4G and 5G) and others (base station RAN, mmwave small cells and cellular V2X), Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, NB-IoT and SATA/SAS revenues. The rest of products, namely AI, audio/sound/speech, computer vision and advanced imaging products, have been reclassified under smart sensing products. Such reclassification has no effect on stockholders equity or net income as previously reported. Starting in July 2019, we expanded our smart sensing product portfolio with Hillcrest Labs software and components for sensor processing and Immervisions wide-angle lenses and image processing technologies. The following table sets forth the products and services as percentages of our total revenues for each of the periods set forth below: Nine months 2019 Nine months 2018 Third Quarter 2019 Third Quarter 2018 Connectivity products 79 % 83 % 81 % 91 % Smart sensing products 21 % 17 % 19 % 9 % Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $11.3 million and $33.1 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, representing an increase of 15% and 11%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2018. The increase in licensing and related revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2019 was due to our extensive product portfolio in smart sensing, especially with vision and related AI products, and base station, partially offset from lower Bluetooth revenues. In the third quarter of 2019, we signed fourteen deals, including comprehensive agreements with industry leaders in strategic markets such as ADAS, hearing aids and cellular IoT. We remain focused on executing licensing agreements and gaining key customer adoptions, as evident across the first three quarters of this year. 29 Licensing and related revenues accounted for 48% and 56% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to 46% and 53% for the comparable periods of 2018. Of the fourteen license agreements completed during the quarter, one was for a smart sensing product and thirteen were for connectivity products. All of the licensing agreements signed during the quarter were for non-handset baseband applications and five were with first-time customers of CEVA. Geographically, six of the deals signed were in China, five were in the U.S., two were in Europe and one was in Japan. Overall, we continue to encounter healthy demand for our products for the last quarter of the year. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $12.2 million and $25.8 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, representing an increase of 5% and a decrease of 3%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2018. Royalty revenues accounted for 52% and 44% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to 54% and 47% for the comparable periods of 2018. The increase in royalty revenues for the third quarter of 2019 reflects good momentum in non-handset products. Sequentially, our handset baseband customers benefitted from the launch of premium smartphones and share gain in the low-cost smartphone market, although royalty revenues decreased on a year-over-year basis. Our non-handset business continues to grow with record high quarterly revenues and unit shipments of 123 million, including first-time contribution from our newly acquired Hillcrest Labs sensor fusion business. The decrease in royalty revenues for the first nine months of 2019 reflects a decrease in smartphone handset shipments, offset by higher shipments of non-handset baseband products, including first-time contribution from the Hillcrest Labs sensor fusion business. We expect a 10% sequential increase in royalties in the last quarter of the year, which if achieved, would be the highest royalty revenue quarter in the companys history. Our customers reported sales of 292 million and 684 million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, an increase of 11% and flattish from the corresponding periods in 2018 for actual shipments reported. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 86% and 83% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to 91% and 87% for the comparable periods of 2018. Geographic Revenue Analysis Nine months 2019 Nine months 2018 Third Quarter 2019 Third Quarter 2018 (in millions, except percentages) (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 7.7 13 % $ 6.1 11 % $ 3.8 16 % $ 2.3 10 % Europe and Middle East (1) $ 13.2 23 % $ 11.3 20 % $ 6.9 29 % $ 6.1 29 % Asia Pacific (2) (3) (4) $ 37.9 64 % $ 39.1 69 % $ 12.8 54 % $ 13.0 61 % (1) Germany $ 10.6 18 % $ 8.6 15 % $ 5.4 23 % $ 5.6 26 % (2) China $ 25.5 43 % $ 23.1 41 % $ 9.0 38 % $ 10.2 48 % (3) S. Korea *) *) $ 7.2 13 % *) *) *) *) (4) Japan $ 6.5 11 % $ 6.1 11 % *) *) *) *) *) Less than 10%. Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues was $2.8 million and $7.3 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to $2.0 million and $6.0 million, respectively, for the comparable periods of 2018. Cost of revenues accounted for 12% of our total revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, as compared to 9% and 11%, respectively, for the comparable periods of 2018. The increase for the third quarter of 2019 principally reflected higher customization work for our licensees, higher third-party IP costs (associated with the NB-IoT product line) and first-time cost of unit shipments related to the Hillcrest Labs sensor fusion business. The increase for the first nine of 2019 principally reflected higher customization work for our licensees, higher salaries and related costs and higher third-party IP costs (associated with the NB-IoT product line). Included in cost of revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $168,000 and $464,000, respectively, as compared to $155,000 and $480,000, respectively, for the comparable periods of 2018. 30 We anticipate that our cost of revenues will increase by up to $2 million in 2019 as compared to 2018, partially due to higher expenses of up to $1.0 million for engineering customization-related expenses that will be allocated from our research and developments costs to cost of revenues on a 5G-related license deal executed in 2018, as well as the addition of the expenses of the Hillcrest Labs business starting in the third quarter of 2019. Gross Margin Gross margin for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 was 88%, as compared to 91% and 89%, respectively, for the comparable periods of 2018. The decrease for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 mainly reflected higher cost of revenues as set forth above. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $21.0 million and 57.0 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to $17.3 million and $53.9 million, respectively, for the comparable periods of 2018. The net increase in total operating expenses for both the third quarter and first nine of 2019 principally reflected (1) higher salary and employee-related costs, mainly due to higher headcount and first time salary and related costs associated with the Hillcrest Labs employees, (2) higher professional services cost and a lease write-off related to the Hillcrest Labs acquisition, (3) higher amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of Hillcrest Labs and technology investment in Immervision during the third quarter of 2019, and (4) higher research and development project-related costs, partially offset by higher research grants received (mainly from the Israeli Innovation Authority of the Ministry of Economy and Industry in Israel (the IIA)). We expect that as a result of the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business in July 2019 that our operating expenses will include, starting from the third quarter of 2019, the ongoing Hillcrest Labs expenses, which are expected to be approximately an additional $1.5 million per quarter, which expenses exclude amortizations and equity based compensation expenses as the final purchase price allocation for the acquisition has not been determined as of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Research and Development Expenses, Net Our research and development expenses, net, were $13.9 million and $38.6 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to $11.9 million and $35.8 million, respectively, for the comparable periods of 2018. The net increase for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 principally reflected (1) higher salary and employee-related costs, mainly due to higher headcount and first time salary and related costs associated with the Hillcrest Labs employees, and (2) higher project related expenses, partially offset by higher research grants received, mainly from the IIA. Included in research and development expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $1,494,000 and $4,314,000, respectively, as compared to $1,246,000 and $3,874,000 for the comparable periods of 2018. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 59% and 66% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to 56% and 63% for the comparable periods of 2018. The percentage increase for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 as compared to the comparable periods of 2018 is due to the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in research and development expenses in absolute dollars for the comparable periods of 2019 and 2018. The number of research and development personnel was 290 at September 30, 2019, as compared to 240 at September 30, 2018. We anticipate that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in 2019. With our newly announced products, the new Hillcrest Labs business and continued momentum with our existing licensing business, we will continue to innovate and reinforce our leadership, but with disciplined investments in research and development. The increase in research and development expenses will be approximately $5 million in 2019, mainly associated with investments in headcount, employee-related costs and EDA tools. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $2.8 million and $8.8 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to $2.7 million and $9.3 million for the comparable periods of 2018. The increase for the third quarter of 2019 primarily reflected higher commission expenses. The decrease for the first nine months of 2019 primarily reflected lower marketing and trade shows activities, lower salary and employee-related costs and lower non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, offset by higher commission expenses. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $362,000 and $1,112,000, respectively, as compared to $369,000 and $1,246,000 for the comparable periods of 2018. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 12% and 15% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to 13% and 16% for the comparable periods of 2018. 31 The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 32 at September 30, 2019, as compared to 33 at September 30, 2018. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $3.5 million and $8.4 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to $2.4 million and $8.2 million for the comparable periods of 2018. The increase for the third quarter of 2019 primarily reflected higher professional services cost and a lease write-off related to the Hillcrest Labs acquisition. The increase for the first nine months of 2019 primarily reflected higher professional services cost and a lease write-off related to the Hillcrest Labs acquisition, partially offset by lower non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in general and administrative expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $728,000 and $1,957,000, as compared to $697,000 and $2,483,000 for the comparable periods of 2018. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 15% and 14% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, as compared to 11% and 15% for comparable periods of 2018. The percentage increase for the third quarter of 2019 is due to the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars. The percentage decrease for the first nine months of 2019 is due to higher total revenues for the first nine months of 2019, as compared to the comparable period of 2018, offset by the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars. The number of general and administrative personnel was 33 at September 30, 2019, as compared to 30 at September 30, 2018. Amortization of intangible assets Our amortization charges were $0.8 million and $1.2 for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to $0.2 million and $0.7 million for the comparable periods of 2018. The increase for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 principally reflected (1) the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business in July 2019, and (2) the amortization of intangible assets associated with the technology investment in Immervision in August 2019. For more information about our intangible assets, see Notes 8 to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019. Financial Income, Net (in millions) Nine months 2019 Nine months 2018 Third Quarter 2019 Third Quarter 2018 Financial income, net $ 2.30 $ 2.53 $ 0.60 $ 0.83 of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 2.78 $ 2.73 $ 0.88 $ 0.92 Foreign exchange loss $ (0.48 ) $ (0.20 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.09 ) Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities and foreign exchange movements. The decrease in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during the third quarter of 2019 principally reflected lower combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held (mainly as a result of the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business and the technology investment in Immervision during the third quarter of 2019). The increase in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during the nine months of 2019 principally reflected higher yields, offset by lower combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held (mainly as a result of the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business and the technology investment in Immervision during the third quarter of 2019). We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. This has resulted in a foreign exchange loss of $0.28 million and $0.48 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to foreign exchange loss of $0.09 million and $0.20 million, respectively, for the comparable periods of 2018. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax benefits was $0.4 million and $0.1 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, as compared to income tax expenses of $0.4 million and $0.8 million, respectively, for the comparable periods of 2018. The decrease for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 primarily reflected a tax benefit of $1.0 million due to the release of a tax provision as a result of the completion of a tax audit in a certain foreign tax jurisdiction. Currently, our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. 32 Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary qualified for a 31.0% tax rate on its profits, with the first 500,000 of taxable profit being subject to a reduced 28% rate. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits by virtue of the Approved Enterprise and/or Benefited Enterprise status granted to its eight investment programs, as defined by the Israeli Investment Law. In accordance with the Investment Law, our Israeli subsidiarys first seven investment programs were subject to corporate tax rate of 23% for the first nine months of 2019, and our Israeli subsidiarys eighth investment program was subject to corporate tax rate of 10% for the first nine months of 2019. However, our Israeli subsidiary is eligible for the erosion of tax basis with respect to its first seven investment programs, and this resulted in an increase in the taxable income attributable to the eighth investment program, which was subject to a reduced tax rate of 10% for the first nine months of 2019. The tax benefits under our Israeli subsidiarys active investment programs are scheduled to gradually expire starting in 2020. To maintain our Israeli subsidiarys eligibility for the above tax benefits, it must continue to meet certain conditions under the Investment Law. Should our Israeli subsidiary fail to meet such conditions in the future, these benefits would be cancelled and it would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the standard corporate rate and could be required to refund tax benefits already received, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed into law federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act). The Tax Act provides for significant and wide-ranging changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Broadly, the implications most relevant to us include: a) a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, with various base erosion rules that may effectively limit the tax deductibility of certain payments made by our U.S. entities to our non-U.S. affiliates and additional limitations on deductions attributable to interest expense; and b) adopting elements of a territorial tax system. To transition into the territorial tax system, the Tax Act included a one-time tax on cumulative retained earnings of U.S.-owned foreign subsidiaries, at a rate of 15.5% for earnings represented by cash or cash equivalents, and 8.0% for the balance of such earnings. In connection with our completed analysis of the impact of the Tax Act, and after utilization of existing tax loss carryforwards and foreign tax credit carryforwards, we did not incur a tax payment. In January 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board released guidance on the accounting for taxes on the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provisions of the Tax Act. The GILTI provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. The guidance indicates that either (i) accounting for deferred taxes relating to GILTI inclusions, or (ii) treating any taxes on GILTI inclusions as period cost, are both acceptable methods subject to an accounting policy election. We have elected to treat the GILTI tax as a period expense rather than provide U.S. deferred taxes on foreign temporary differences that are expected to generate GILTI income when they reverse in future years. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, fair value of financial instruments, equity-based compensation and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on March 4, 2019, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. Except for policy changes in accounting for leases associated with our adoption of Topic 842 (see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies- Leases in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1), there have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of September 30, 2019, we had approximately $14.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, $57.0 million in short term bank deposits, $70.5 million in marketable securities, and $5.3 million in long term bank deposits, totaling $147.6 million, as compared to $167.7 million at December 31, 2018. The decrease for the first nine months of 2019 principally reflected $21.0 million cash used for the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business and the technology investment in Immervision. 33 Out of total cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities of $147.6 million, $118.7 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate these funds. The determination of the amount of additional taxes related to the repatriation of these earnings is not practicable, as it may vary based on various factors such as the location of the cash and the effect of regulation in the various jurisdictions from which the cash would be repatriated. During the first nine months of 2019, we invested $32.1 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 56 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $46.6 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of income (loss). We did not recognize any other-than-temporarily-impaired charges on marketable securities during the first nine months of 2019. For more information about our marketable securities, see Notes 6 to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the first nine months of 2019 was $4.3 million and consisted of net loss of $3.0 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $12.4 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.1 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $3.7 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $7.8 million of equity-based compensation expenses, $0.4 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities and $0.4 million of unrealized foreign exchange loss. The decrease in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.5 million (mainly as a result of payment of a yearly design tool subscription), an increase in accrued interest on bank deposits of $0.9 million, and an increase in deferred taxes, net of $3.9 million (mainly due to (1) a release of a tax provision as a result of the completion of a tax audit in a certain foreign tax jurisdiction, and (2) an increase in withholding tax assets which can be utilized in future years), partially offset by an increase in deferred revenues of $1.2 million. Cash provided by operating activities for the first nine months of 2018 was $4.1 million and consisted of net loss of $1.7 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $11.7 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.9 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $2.9 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $8.0 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.6 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The decrease in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.8 million (mainly as a result of an increase in French research tax credits which is generally refunded every three years, and an increase in withholding tax assets which can be utilized in future years), an increase in accrued interest on bank deposits of $0.6 million, an increase in deferred taxes, net of $0.9 million, a decrease in deferred revenues of $0.8 million, a decrease in accrued expenses and other payables of $0.8 million, and a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $1.3 million, partially offset by a decrease in trade receivables and accrued revenues of $1.7 million and an increase in trade payables of $0.6 million. Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from research and development government grants and French research tax credits, and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first nine months of 2019 was $9.3 million, compared to $2.0 million of net cash used in investing activities for the comparable period of 2018. We had a cash outflow of $18.7 million and a cash inflow of $26.4 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first nine months of 2019, as compared to a cash outflow of $15.5 million and a cash inflow of $17.9 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first nine months of 2018. For the first nine months of 2019, we had net proceeds of $6.8 million from bank deposits, as compared to net proceeds of $0.5 million from bank deposits for the comparable period of 2018. We had a cash outflow of $2.7 million and $2.9 million during the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, from purchase of property and equipment. For the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, we had a cash outflow of $0.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively, from the purchase of a license of NB-IoT technologies. For the first nine months of 2019, we had a cash outflow of $21.0 million for the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business and the technology investment in Immervision. 34 Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the first nine months of 2019 was $2.4 million, as compared to $14.5 million of net cash used in financing activities for the comparable period of 2018. The decrease is mainly due to lower cash used for share repurchases, as set forth below. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock which was further extended collectively by an additional five million shares in 2010, 2013 and 2014. In May 2018, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 700,000 shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. During the first nine months of 2019, we repurchased 194,316 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $25.01 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $4.9 million. During the first nine months of 2018, we repurchased 527,212 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $31.76 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $16.7 million. We did not repurchase any shares of common stock during the third quarter of 2019. As of September 30, 2019, we have 160,864 shares available for repurchase. During the first nine months of 2019, we received $2.4 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $2.2 million received for the comparable period of 2018. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk FactorsWe may seek to expand our business in ways that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. for more detailed information.