Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of Ceva, Inc. and its subsidiaries. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Headquartered in Rockville, Maryland, Ceva is the leader in innovative silicon and software IP solutions that enable smart edge products to connect, sense, and infer data more reliably and efficiently. With the industrys only portfolio of comprehensive communications and scalable edge AI IP, Ceva powers the connectivity, sensing, and inference in todays most advanced smart edge products across consumer IoT, mobile, automotive, infrastructure, industrial, and personal computing. More than 18 billion of the worlds most innovative smart edge products from AI-infused smartwatches, IoT devices and wearables to autonomous vehicles, 5G mobile networks and more are powered by Ceva. Ceva is a trusted partner to over 400 of the leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies targeting a wide variety of cellular and IoT end markets, including mobile, PC, consumer, automotive, smart-home, surveillance, robotics, industrial and medical. The customers incorporate our IP into application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard products (ASSPs) that they manufacture, market and sell to OEMs and original design manufacturers. Our application software IP is licensed primarily to OEMs who embed it in their System on Chip (SoC) designs to enhance the user experience, and OEMs also license our hardware IP products and solutions for their SoC designs to create power-efficient, intelligent, secure and connected devices. Cevas wireless communications, sensing and edge AI technologies are at the heart of some of todays most advanced smart edge products. From Bluetooth connectivity, Wi-Fi, ultra-wide band (UWB) and 5G-Advanced platform IP for ubiquitous, robust communications, to scalable edge AI neural processing unit (NPU) IPs, sensor fusion processors and embedded application software that make devices smarter. We license our portfolio of wireless communications and scalable edge AI IP to our customers, breaking down barriers to entry and enabling them to bring new cutting-edge products to market faster, more reliably, efficiently and economically. Ceva is a sustainability and environmentally conscious company. We have adopted both a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and a Sustainability Policy, in which we emphasize and focus on environmental preservation, recycling, the welfare of our employees and privacy which we promote on a corporate level. At Ceva, we are committed to social responsibility, values of preservation and consciousness towards these purposes. We believe our portfolio of wireless communications and sensing and edge AI technologies address some of the most important megatrends, including 5G, generative AI, embedded AI, industrial automation and vehicle electrification. We continue to experience strong interest across our IP portfolio due to these trends, in both traditional and new areas. In the third quarter of 2024, ten IP licensing deals were concluded for a range of wireless and smart sensing use cases. We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: Our broad Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, UWB and cellular IoT IPs allow us to address the high volume IoT industrial, consumer and smart home markets. Our addressable market size for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, UWB and cellular IoT is expected to be more than 15 billion devices annually by 2027 based on research from ABI Research. In the third quarter of 2024, we signed licensing deals for our full range of wireless connectivity IPs, including our recently released Bluetooth 6 IP. We also reached a shipment milestone in the quarter, with combined unit shipments for these IPs surpassing 400 million units for the first time. This volume reflects our market leadership for our IP in these markets, where we already command more than 30% of the Bluetooth market share worldwide, excluding mobile. In addition, we believe that Wi-Fi presents a significant royalty revenue opportunity, given our leading market position in licensing Wi-Fi 6 with more than 40 customers to date and leadership position in Wi-Fi 7 IP. 27 Table of Contents Our PentaG2 platform and digital signal processors (DSPs) for 5G mobile broadband and 5G RedCap is the most comprehensive baseband IP platform in the industry today and provides newcomers and incumbents with a comprehensive solution to address the need for 5G processing for fixed wireless access, satellite communications and a range of connected devices such as robots, cars, smart cities and other devices for industrial applications. Indicative of the demand for our 5G IPs, in the third quarter of 2024, we signed three deals for 5G and 5G-Advanced new use cases, including with a satellite OEM, a leader in cellular IoT and an automotive V2X player. Our PentaG RAN platform for 5G RAN, including the recently announced Ceva-XC22 multi-thread DSP, ensures we offer the most comprehensive baseband processor IP in the industry today. Our 5G IPs provide newcomers and incumbents with a customizable solution to address the need for 5G, 5G Advanced and other communications in data centers and infrastructure. The high-volume consumer audio markets, including True Wireless Stereo (TWS) earbuds, smartwatches, AR and VR headsets, and other wearable assisted devices, offers an incremental growth segment for us for our Bluetooth, Audio AI DSPs and software IPs. For OEMs to better address this market, our RealSpace Spatial Audio & Head Tracking Solution and ClearVox voice input software are available to enhance the user experience and offer premium features. In the third quarter we signed a licensing deal with a high profile smartphone OEM, to incorporate our RealSpace solution in their upcoming headphones and TWS earbuds. The first devices are expected to be in the market by H1 2025. Our SensPro2 sensor hub AI DSP family is designed to address the growing demand for efficient, high-performance signal processing in sensor-based applications across various industries and applications such as smartphones, automotive safety (ADAS), autonomous driving (AD), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), natural language processing (NLP) and voice recognition. Research from Bloomberg Intelligence forecasts that hardware revenue associated with computer vision AI products and conversational AI devices will reach $61 billion and $108 billion, respectively by 2030, indicating the size of the market opportunity. This sensor hub AI DSP enables us to address the transformation in devices enabled by these applications, and expand our footprint and content in smartphones, drones, consumer cameras, surveillance, automotive ADAS, voice-enabled devices and industrial IoT applications. Transformer and classic neural networks are increasingly being deployed in a wide range of devices in order to make these devices smarter. Our newest generation family of AI NPUs present a highly-efficient and high performance architecture to enable generative and classic AI on any device including communication gateways, optically connected networks, cars, notebooks and tablets, AR/VR headsets, smartphones, and any other cloud or edge use case from the edge all the way to the cloud. Per research from Yole Group, 2.5 billion Edge AI devices will ship annually by 2026, illustrating the huge potential of the market. AI is rapidly making its way into IoT devices, thanks in part to the emergence of embedded AI, including tiny machine learning (TinyML) models, which enable small AI networks to be embedded in AIoT devices for sensing use cases including sound, vision, vibration and health monitoring. Our recently announced NeuPro-Nano family of AI NPUs present a compelling proposition to add a cost- and power-efficient processor to microcontroller units and SoC designs to handle the complete AI workloads, on-device. Per ABI Research, by 2030, over 40% of TinyML shipments will be powered by dedicated embedded AI hardware such as NeuPro-Nano, representing billions of devices annually. In the third quarter, we achieved our first design win for our NeuPro-Nano NPU with a high-volume semiconductor company targeting consumer electronics that already licenses and deploys our Bluetooth IP in their chips. As is evident from this deal, NeuPro-Nano allows us to expand on our strong position in IoT where we have a dominant position in wireless connectivity, as these customers increasingly look to add support for AI to their cost- and power-constrained chips for this market. Our sensor fusion and spatial audio application software allows us to address an important technology piece used in personal computers, robotics, TWS earbuds, smart TVs and many other smart sensing IP products, in addition to our existing portfolio for camera-based computer vision and AI processing, and microphone-based sound processing. MEMS-based inertial and environmental sensors are used in an increasing number of devices, including robotics, smartphones, laptops, tablets, TWS earbuds, spatial audio headsets, remote controls and many other consumer and industrial devices. Our innovative and proven MotionEngine software supports a broad range of merchant sensor chips and is processor-agnostic in order to address the requirements of any OEM or semiconductor company that wishes to enhance their customer user experience. The MotionEngine software has already shipped in more than 350 million devices, indicative of its market traction and excellence. Along with our SensPro sensor hub AI DSPs, our licensees now benefit from our capabilities as a one-stop-shop for processing many types of sensors. 28 Table of Contents As a result of our focus on silicon and software IP solutions that enable products to connect, sense, and infer data, we believe we are well positioned for long-term growth in shipments and royalty revenues derived from smart edge products. Royalty rates from these products are comprised of a range of ASPs, spanning from high volume Bluetooth and Wi-Fi to high value sensor fusion and base station RAN. The royalty ASP of our other products will be in between the two ranges. CURRENT TRENDS We believe that with digital transformation being a long-term trend that continues drives industries to become connected and intelligent, our ubiquitous technology and collaborative business model present a significant and secular growth prospect. We intend to continue to capitalize on the semiconductor momentum with our portfolio of technologies to enable three main use cases associated with smart edge devices: connect, sense and infer. We focus on four main markets, which are consumer, automotive, industrial and infrastructure, which we believe are large, diversified and represent the greatest opportunities for long-term growth. We will also continue to serve the mobile and PC markets where we have established customers and market presence. We believe our key customers are keenly receptive to our products roadmap around connect, sense and infer, and that they are willing to expand the scope of engagements with us as our roadmap aligns with their technology needs. Furthermore, we anticipate that we can expand our customer base and revenues in Europe and the U.S., as evidenced by our geography revenue split for the second and third quarters of 2024, complementing our strong presence in the APAC region. We believe our strategy is returning Ceva to year-over-year revenue growth for 2024, with overall revenue now expected to grow 7% to 9% over 2023, versus the 4% to 8% we expected at the beginning of the year. This growth started in the second quarter of 2024, became more evident in the third quarter of the year, is expected to continue in the last quarter of the year. In 2024, we expect our licensing and related revenues business will continue to expand into new markets and use cases in the industrial IoT (IIoT) and consumer IoT, offering connectivity platforms, sensing platforms and software, AI solutions (including AI engines, NPUs and software) and more. On royalties, we expect our connectivity products to continue to show strength in 2024, particularly related to our Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and cellular IoT business lines (which recorded 400 million units in the third quarter of 2024), with the initial ramp of automotive ADAS royalties expected in the fourth quarter of the year. Instability in the Middle East Our operations in Israel remain largely unaffected by the war between Israel and Hamas that began on October 7, 2023 and escalated to conflicts with Lebanon and Hezbollah, and we continue to drive our business and support our customers globally. However, a portion of our employees in Israel have been or are called to active reserve duty and additional employees may be called in the future, if needed. The Company has executed its business continuity plan with respect to those employees. It is possible that some of our operations in the region may be disrupted if this continues for a significant period of time or if the situation further deteriorates. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $27.2 million and $77.7 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, representing an increase of 13% and 6% as compared to the corresponding periods in 2023. The increase in total revenues for the third quarter of 2024 was due to higher licensing and related revenues and higher royalty revenues, as further described below. The increase in total revenues for the first nine months of 2024 was due to higher royalty revenues, offset by lower licensing and related revenues, as further described below. Our five largest customers accounted for 48% and 44% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to 53% and 30% for the comparable periods in 2023. Two customers accounted for 13% and 17% of our total revenues for the third quarter of 2024, as compared to three customers that accounted for 14%, 14% and 12% of our total revenues for the third quarter of 2023. One customer accounted for 13% of our total revenues for the first nine months of 2024, as compared to one customer that accounted for 10% of our total revenues for the first nine months of 2023. Sales to UNISOC (formerly Spreadtrum Communications, Inc. and RDA Corporation) represented 13% and 10% of our total revenues for the first nine months of 2024 and 2023, respectively. Generally, the identity of our customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our IP licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, two royalty paying customers represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, and collectively represented 43% of our total royalty revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2024. Two royalty paying customers represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2023, and collectively represented 46% and 41% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2023, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. 29 Table of Contents The following table sets forth use cases for Ceva technology portfolio as percentages of our total revenues for each of the periods set forth below: First Nine Months 2024 First Nine Months 2023 Third Quarter 2024 Third Quarter 2023 Connect (baseband for handset and other devices, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT) 83 % 83 % 80 % 86 % Sense & Infer (sensor fusion, audio, sound, imaging, vision and AI) 17 % 17 % 20 % 14 % Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $15.6 million and $44.3 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, representing an increase of 12% and a decrease of 3%, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2023. The increase in licensing and related revenues for the third quarter of 2024 was mainly due to the signing of number of strategic deals in the third quarter of 2024 for the 5G-Advenced modem markets, including a strategic OEM customer deal for 5G-Advanced satellite communications, partially offset by a decrease from our wireless communications IP portfolio. The decrease in licensing and related revenues for the first nine months of 2024 was mainly due to a decrease in our wireless communications IP portfolio, partially offset by few strategic deals for the 5G-advenced modem markets signed in the first nine months of 2024. During the quarter, ten IP licensing agreements were concluded, targeting a wide range of end markets and applications, including embedded AI solutions for consumer AIoT devices, 5G-Advanced satellite broadband for infrastructure and terminals, 5G for cellular IoT and V2X, spatial audio for headphones and TWS earbuds, and Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and UWB connectivity for wearables and hearables. Three of the deals signed in the quarter were with OEMs and three deals signed were with first-time customers. Licensing and related revenues accounted for 57% of our total revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, as compared to 58% and 62% for the comparable periods of 2023. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $11.6 million and $33.5 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, representing an increase of 15% and 22%, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2023. The third quarter and first nine months of 2024 included revenue of $0.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively, following the resolution of royalty audits. Excluding these amounts, the third quarter and first nine months of 2024 would have been up by 12% and 14%, respectively, as compared to the comparable periods of 2023. Royalty revenues accounted for 43% of our total revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, as compared to 42% and 38% for the comparable periods of 2023. The increase in royalty revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2024 are attributed to the continued strength in consumer and industrial IoT end markets, which helped us to achieve 15% year-over-year royalty revenue growth and delivered the second highest quarterly unit shipments in Cevas history of 522 million units. Cellular IoT units were at an all-time record high, while Bluetooth and Wi-Fi continued to be very robust. Overall, combined shipments of Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and cellular IoT surpassed 400 million units in a quarter for the first time, an impressive milestone for our IoT connectivity product line. Moreover, we saw sequential and year-over-year growth of TVs and PCs powered by our sensor fusion software. Our customers reported sales of 522 million and 1,354 million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, an increase of 4% and 16% from the corresponding periods in 2023 for actual shipments reported. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 61% and 60% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to 60% and 55% for the comparable periods of 2023. Geographic Revenue Analysis Nine Months 2024 Nine Months 2023 Third Quarter 2024 Third Quarter 2023 (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 12.0 15 % $ 5.7 8 % $ 8.1 30 % $ 1.6 7 % Europe and Middle East $ 11.6 15 % $ 10.5 14 % $ 2.7 10 % $ 5.6 23 % Asia Pacific (1) (2) $ 54.0 70 % $ 56.6 77 % $ 16.4 60 % $ 16.9 70 % Other $ 0.0 0 % $ 0.5 1 % $ $ 0.0 0 % (1) China $ 39.7 51 % $ 43.0 59 % $ 10.7 39 % $ 12.5 52 % (2) South Korea $ * ) * ) $ * ) * ) $ 3.0 11 % $ * ) * ) *) Less than 10% 30 Table of Contents Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues was $4.0 million and $9.4 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to $2.4 million and $9.4 million for the comparable periods of 2023. Cost of revenues accounted for 15% and 12% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to 10% and 13% for the comparable periods of 2023. The increase for the third quarter of 2024 principally reflected higher strategically beneficial customization work associated with the strategic 5G-Advanced deals we signed recently, as well as higher third-party IP costs (associated mainly with the Mobile and Infrastructure technology customers), higher revenue and the cost of unit shipments related to our sensor fusion chip business, and higher payments to the Israeli Innovation Authority of the Ministry of Economy and Industry in Israel (the IIA). Included in cost of revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $176,000 and $570,000, respectively, as compared to $216,000 and $636,000 for the comparable periods of 2023. Gross Margin Gross margin for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024 was 85% and 88%, respectively, as compared to 90% and 87% for the comparable periods of 2023. The decrease for the third quarter of 2024 mainly reflected higher cost of revenues as set forth above, offset by higher total revenues. The increase for the first nine months of 2024 mainly reflected higher total revenues. The gross margin for the third quarter and first nine months of 2023 reflects historical period on a re-cast basis excluding the Intrisix business as a discontinued operation, is also illustrative of our decision to return to pure IP licensing and royalty business model. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $25.9 million and $75.9 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to $24.4 million and $74.5 million for the comparable periods of 2023. The net increase for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2024 principally reflected higher allowance for credit losses. Research and Development Expenses, Net Total research and development expenses, net were $18.0 million and $54.7 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to $17.8 million and $54.5 million for the comparable periods of 2023. The slight increase for the third quarter of 2024 principally reflected higher retention costs and higher project related costs, partially offset by higher allocation of customization work for our licensees to cost of revenues. The slight increase for the first nine months of 2024 principally reflected lower research grants received, mainly from the IIA, and lower allocation of customization work for our licensees to cost of revenues, partially offset by lower project related costs. Included in research and development expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $2,421,000 and $6,866,000, respectively, as compared to $2,257,000 and $6,703,000 for the comparable periods of 2023. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 66% and 70% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to 74% for both the comparable periods of 2023. The percentage decrease for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, as compared to the comparable periods of 2023, was mainly due to higher revenues. The number of research and development personnel was 326 at September 30, 2024, as compared to 322 at September 30, 2023. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $3.1 million and $9.0 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to $2.9 million and $8.2 million for the comparable periods of 2023. The slight increase for the third quarter of 2024 principally reflected higher commission expenses. The increase for the first nine months of 2024 principally reflected higher commission expenses as well as higher sales training and higher marketing and trade shows events. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $491,000 and $1,307,000, respectively, as compared to $478,000 and $1,305,000 for the comparable periods of 2023. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 11% and 12% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to 12% and 11% for the comparable periods of 2023. 31 Table of Contents The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 32 at September 30, 2024, as compared to 34 at September 30, 2023. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $4.6 million and $11.8 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to $3.6 million and $11.3 million for the comparable periods of 2023. The increase for the third quarter of 2024 primarily reflected higher allowance for credit losses and higher professional services costs. The increase for the first nine months of 2024 primarily reflected higher allowance for credit losses. Included in general and administrative expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $1,120,000 and $2,936,000, respectively, as compared to $1,018,000 and $2,787,000 for the comparable periods of 2023. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 17% and 15% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to 15% for both the comparable periods of 2023. The number of general and administrative personnel was 45 at September 30, 2024, as compared to 51 at September 30, 2023. Amortization of Intangible Assets Our amortization charges were $0.1 million and $0.4 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to $0.1 million and $0.4 million for the comparable periods of 2023. The amortization charges for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024 and 2023 were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisitions of the Hillcrest Labs and VisiSonics business. Financial Income, Net (in millions) Nine Months 2024 Nine Months 2023 Third Quarter 2024 Third Quarter 2023 Financial income, net $ 4.96 $ 3.50 $ 2.30 $ 0.92 of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 4.44 $ 3.11 $ 1.50 $ 0.89 Foreign exchange gain $ 0.52 $ 0.39 $ 0.80 $ 0.03 Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities and foreign exchange movements. The increase in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during both the third quarter and first nine months of 2024 principally reflected higher combined bank deposits and marketable securities balances held (mainly because of cash received from the sale of Intrinsix in October 2023) and higher yields. We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. However, our Euro cash balances increase significantly on a quarterly basis beyond our Euro liabilities, mainly from applicable French research tax credits, which are generally refunded every three years. This has resulted in a foreign exchange gain of $0.80 million and $0.52 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to foreign exchange gain of $0.03 million and $0.39 million for the comparable periods of 2023. Remeasurement of Marketable Equity Securities We recorded an income of $21,000 and a loss of $97,000 for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to an income of $160,000 and a loss of $76,000 for the comparable periods of 2023, related to remeasurement of marketable equity securities, which we hold at cost. Over time, other income (expense), net, may be affected by market dynamics and other factors. Equity values generally change daily for marketable equity securities and upon the occurrence of observable price changes or upon impairment of marketable equity securities. In addition, volatility in the global economic climate and financial markets could result in a significant change in the value of our investments. 32 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses was $1.0 million and $4.3 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2024, respectively, as compared to $1.1 million and $3.1 million for the comparable periods of 2023. The increase for the first nine months of 2024 primarily reflected higher withholding tax expenses in our Israeli subsidiary for which we will not be able to obtain a refund from the tax authorities and the effect of the capitalization of R&D expenditures under IRC Section 174, partially offset by lower tax expenses on income generated in our French subsidiary (under the French IP Box regime). We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. Additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. A number of factors influence our effective tax rate, including changes in tax laws and treaties as well as the interpretation of existing laws and rules. Federal, state, and local governments and administrative bodies within the United States, and other foreign jurisdictions have implemented, or are considering, a variety of broad tax, trade, and other regulatory reforms that may impact us. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the U.S. Tax Reform) enacted on December 22, 2017 resulted in changes in our corporate tax rate, our deferred income taxes, and the taxation of foreign earnings. It is not currently possible to accurately determine the potential comprehensive impact of these or future changes, but these changes could have a material impact on our business and financial condition. We have significant operations in Israel and operations in France and the Republic of Ireland. A substantial portion of our taxable income is generated in Israel and France, as well as potentially in the U.S. due to global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) and the requirement to capitalize R&D expenditures under IRC Section 174 over 5 years if sourced from the U.S. and over 15 years if sourced internationally. Although our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries, and, from 2022 onward, our French subsidiary, are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates, the tax rates in these jurisdictions could nevertheless result in a substantial increase as a result of withholding tax expenses with respect to which we are unable to obtain a refund from the relevant tax authorities. Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary is entitled to a tax benefit of 10% applied to specific revenues under the French IP Box regime. The French IP Box regime applies to net income derived from the licensing, sublicensing or sale of several IP rights such as patents and copyrighted software, including royalty revenues. This elective regime requires a direct link between the income benefiting from the preferential treatment and the R&D expenditures incurred and contributing to that income. Qualifying income may be taxed at a favorable 10% CIT rate (plus social surtax, hence 10.3% in total). Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits as a technological enterprise. In December 2016, the Economic Efficiency Law (Legislative Amendments for Applying the Economic Policy for the 2017 and 2018 Budget Years), 2016, which includes the Amendment to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (Amendment 73) (the Amendment), was published. The Amendment, among other things, prescribes special tax tracks for technological enterprises, which are subject to rules that were issued by the Minister of Finance in April 2017. The new tax track under the Amendment, which is applicable to our Israeli subsidiary, is the Technological Preferred Enterprise. Technological Preferred Enterprise is an enterprise for which total consolidated revenues of its parent company and all subsidiaries are less than 10 billion New Israeli Shekel (NIS). A Technological Preferred Enterprise, as defined in the Amendment, that is located in the center of Israel (where our Israeli subsidiary is currently located), is taxed at a rate of 12% on profits deriving from intellectual property. Any dividends distributed to foreign companies, as defined in the Amendment, deriving from income from technological enterprises will be taxed at a rate of 4%. We are applying the Technological Preferred Enterprise tax track for our Israeli subsidiary from tax year 2020 and onwards. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. 33 Table of Contents We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, fair value of financial instruments, equity-based compensation and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, filed with the SEC on March 7, 2024, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of September 30, 2024, we had approximately $13.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, $2.0 million in bank deposits, and $142.9 million in marketable securities, totaling $158.1 million, as compared to $166.5 million at December 31, 2023. The decrease for the first nine months of 2024 principally reflected cash used in operating activities and funds used to repurchase 343,604 shares of common stock for an aggregate consideration of approximately $7.5 million, partially offset by cash proceeds from exercise of stock-based awards. Out of total cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities of $158.1 million, $133.3 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate these funds. The determination of the amount of additional taxes related to the repatriation of these earnings is not practicable, as it may vary based on various factors such as the location of the cash and the effect of regulation in the various jurisdictions from which the cash would be repatriated. During the first nine months of 2024, we invested $41.3 million of cash in marketable securities with maturities up to 30 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $34.4 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of loss. The amount of credit losses recorded for the first nine months of 2024 was immaterial. For more information about our marketable securities, see Note 7 to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities for the first nine months of 2024 was $4.6 million and consisted of net loss of $7.0 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $13.6 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $11.2 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $3.0 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, and $11.7 million of equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by $0.7 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities and $0.5 million of unrealized foreign exchange gain. The decrease in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in trade receivables of $7.8 million, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.7 million (mainly related to unbilled receivables of $2.7 million classified as other long-term assets in the Interim Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets). Cash used in operating activities for the first nine months of 2023 was $11.1 million and consisted of net loss of $15.6 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $16.1 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $11.6 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $3.9 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets (including $1.1 million from discontinued operations), and $12.3 million of equity-based compensation expenses. The decrease in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in trade receivables of $0.8 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $2.0 million (mainly as a result of an increase in applicable French research tax credits), an increase in deferred taxes, net of $1.5 million, a decrease in trade payables of $0.8 million, a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $6.2 million (mainly as a result of a yearly bonus payments), and a decrease of income tax payable of $1.4 million, partially offset by an increase in deferred revenues of $1.0 million. 34 Table of Contents Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from research and development government grants and French research tax credits, and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first nine months of 2024 was $1.1 million, compared to $7.2 million of net cash provided by investing activities for the comparable period of 2023. We had a cash outflow of $41.3 million and a cash inflow of $34.4 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first nine months of 2024, as compared to a cash outflow of $10.5 million and a cash inflow of $19.5 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first nine months of 2023. For the first nine months of 2024, we had net proceeds of $8.0 million from bank deposits, as compared to net proceeds of $4.0 million from bank deposits for the comparable period of 2023. We had a cash outflow of $1.9 million and $2.1 million during the first nine months of 2024 and 2023, respectively, from purchase of property and equipment. For the first nine months of 2024, we had a cash inflow of $0.5 million in connection with the sale of Intrinsix, and a cash outflow of $0.8 million for the acquisition of a Greek-based company. For the first nine months of 2023, we had a cash outflow of $3.6 million for the acquisition of the VisiSonics business. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the first nine months of 2024 was $4.6 million, as compared to net cash provided by financing activities in the amount of $0.4 million for the comparable period of 2023. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act, which was extended by an additional 7,800,000 shares collectively across further approvals in 2010, 2013, 2014, 2018, 2020, 2023 and November 2024. During the first nine months ended September 30, 2024, we repurchased 343,604 shares of common stock at an average purchase price of $21.70 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $7,456. During the first nine months ended September 30, 2023, we repurchased 135,078 shares of common stock at an average purchase price of $22.23 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $3,003. As of September 30, 2024, we had 356,396 shares available for repurchase, with 700,000 additional shares being approved by our board of directors for repurchase on November 7, 2024, bringing the aggregate to approximately 1,056,000 shares available for repurchase as of that date. During the first nine months of 2024, we received $2.9 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $3.4 million received for the comparable period of 2023. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.