Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. Management is actively monitoring the impact of the pandemic on the companys financial condition, liquidity, operations, suppliers, industry, and workforce. Given the continual evolution of the COVID-19 pandemic and the global responses to curb its spread, we are not able to estimate the full effect of the pandemic on the companys financial results for fiscal year 2020. The following discussions are subject to the future effects of the pandemic. The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of CEVA, Inc. and its subsidiaries. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Headquartered in Rockville, Maryland, CEVA is the leading licensor of wireless connectivity and smart sensing technologies. We offer a combination of digital signal processors (DSPs), platforms solution and related software IP for a range of applications, including cellular, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and other short-range wireless connectivity, AI, computer vision, voice, audio and sensor fusion. These IP products are licensed to customers who embed them into their system-on-chip (SoC) and microcontroller designs to create power-efficient, intelligent and connected devices. Our customers include many of the worlds leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies targeting a wide variety of IoT end markets, including mobile, PC, consumer, automotive, robotics, industrial and medical. Our ultra-low-power IPs are enabled by our own DSPs and controllers and are deployed in devices for smart sensing and connectivity workloads. Our smart sensing portfolio includes advanced technologies for cameras, microphones and inertial measurement units (IMU). Our camera platforms incorporate DSP cores, coprocessors and software technologies for AI, computer vision and imaging. Our microphone technologies incorporate DSP cores and software technologies for noise cancellation, echo cancellation and voice recognition. Our IMU technologies include processor agnostic software supporting sensor processing of accelerometers, gyroscopes, magnetometers, optical flow, as well as environmental sensors in devices. Our connectivity portfolio includes LTE and 5G mobile broadband platforms for handsets and base station RAN, NB-IoT for low bit rate cellular and Bluetooth and Wi-Fi technologies for wireless IoT. We believe that our licensing business is robust with a diverse customer base and a myriad of target markets. Our state-of-the-art technology has shipped in more than 11 billion chips to date for a wide range of end markets. Every second, thirty devices sold worldwide are powered by CEVA. We believe the adoption of our wireless connectivity and smart sensing products beyond our incumbency in the handset baseband market continues to progress. Reflecting this trend, during the third quarter of 2020, we concluded thirteen licensing deals, twelve of which are for base station and IoT applications. We continue to experience good demand for our products and expand our market reach into new areas. In the third quarter of 2020, we concluded an agreement with a leading automotive semiconductor company for an automotive ADAS application. We also concluded agreements broadly across our connectivity and sensing products, illustrating the industry demand for our diverse IP portfolio. We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: CEVA is an incumbent player in the largest space of the semiconductor industry mobile handsets. Our customers use our technologies for baseband and voice processing. Our key customers currently have a strong foothold in the market, including premium-tier and low-tier LTE smartphones and feature phones. The royalty we derive from premium-tier smartphones is higher on average than that of mid and low-tier smartphones due to more DSP content that bears a higher royalty average selling price (ASP). Looking ahead, we believe our PentaG platform for 5G handsets and 5G IoT endpoints is the most comprehensive baseband processor IP in the industry today and provides newcomers and incumbents with low entry barrier solution to address the need for power 5G processing for smartphones, fixed wireless and a range of connected devices such robots, cars, smart cities and other devices for industrial applications. 24 Our specialization and technological edge in signal processing platforms for 5G base station RAN, including Remote Radio Units (RRU), Active Antenna Units (AAU), Base Band Units (BBU) and Distributed Units (DU) put us in a strong position to capitalize on the growing 5G RAN across its new form factors such as V-RAN, C-RAN and O-RAN, as well as small cells and private networks. Our broad Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT IPs allow us to expand further into the high volume IoT applications and substantially increase our value-add. Our addressable market size for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT is expected to be more than 9 billion devices annually by 2022 based on ABI Research and Ericsson Mobility Reports. The growing market potential for voice assisted devices, as voice is becoming a primary user interface for IoT applications, including handsets, smart speaker, True Wireless Stereo (TWS) earbuds, AR &VR headsets, smartTVs, smart home and consumer devices, offers an additional growth segment for us. To better address this market, our WhisPro speech recognition technology and ClearVox voice input software are offered in conjunction with our audio/voice DSPs. These highly-integrated platforms, plus our proven track record in audio/voice processing and connectivity with more than 7 billion audio chips shipped to date, put us in a strong position to power audio and voice roadmaps across this new range of addressable end markets. Our SensPro scalable DSP architecture is the worlds first high performance sensor processor specifically for multi-sensory processing and provides highly compelling offerings for any sensor-enabled device and application such as smartphones, automotive safety (ADAS), autonomous driving (AD), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), Natural Language Processing (NLP) and voice recognition. Per research from Yole Dveloppement, camera-enabled devices incorporating computer vision and AI are expected to exceed 1 billion units and devices incorporating voice AI are expected to reach 620 million units by 2022. This new DSP architecture enables us to address the transformation in devices enabled by these applications, and expand our footprint and content in smartphones, drones, consumer cameras, surveillance, automotive ADAS, voice-enabled devices and industrial IoT applications. We signed our first customer during the second quarter of 2020 for this new processor that is targeting an automotive electric powertrain application. Neural networks are increasingly being deployed in a wide range of camera-based devices in order to make these devices smarter. To address this significant and lucrative opportunity, our NeuPro-S a second-generation family of AI processors for deep learning at the edge, brings the power of deep learning to the device, without relying on connectivity to the cloud. We believe this market opportunity for AI at the edge is on top of our existing product lines and represents new licensing and royalty drivers for the company in the coming years. Our Hillcrest Labs sensor fusion business unit allows us to address an important technology for smart sensing, in addition to our existing portfolio for camera-based computer vision and AI processing, and microphone-based sound processing. MEMS-based inertial and environmental sensors are used in an increasing number of devices, including robotics, smartphones, laptops, tablets, TWS earbuds, headsets, remote controls and many other consumer and industrial devices. Hillcrest Labs innovative and proven MotionEngine software supports a broad range of merchant sensor chips and is licensed to OEMs and semiconductor companies that can run the software on CEVA DSPs or a variety of RISC CPUs. The MotionEngine software expands and complements CEVAs smart sensing technology. Hillcrest Labs technology has already shipped in more than 100 million devices, indicative of its market traction and excellence. Along with our SensPro sensor fusion processors, our licensees can now benefit from our capabilities as a complete, one-stop-shop for processing all classes and types of sensors. As a result of our diversification strategy beyond baseband for handsets, and our progress in addressing those new markets under the base station and IoT umbrella, we expect a noticeable growth in royalty revenues derived from base station and IoT product category (formerly referred to as non-handset products) over the next few years. This trend is evident in the third quarter, where we shipped a record 200 million base station & IoT devices, generating a record $7.9 million in royalties for this product category. These devices are comprised of a range of different products at different royalty ASPs, spanning from high volume Bluetooth to high value sensor fusion and base station RAN. The royalty ASP of our other products will be in between the two ranges. Subsequent to our acquisition of the business of Hillcrest Labs located in Rockville, Maryland, we extended this business into industrial, robotics and automotive spaces, and are developing new products that combine Hillcrest Labs sensor processing with our other sensing and connectivity technologies to offer complete contextual computing solutions. Hillcrest Labs core technologies and research and development team play a pivotal role in these initiatives and our future technological developments. As a result, we have determined to make our Rockville, Maryland office the U.S. headquarters, effective immediately. 25 COVID-19 Throughout the COVID-19 outbreak, we have continued operations. We have taken a number of precautionary health and safety measures to safeguard our employees while maintaining business continuity. We are monitoring and assessing orders issued by applicable governments to ensure compliance with evolving COVID-19 guidelines. Despite the ongoing pandemic, we are encouraged by the persistent design activities of our customers and interests in our products. We are focused on continuing to expand our business to capitalize on the momentum we gained last year. We are further encouraged by recent indicators relating to our base station and IoT product category. During the first three quarters of 2020, the world encountered new trends and different seasonality than what we have encountered in prior years. Some consumer electronics products sold well and some new technologies were widely adopted due to social distancing and other restrictions. Nonetheless, prolonged measures to contain the spread of coronavirus poses uncertainty for economic activities. In particular, in emerging markets where our primary exposure is in low tier handsets, COVID -19 has had a negative impact. While the impact from COVID-19 on our financial results for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020 was not material as set forth in the below section discussing the results of operations for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, we are currently unable to determine or predict the nature, duration or scope of the overall impact the pandemic will have on our business, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources for the reminder of the year. As of the date of this filing, significant uncertainty exists concerning the magnitude of the impact and duration of the pandemic. While we are confident about our licensing pipeline, we may face some near-term softness, mainly related to a shortfall in consumer spending and its impact on demand for consumer electronic products. As a result, our royalty revenue for 2020 is less certain due to the pandemic. In light of the uncertain and rapidly evolving situation relating to the pandemic, we have taken a number of precautionary measures to manage our resources conservatively to mitigate the adverse impact of the pandemic. We will continue to closely monitor our exposure levels and align them to the dynamics we will experience in the coming months. We will assess our business during the crisis to make strategic decisions for our business in the best interests of stockholders. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $25.0 million and $72.2 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, representing an increase of 6% and 23%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2019. For the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, the increase was due to both higher licensing and related revenues and higher royalty revenues in comparison to the corresponding periods in 2019. Net loss for the third quarter of 2020 was $0.7 million, as compared to net income of $0.8 million reported for the same period in 2019. The net loss for the third quarter of 2020 notwithstanding reaching higher revenues is primarily due to taxes. Third quarter 2020 financials include a tax expense of approximately $1 million due to withholding tax which cannot be utilized in future years, while third quarter 2019 financials included a tax benefit of approximately $1 million due to the successful conclusion of a tax audit. Five largest customers accounted for 52% and 46% of our total revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to 54% and 48% for the comparable periods in 2019. Two customers accounted for 18% and 16% of our total revenues for the third quarter of 2020, as compared to two customers that accounted for 23% and 15% of our total revenues for the third quarter of 2019. Three customers accounted for 13%, 12% and 13% of our total revenues for the first nine months of 2020, as compared to two customers that accounted for 19% and 15% of our total revenues for the first nine months of 2019. Sales to UNISOC (formerly Spreadtrum Communications, Inc.) represented 18% and 12% of our total revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, as compared to 15% for both comparable periods in 2019. Generally, the identity of our other customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, three royalty paying customers represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter of 2020, and four customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the first nine months of 2020, and collectively represented 65% and 73% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively. Two royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter of 2019, and three customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the first nine months of 2019, and collectively represented 65% and 74% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2019, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. 26 The following table sets forth the products and services as percentages of our total revenues for each of the periods set forth below: Nine Months 2020 Nine Months 2019 Third Quarter 2020 Third Quarter 2019 Connectivity products 79 % 79 % 74 % 81 % Smart sensing products 21 % 21 % 26 % 19 % Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $12.4 million and $40.4 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, representing an increase of 10% and 22%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2019. The increase in licensing and related revenues for the third quarter of 2020 mainly reflected higher revenues from our connectivity products associated mainly with 5G networks, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi technologies. The increase in licensing and related revenues for the first nine months of 2020 mainly reflected higher revenues from our connectivity products associated mainly with 5G networks, base station, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi technologies, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from our computer vision products and technologies. Thirteen license agreements were concluded during the third quarter of 2020, of which five were for connectivity and eight were for smart sensing. Six of the thirteen deals were with first time customers. Target applications of our customers include ADAS, digital imaging, true wireless stereo earbuds, digital conferencing systems and a range of other smart IoT devices. Our licensing business in the first nine months of the year was robust given our broad technology portfolio for 5G networks, IoT, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi which enabled us to consistently grow our licensee base and expand our market reach into new lucrative areas despite the uncertainty brought about by COVID-19. Licensing and related revenues accounted for 50% and 56% of our total revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to 48% and 56% for the comparable periods of 2019. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $12.5 million and $31.7 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, representing an increase of 3% and 23%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2019. Royalty revenues accounted for 50% and 44% of our total revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to 52% and 44% for the comparable periods of 2019. The increase in royalty revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020 reflects higher revenues driven by record shipments for our base station & IoT product category, formerly referred to as non-handset products. Royalty revenues from this category grew 86% sequentially and 105% year-over-year to reach a record $7.9 million and $15.9 million in the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively. We have benefitted from expedited 5G RAN deployments in China and a series of product launches and shipments enabled by our Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and sensor fusion technologies (with the highest contribution from our base station, sensor fusion business, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi technologies). In our handset baseband category, we saw a strong recovery in the third quarter from our China-based customers targeting low tier 4G smartphones for India and other developing economies, which are gradually re-opening after COVID-19 lockdowns. Royalties from premium tier smartphones in the third quarter declined on a year-over-year basis as a new 5G smartphone series launched last month by Apple will use modems from a supplier that does not incorporate our technologies. Our customers reported sales of 349 million and 841million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, an increase of 20% and 23%, respectively, from the corresponding periods in 2019 for actual shipments reported. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 77% of our total royalty revenues for both the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, as compared to 86% and 83% for the comparable periods of 2019. Geographic Revenue Analysis Nine months 2020 Nine months 2019 Third Quarter 2020 Third Quarter 2019 (in millions, except percentages) (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 13.8 19 % $ 7.7 13 % $ 3.1 12 % $ 3.8 16 % Europe and Middle East (1) $ 10.0 14 % $ 13.2 23 % $ 0.8 3 % $ 6.9 30 % Asia Pacific (2) (3) $ 48.4 67 % $ 37.9 64 % $ 21.1 85 % $ 12.8 54 % (1)Germany *) *) $ 10.6 18 % *) *) $ 5.4 23 % (2)China $ 37.7 52 % $ 25.5 43 % $ 16.1 64 % $ 9.0 38 % (3)Japan *) *) $ 6.5 11 % *) *) *) *) *) Less than 10%. 27 Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues was $2.5 million and $8.3 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to $2.8 million and $7.3 million for the comparable periods of 2019. Cost of revenues accounted for 10% and 11% of our total revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to 12% for both comparable periods of 2019. The decrease for the third quarter of 2020 principally reflected lower customization work for our licensees and lower third-party IP costs (associated with the NB-IoT product line). The increase for the first nine months of 2020 principally reflected higher salaries and related costs (partially due to salary and related costs associated with the Hillcrest Labs employees being included in the results for the first half of 2020, which costs were not incurred for the first half of 2019), higher payments to the Israeli Innovation Authority of the Ministry of Economy and Industry in Israel (the IIA), higher materials related to the Hillcrest Labs business and higher amortization cost related to acquired assets (Immervision technologies), partially offset by lower third-party IP costs associated with the NB-IoT product line. Included in cost of revenues for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $159,000 and $473,000, respectively, as compared to $168,000 and $464,000 for the comparable periods of 2019. Gross Margin Gross margin for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020 was 90% and 89%, respectively, as compared to 88% for both comparable periods of 2019. The increase for both the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020 mainly reflected higher total revenues. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $22.5 million and $67.1 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to $21.0 million and $57.0 million for the comparable periods of 2019. The net increase in total operating expenses for the third quarter of 2020 principally reflected higher salary and employee-related costs, mainly due to higher headcount, and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. The net increase in total operating expenses for the first nine months of 2020 principally reflected (1) higher salary and employee-related costs, mainly due to higher headcount, and the inclusion of salary and related costs associated with the Hillcrest Labs employees for the first half of 2020, which costs were not incurred for the first half of 2019 as the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business was consummated in July 2019, (2) lower research grants received from the IIA, (3) higher allowance for credit losses, and (4) higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. The increase in total operating expenses for the first nine months of 2020 was partially offset by higher Crdit Impt Recherche (CIR) received from the French tax authorities. Research and Development Expenses, Net Our research and development expenses, net, were $15.6 million and $45.7 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to $13.9 million and $38.6 million for the comparable periods of 2019. The net increase for the third quarter of 2020 principally reflected higher salary and employee-related costs, mainly due to higher headcount, and lower research grants received from the IIA. The net increase for the first nine months of 2020 principally reflected (1) higher salary and employee-related costs, mainly due to higher headcount, and the inclusion of salary and related costs associated with the Hillcrest Labs employees for the first half of 2020, which costs were not incurred for the first half of 2019 as the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business was consummated in July 2019, (2) lower research grants received, mainly from the IIA, and (3) higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. The increase in research and development expenses for the first nine months of 2020 was partially offset by higher CIR received from the French tax authorities. Included in research and development expenses for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $1,770,000 and $5,115,000, respectively, as compared to $1,494,000 and $4,314,000 for the comparable periods of 2019. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 63% for both the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, as compared to 59% and 66% for the comparable periods of 2019. The percentage increase for the third quarter of 2020, as compared to the comparable period of 2019, was due to the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in research and development expenses in absolute dollars for the comparable periods of 2020 and 2019. The percentage decrease for the first nine months of 2020, as compared to the comparable period of 2019, was due to higher total revenues for the first nine months of 2020 as compared to the comparable period of 2019, offset by the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in research and development expenses in absolute dollars for the comparable periods of 2020 and 2019. 28 The number of research and development personnel was 304 at September 30, 2020, as compared to 290 at September 30, 2019. We anticipate that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in 2020, partially due to a full year of expenses associated with the Hillcrest Labs business. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $2.7 million and $8.8 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to $2.8 million and $8.8 million for the comparable periods of 2019. The slight decrease for the third quarter of 2020 primarily reflected lesser travel and physical marketing activities and events (like trade shows), but more digital related activities at lesser costs, due to COVID-19. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $533,000 and $1,496,000, respectively, as compared to $362,000 and $1,112,000 for the comparable periods of 2019. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 11% and 12% for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to 12% and 15% for the comparable periods of 2019. The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 35 at September 30, 2020, as compared to 32 at September 30, 2019. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $3.6 million and $10.9 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to $3.5 million and $8.4 million for the comparable periods of 2019. The slight increase for the third quarter of 2020 primarily reflected higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by a lease write-off related to the Hillcrest Labs acquisition recorded in the third quarter of 2019. The increase for the first nine months of 2020 primarily reflected higher allowance for credit losses and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in general and administrative expenses for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $1,084,000 and $2,986,000, respectively, as compared to $728,000 and $1,957,000 for the comparable periods of 2019. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 14% and 15% for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to 15% and 14% for the comparable periods of 2019. The number of general and administrative personnel was 32 at September 30, 2020, as compared to 33 at September 30, 2019. Amortization of intangible assets Our amortization charges was $0.6 million and $1.7 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to $0.8 million and $1.2 million for the comparable periods of 2019. The amortization charges for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020 were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with (1) the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business, and (2) a technology investment in Immervision. The amortization charges for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2019 were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with (1) the acquisition of RivieraWaves, (2) the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business, and (3) a technology investment in Immervision. For more information about our intangible assets, see Notes 7 to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020. Financial Income, Net (in millions) Nine months 2020 Nine months 2019 Third Quarter 2020 Third Quarter 2019 Financial income, net $ 2.69 $ 2.30 $ 1.02 $ 0.60 of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 2.26 $ 2.78 $ 0.66 $ 0.88 Foreign exchange income (loss) $ 0.43 $ (0.48 ) $ 0.36 $ (0.28 ) Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities and foreign exchange movements. 29 The decrease in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during both the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020 principally reflected lower combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held (mainly as a result of the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business and the technology investment in Immervision during the third quarter of 2019) and lower yields. We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. This has resulted in a foreign exchange gain of $0.36 million and $0.43 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to foreign exchange loss of $0.28 million and $0.48 million for the comparable periods of 2019. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses was $1.8 million and $2.5 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020, respectively, as compared to income tax benefit of $0.4 million and $0.1 million for the comparable periods of 2019. The increase for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2020 primarily reflected withholding tax expenses for which we will not be able to obtain a refund from certain tax authorities, and a tax benefit of $1.0 million recorded in the third quarter of 2019 due to the release of a tax provision as a result of the completion of a tax audit in a certain foreign tax jurisdiction. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. Additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. A number of factors influence our effective tax rate, including changes in tax laws and treaties, as well as the interpretation of existing laws and rules. Federal, state, and local governments and administrative bodies within the United States, and other foreign jurisdictions have implemented, or are considering, a variety of broad tax, trade, and other regulatory reforms that may impact us. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the U.S. Tax Reform) enacted on December 22, 2017 resulted in changes to our U.S. corporate tax rate, our U.S. deferred income taxes, and the taxation of foreign earnings. It is not currently possible to accurately determine the potential comprehensive impact of these or future changes in tax laws, but these changes could have a material impact on our business and financial condition. We have significant operations in Israel, France and the Republic of Ireland. A substantial portion of our taxable income is generated in Israel. Currently, our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary qualified for a 28.0% tax rate for all taxable profits. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits as a technological enterprise. In December 2016, the Economic Efficiency Law (Legislative Amendments for Applying the Economic Policy for the 2017 and 2018 Budget Years), 2016, which includes the Amendment to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (Amendment 73) (the Amendment), was published. The Amendment, among other things, prescribes special tax tracks for technological enterprises, which are subject to rules that were issued by the Minister of Finance in April 2017. The new tax track under the Amendment, which is applicable to our Israeli subsidiary, is the Technological Preferred Enterprise. Technological Preferred Enterprise is an enterprise for which total consolidated revenues of its parent company and all subsidiaries are less than 10 billion New Israeli Shekel (NIS). A Technological Preferred Enterprise, as defined in the Amendment, that is located in the center of Israel (where our Israeli subsidiary is currently located), is taxed at a rate of 12% on profits deriving from intellectual property. Any dividends distributed to foreign companies, as defined in the Amendment, deriving from income from technological enterprises will be taxed at a rate of 4%. We are applying the Technological Preferred Enterprise tax track for our Israeli subsidiary from tax year 2020 and onwards. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, fair value of financial instruments, equity-based compensation and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. 30 See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2020, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of September 30, 2020, we had approximately $22.1 million in cash and cash equivalents, $41.1 million in short term bank deposits, $78.5 million in marketable securities, and $11.4 million in long term bank deposits, totaling $153.1 million, as compared to $150.0 million at December 31, 2019. The increase for the first nine months of 2020 principally reflected cash provided by operations, partially offset by funds used to repurchase 202,392 shares of common stock for an aggregate consideration of approximately $4.8 million. Out of total cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities of $153.1 million, $134.2 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate these funds. The determination of the amount of additional taxes related to the repatriation of these earnings is not practicable, as it may vary based on various factors such as the location of the cash and the effect of regulation in the various jurisdictions from which the cash would be repatriated. During the first nine months of 2020, we invested $62.3 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 60 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $57.7 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. We did not record any impairment charge for unrealized losses during the first nine months of 2020. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of income (loss). For more information about our marketable securities, see Notes 5 to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the first nine months of 2020 was $8.3 million and consisted of net loss of $3.0 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $14.2 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $2.9 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $4.3 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets and $10.1 million of equity-based compensation expenses. The decrease in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.9 million, an increase in deferred taxes, net of $1.8 million (mainly due to an increase in withholding tax assets which can be utilized in future years) and a decrease in deferred revenues of $0.9 million, partially offset by a decrease in accrued interest on bank deposits of $0.8 million. Cash provided by operating activities for the first nine months of 2019 was $4.3 million and consisted of net loss of $3.0 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $12.4 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.1 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $3.7 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $7.8 million of equity-based compensation expenses, $0.4 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities and $0.4 million of unrealized foreign exchange loss. The decrease in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.5 million (mainly as a result of payment of a yearly design tool subscription), an increase in accrued interest on bank deposits of $0.9 million, and an increase in deferred taxes, net of $3.9 million (mainly due to (1) a release of a tax provision as a result of the completion of a tax audit in a certain foreign tax jurisdiction, and (2) an increase in withholding tax assets which can be utilized in future years), partially offset by an increase in deferred revenues of $1.2 million. Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from research and development government grants and French research tax credits, and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. 31 Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first nine months of 2020 was $7.3 million, compared to $9.3 million of net cash used in investing activities for the comparable period of 2019. We had a cash outflow of $41.9 million and a cash inflow of $28.3 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first nine months of 2020, as compared to a cash outflow of $18.7 million and a cash inflow of $26.4 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first nine months of 2019. For the first nine months of 2020, we had net proceeds of $9.0 million from bank deposits, as compared to net proceeds of $6.8 million from bank deposits for the comparable period of 2019. We had a cash outflow of $2.5 million and $2.7 million during the first nine months of 2020 and 2019, respectively, from purchase of property and equipment. For the first nine months of 2020 and 2019, we had a cash outflow of $0.2 million and $21.1 million, respectively, for the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business and the technology investment in Immervision. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the first nine months of 2020 was $1.9 million, as compared to $2.4 million of net cash used in financing activities for the comparable period of 2019. The decrease is mainly due to higher proceeds received from the exercise of stock-based awards, as set forth below. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock which was further extended collectively by an additional 5,700,000 shares in 2010, 2013, 2014 and 2018. In February 2020, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 700,000 shares of common stock. We did not repurchase any shares of common stock during the third quarter of 2020 and 2019. During the first nine months of 2020, we repurchased 202,392 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $23.62 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $4.8 million. During the first nine months of 2019, we repurchased 194,316 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $25.01 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $4.9 million. As of September 30, 2020, we had 497,608 shares available for repurchase. During the first nine months of 2020, we received $2.9 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $2.4 million received for the comparable period of 2019. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. We believe the company has the financial resources to weather the expected short-term impacts of COVID-19. However, we have limited insight into the extent to which our business may be impacted by COVID-19, and there are many uncertainties, including the length and severity of the pandemic. An extended and severe pandemic may materially and adversely affect our future operations, financial position and liquidity. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk FactorsWe may seek to expand our business in ways that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. for more detailed information.