Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of CEVA, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Headquartered in Mountain View, California, CEVA is a leading licensor of signal processing platforms and a primary player in artificial intelligence (AI) processors for a smarter, connected world. We partner with semiconductor companies and OEMs worldwide to create power-efficient, intelligent and connected devices for a range of end markets, including mobile, consumer, automotive, industrial and Internet of Things (IoT). Our ultra-low-power hardware and software IPs address many of the most complex technologies for imaging and computer vision, neural networks, sound and long- and short-range wireless. Our portfolio includes comprehensive platforms for 5G baseband processing in handsets and base station RAN, highly integrated cellular IoT solutions, DSP and voice input algorithms and software for voice-enabled devices, advanced imaging and computer vision DSP platforms for any camera-enabled device, and a family of self-contained AI processors that address a wide range of applications. For short-range wireless, we offer the industrys most widely adopted IPs for Bluetooth (low energy and dual mode) and Wi-Fi (Wi-Fi 4 (802.11n), Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac) and Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax) up to 4x4). Our technologies are licensed to leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies throughout the world. These companies incorporate our IP into application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard products (ASSPs) that they manufacture, market and sell to wireless, consumer, automotive and IoT companies. We believe that our licensing business is progressing well with strong interest, diverse customer base and a myriad of target markets. Our state-of-the-art technology has shipped in more than 9 billion chips to date for a wide range of diverse end markets. One in three to four handsets sold worldwide is powered by CEVA. Our signal processing platforms power many of the worlds leading handset OEMs, including a tier-one U.S. brand, ASUS, Coolpad, HTC, Intex, Jio, Karbonn, Lava, Lenovo, LG, Meitu, Meizu, Micromax, OPPO, Samsung, Vivo, Xiaomi and hundreds of local handset manufacturers in China and India. Moreover, we believe the adoption of our signal processing platforms and AI processors beyond cellular baseband market continues to progress. As a testament to this trend, during the third quarter of 2018, we concluded 13 licensing deals, all of which are for non-cellular baseband applications, nine of which are for our short range wireless IPs targeting the vast IoT market. Moreover, based on shipment data or our best estimates of the shipment data for the third quarter of 2018, shipments of CEVA-powered non-cellular baseband products reached an all-time quarterly record of 98 million units. This is indicative of the continued traction our non-baseband customers are gaining with our signal processing IPs. We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: CEVA is firmly established in the largest space in the semiconductor industry baseband for mobile handsets. In particular, in LTE smartphone markets, we continue to maintain a strong presence and during the third quarter of 2018, our customers shipped approximately 79 million LTE units, up 25% sequentially. This growth was primarily driven by the wide adoption of our advanced DSPs at the worlds most successful smartphone OEM in its new flagship models. The royalty we derive from high end smartphones is higher on average than that of mid and low tier smartphones due to more DSP content in high end premier smartphones that bear a higher royalty ASP. As a result, in the third quarter of 2018, we benefitted from an ASP uplift in LTE-based modems due to the wide adoption of our technology in a series of high end flagship smartphones that were launched. Looking ahead, our CEVA-PentaG state-of-the-art 5G platform for mobile broadband puts us in a strong position to power 5G modems for handsets, fixed wireless and other UE use cases. Incorporating a range of DSPs and processors, including an AI processor dedicated to improving 5G processing efficiency, we believe our CEVA-PentaG is the most advanced cellular baseband IP in the industry today. 24 Table of Contents Our specialization and competitive edge in signal processing platforms for next generation long and short range wireless such as 5G, NB-IoT, Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac) and Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax) technologies, and the inherent low cost, power and performance balance of our designs, put us in a strong position to simultaneously capitalize on mass market adoption of such technologies and address multiple markets and product sectors, including handsets, fixed wireless access, macro base stations, remote radio heads, cellular backhaul, small cells, Wi-Fi routers and a variety of machine type communications such as connected cars, smart cities and industrial markets. Together with our presence in the handset baseband market, our Bluetooth and Wi-Fi IPs allow us to expand further into IoT applications and substantially increase our overall addressable market. Our addressable market size is expected to be 35 billion devices by 2020, per data from ABI Research. Already, shipments of products incorporating our Bluetooth IP are sizeable, with more than 212 million CEVA-powered Bluetooth chips shipped in the first nine months of 2018, more than the amount that was shipped for the full year 2017. The growing market potential for voice assisted devices, as voice is becoming a primary user interface for IoT applications, including mobile, automotive and consumer devices, offers an additional growth segment for the company in voice-enabled devices such as smartphones, headsets, earbuds, smart speakers, smart home and automotive. To better address this market, we recently introduced CEVA-ClearVox, a new voice input software and algorithm, that is offered in conjunction with our audio/voice DSPs. CEVA-ClearVox, plus our proven track record in audio/voice processing with more than 6 billion audio chips shipped to date, put us in a strong position to power audio and voice roadmaps across this new range of addressable end markets. Our CEVA-XM4 and CEVA-XM6 imaging and vision platforms and deep learning capabilities provide highly compelling offerings for any camera-enabled device such as smartphones, tablets, automotive safety (ADAS), autonomous driving (AD), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), drones, and signage. Per ABI Research, camera shipments are expected to exceed 2.7 billion units by 2018. We have already signed more than 50 licensing agreements for our imaging and vision DSPs across those markets, where our customers can add camera-related enhancements such as smarter autofocus, better picture using super resolution algorithms, and better image capture in low-light environments. Other customers can add video analytics support to enable new services like augmented reality, gesture recognition and advanced safety capabilities in cars. This transformation in vision processing and neural net software are opportunities for us to expand our footprint and content in smartphones, drones, consumer cameras, surveillance, automotive ADAS and industrial IoT applications. Beyond vision, neural networks are increasingly being deployed for a wide range of markets in order to make devices smarter. These markets include IoT, smartphones, surveillance, automotive, robotics, medical and industrial. To address this significant and lucrative opportunity, we recently announced CEVA-NeuProa family of AI processors for deep learning at the edge. These self-contained AI processors are the first non-DSP processors ever developed by CEVA and bring the power of deep learning to the device, without relying on connectivity to the cloud. We believe this market opportunity for AI at the edge is on top of our existing product lines and represents new licensing and royalty drivers for the company in the coming years. During the first nine months of 2018, we signed three leading customers for our CEVA-NeuPro AI processors targeting the ADAS, surveillance, and consumer camera markets. As a result of our diversification strategy beyond baseband for handsets and our progress in addressing those new markets under the IoT umbrella, we expect significant growth in royalty revenues derived from non-handset baseband applications over the next few years due to a combination of higher unit shipments of Bluetooth and other connectivity products that bear lower ASPs, along with higher ASPs driven by base station and vision products. Notwithstanding the various growth opportunities we have outlined above, our business operates in a highly competitive and cyclical environment. The maintenance of our competitive position and our future growth are dependent on our ability to adapt to ever-changing technologies, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and the trend towards IoT, handset baseband, connectivity, and voice, audio and video convergence in the markets that we operate. Also, our business relies significantly on revenues derived from a limited number of customers. The discontinuation of product lines or market sectors that incorporate our technology by our significant customers or a change in direction of their business and our inability to adapt our technology to their new business needs could have material negative implications for our future royalty revenues. Moreover, competition has historically increased pricing pressures for our products and decreased our average selling prices. Royalty payments under our existing license agreements also could be lower than currently anticipated for a variety of reasons, including decreased royalty rates triggered by larger volume shipments, lower royalty rates negotiated with customers due to competitive pressure or consolidation among our customers. Some of our competitors have reduced their licensing and royalty fees to attract customers and expand their market share. In order to penetrate new markets and maintain our market share with our existing products, we may need 25 Table of Contents to offer our products in the future at lower prices which may result in lower profits. In addition, our future growth is dependent not only on the continued success of our existing products but also the successful introduction of new products, which requires the dedication of resources into research and development which in turn may increase our operating expenses. Furthermore, since our products are incorporated into end products of our OEM and semiconductor customers, our business is very dependent on their ability to achieve market acceptance of their end products in the handset and consumer electronic markets, which are similarly very competitive. In addition, macroeconomic trends may significantly affect our operating results. For example, consolidation among our customers may negatively affect our revenue source, increase our existing customers negotiation leverage and make us more dependent on a limited number of customers. Also, since we continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from the handset baseband market, any negative trends in that market would adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries remain volatile, which makes it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast financial results and plan for future business activities. Our license arrangements have not historically provided for substantial ongoing license payments so revenue recognized from licensing arrangements vary significantly from period to period, depending on the number and size of deals closed during a quarter, and is difficult to predict. Moreover, our royalty revenues are based on the sales of products incorporating semiconductor or other products of our customers, and as a result we do not have direct access to information that will help us anticipate the timing and amount of future royalties. We have very little visibility into the timetable of product shipments incorporating our technology by our customers. As a result, our past operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $21.4 and $56.5 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, representing a decrease of 11% and 14%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2017. For the third quarter of 2018, the decrease is due to lower licensing and related revenue in comparison to unusually high revenue levels reached in the third quarter of 2017. For the first nine months of 2018, the decrease is due to the reasons explained below for decreases in both licensing and related revenue and royalty revenue. Five largest customers accounted for 64% and 53% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to 75% and 59% for the comparable periods in 2017. Two customers accounted for 26% and 16% of our total revenues for the third quarter of 2018, as compared to four customers that accounted for 21%, 20%, 18% and 12% of our total revenues for the third quarter of 2017. Three customers accounted for 16%, 16% and 12% of our total revenues for the first nine months of 2018, as compared to two customers that accounted for 22% and 17% of our total revenues for the first nine months of 2017. Sales to Spreadtrum represented 16% of our total revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, as compared to 20% and 22% for the comparable period in 2017. Generally, the identity of our other customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, three royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, and collectively represented 80% and 77% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively. Two royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, and collectively represented 68% and 74% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. The following table sets forth the products and services as percentages of our total revenues for each of the periods set forth below: Nine months 2018 Nine months 2017 Third Quarter 2018 Third Quarter 2017 DSP products (DSP cores and platforms): Baseband for handset and other devices 58 % 63 % 62 % 73 % Other non-baseband (AI, audio/sound, imaging and vision) 17 % 24 % 9 % 16 % Connectivity products (Bluetooth, WiFi and SATA/SAS) 25 % 13 % 29 % 11 % We expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues for 2018 from the above products and services. Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $9.8 million and $29.9 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, representing a decrease of 30% and 12%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2017, primarily resulting from a decrease in the base station related licensing deals due to the timing and introduction of newer industry standards, as 26 Table of Contents well as a decrease in our vision portfolio licensing deals. The decrease was offset by higher licensing and related revenue we generated for our short range connectivity and cellular technologies with more adoption of the newer BT5 standard, especially revenues associated within the IoT market for both periods, as well as higher revenues from our traditional handset baseband market for the first nine months of 2018. Licensing and related revenues accounted for 46% and 53% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to 58% and 51% for the comparable periods of 2017. Overall, we perceive a healthy demand for our products in the third quarter and first nine months of 2018. During the third quarter of 2018, we concluded thirteen new licensing deals. Four of the agreements were for CEVA DSP cores and platforms, and nine were for CEVA connectivity IPs. All of the agreements were for non-handset baseband applications and four were with first-time customers of CEVA. Customers target markets for the licenses include ADAS, consumer and industrial IoT connectivity, and wireless audio. Geographically, nine of the deals signed were in China, one was in the U.S. and three were in the APAC region, including Japan. Our licensing business is progressing well with a solid pipeline, diverse customer base and target markets. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $11.6 million and $26.6 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, representing an increase of 16% and a decrease of 17%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2017. Royalty revenues accounted for 54% and 47% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to 42% and 49% for the comparable periods of 2017. Our third quarter 2018 royalty revenue came in significantly higher than the first two quarters of the year. The decrease in royalty revenue for the first nine months of 2018 compared to 2017 is mainly due to weakness of one of our large Chinese handset baseband customer in the lower tier smartphone segment partially offset by higher non-handset baseband royalty revenue growth. The wide deployment of our advanced DSP technologies within the latest generation of the worlds most successful smartphone, and the continued growth of shipments from our non-handset baseband customers were the main catalysts for the 56% sequential royalty revenue growth. Under ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , our royalty revenue represents actual or best estimates of customer shipments during the third quarter and first nine months of 2018. Revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2017 were reported under ASC Topic 605, the old revenue recognition standard, where royalty revenue was reported one quarter in arrears. Under ASC Topic 605, our third quarter and first nine months of 2018 royalty revenue was $7.3 million and $24.9 million, respectively, representing a decrease of 27% and 22%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2017. The decrease in royalty revenues as determined under ASC 605 for the comparable periods was mainly due to greater than anticipated weakness of one of our large Chinese handset baseband customer in the lower tier smartphone segment. Our customers reported sales of 263 million and 681 million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, a decrease of 8% and 15%, respectively, from the corresponding periods in 2017 for actual shipments reported. The decrease for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 is mainly due to a stronger than anticipated weakness of one of our large Chinese handset baseband customer in the lower tier smartphone segment, partially offset by the adoption of our technologies in the latest generation of the worlds most successful smartphone, and from continued growth in shipments and revenue from our non-handset baseband customers, increasing 22% over third quarter 2017 actual shipments and reaching a new all-time record high of 98 million devices. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 91% and 87% of our total royalty revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to 87% and 89% for the comparable periods of 2017. Geographic Revenue Analysis Nine months 2018 Nine months 2017 Third Quarter 2018 Third Quarter 2017 (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 6.1 11 % $ 6.1 10 % $ 2.3 10 % $ 1.2 5 % Europe and Middle East (1) $ 11.3 20 % $ 7.5 11 % $ 6.1 29 % $ 1.3 5 % Asia Pacific (2) (3) (4) $ 39.1 69 % $ 52.3 79 % $ 13.0 61 % $ 21.5 90 % (1) Germany $ 8.6 15 % * ) * ) $ 5.6 26 % * ) * ) (2) China $ 23.1 41 % $ 31.0 47 % $ 10.2 48 % $ 15.2 63 % (3) S. Korea $ 7.2 13 % $ 13.9 21 % * ) * ) $ 5.1 21 % (4) Japan $ 6.1 11 % * ) * ) * ) * ) * ) * ) *) Less than 10%. 27 Table of Contents Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues was $2.0 million and $6.0 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to $1.7 million and $5.0 million for the comparable periods of 2017. Cost of revenues accounted for 9% and 11% of our total revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to 7% and 8% for the comparable periods of 2017. The increase for the third quarter of 2018 principally reflected higher salary and related costs, and third party IP costs (associated with the NB-IoT product line), partially offset by lower payments to the Israeli Innovation Authority of the Ministry of Economy and Industry in Israel (the IIA). The increase for the first nine months of 2018 principally reflected higher salary and related costs, higher third party IP costs (associated with the NB-IoT product line) and the amortization of intangible assets related to the purchase of a license of NB-IoT technologies in the first quarter of 2018, partially offset by lower payments to the IIA. Included in cost of revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $155,000 and $480,000, respectively, as compared to $125,000 and $330,000 for the comparable periods of 2017. Gross Margin Gross margin for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 was 91% and 89%, respectively, as compared to 93% and 92% for the comparable periods of 2017. The decrease for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 mainly reflected lower revenues. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $17.3 million and $53.9 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to $16.1 million and $48.2 million for the comparable periods of 2017. The net increase in total operating expenses for the third quarter of 2018 principally reflected lower research grants received from the IIA. The net increase in total operating expenses for the first nine months of 2018 principally reflected higher salary and employee related costs, mainly due to higher headcount and non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Research and Development Expenses, Net Our research and development expenses, net, were $11.9 million and $35.8 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to $10.0 million and $30.4 million for the comparable periods of 2017. The net increase for the third quarter of 2018 principally reflected lower research grants received from the IIA. The net increase for the first nine months of 2018 principally reflected higher salary and employee related costs, mainly due to higher headcount and non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in research and development expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $1,246,000 and $3,874,000, respectively, as compared to $991,000 and $2,834,000 for the comparable periods of 2017. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 56% and 63% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, as compared to 42% and 46% for the comparable periods of 2017. The percentage increase for the comparable periods in 2018 as compared to 2017 is due to the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in research and development expenses in absolute dollars for the comparable periods of 2018 and 2017, and due to lower total revenues for the comparable periods in 2018 as compared to 2017. The number of research and development personnel was 240 at September 30, 2018, compared to 224 at September 30, 2017. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $2.7 million and $9.3 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to $3.1 million and $9.4 million for the comparable periods of 2017. The decrease for the third quarter of 2018 primarily reflected lower salary and employee related costs. The decrease for the first nine months of 2018 primarily reflected lower salary and employee related costs, partially offset by higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $369,000 and $1,246,000, respectively, as compared to $381,000 and $1,040,000 for the comparable periods of 2017. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 13% and 16% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to 13% and 14% for the comparable periods of 2017. The percentage increase for the first nine months of 2018 mainly reflected lower total revenues. The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 33 at September 30, 2018, as compared to 34 at September 30, 2017. 28 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $2.4 million and $8.2 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to $2.7 million and $7.4 million for the comparable periods of 2017. The decrease for the third quarter of 2018 primarily reflected lower professional service fees. The increase for the first nine months of 2018 principally reflected higher salary and related employee costs, mainly due to salary raise, and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by lower professional service fees. Included in general and administrative expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $697,000 and $2,483,000, respectively, as compared to $722,000 and $2,142,000 for the comparable periods of 2017. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 11% and 15% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to 11% for both comparable periods of 2017. The percentage increase for the first nine months of 2018 is due to the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars, and due to lower total revenues for the comparable period in 2018 as compared to 2017. The number of general and administrative personnel was 30 at September 30, 2018, as compared to 26 at September 30, 2017. Amortization of intangible assets Our amortization charges were $0.2 million and $0.7 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to $0.3 million and $0.9 million for the comparable periods of 2017. The charges were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of RivieraWaves in July 2014. As of September 30, 2018, the net amount of intangible assets related to the acquisition of RivieraWaves was $1.0 million. Financial Income, Net (in millions) Nine months 2018 Nine months 2017 Third Quarter 2018 Third Quarter 2017 Financial income, net $ 2.53 $ 2.15 $ 0.83 $ 0.82 of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 2.73 $ 2.20 $ 0.92 $ 0.79 Foreign exchange income (loss) $ (0.20 ) $ (0.05 ) $ (0.09 ) $ 0.03 Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities and foreign exchange movements. The increase in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during the third quarter of 2018 principally reflected higher yields, offset by lower combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held. The increase in interest income and gains, and losses from marketable securities, net, during the first nine months of 2018 principally reflected higher combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held and higher yields. We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. This has resulted in a foreign exchange loss of $0.09 million and $0.20 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to foreign exchange gain of $0.03 million and a foreign exchange loss of $0.05 million for the comparable periods of 2017. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses were $0.4 million and $0.8 million for the third quarter and first nine months of 2018, respectively, as compared to $1.2 million and $1.0 million for the comparable periods of 2017. The decrease for the third quarter of 2018 primarily reflected lower income before taxes on income. The decrease for the first nine months of 2018 primarily reflected lower income before taxes on income, offset by a tax benefit of $1.8 million recorded in the first nine months of 2017 due to the release of a tax provision as a result of the completion of a tax audit in a certain foreign tax jurisdiction. Currently, our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary qualified for a 33.3% tax rate on its profits. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits by virtue of the Approved Enterprise and/or Benefited Enterprise status granted to its eight investment programs, as defined by the Israeli Investment Law. In accordance with the Investment Law, our Israeli subsidiarys first seven investment programs were subject to corporate tax rate of 23% for the first nine months of 2018, and our Israeli subsidiarys eighth investment program was subject to corporate tax rate of 10% for the first nine months of 2018. However, our Israeli subsidiary is eligible for the erosion of tax basis with respect to its first seven investment programs, and this resulted in an increase in the taxable income attributable to the eighth investment program, which was subject to a reduced tax rate of 10% for the first nine months of 2018. The tax benefits under our Israeli subsidiarys active investment programs are scheduled to gradually expire starting in 2020. 29 Table of Contents To maintain our Israeli subsidiarys eligibility for the above tax benefits, it must continue to meet certain conditions under the Investment Law. Should our Israeli subsidiary fail to meet such conditions in the future, these benefits would be cancelled and it would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the standard corporate rate and could be required to refund tax benefits already received, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed into law federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act). The Tax Act provides for significant and wide-ranging changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Broadly, the implications most relevant to the company include: a) a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, with various base erosion rules that may effectively limit the tax deductibility of certain payments made by our U.S. entities to our non-U.S. affiliates and additional limitations on deductions attributable to interest expense; and b) adopting elements of a territorial tax system. To transition into the territorial tax system, the Tax Act included a one-time tax on cumulative retained earnings of U.S.-owned foreign subsidiaries, at a rate of 15.5% for earnings represented by cash or cash equivalents and 8.0% for the balance of such earnings. In connection with our initial analysis of the impact of the Tax Act, and after utilization of existing tax loss carryforwards, we do not expect to have any tax payment. In January 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board released guidance on the accounting for tax on the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provisions of the Tax Act. The GILTI provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. The guidance indicates that either (i) accounting for deferred taxes related to GILTI inclusions, or (ii) treating any taxes on GILTI inclusions as period cost, are both acceptable methods subject to an accounting policy election. In accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, and as we are not yet able to reasonably estimate the effect of the GILTI tax, we have yet to adopt an accounting policy with respect to the GILTI tax. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, fair value of financial instruments, equity-based compensation and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. Except for policy changes in accounting for revenues associated with our adoption of Topic 606 (see Note 2 Revenue Recognition in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1), there have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of September 30, 2018, we had approximately $9.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, $31.6 million in short term bank deposits, $78.8 million in marketable securities, and $47.4 million in long term bank deposits, totaling $167.0 million, as compared to $183.3 million at December 31, 2017. The decrease for the first nine months of 2018 principally reflected a repurchase of 527,212 shares of common stock for an aggregate consideration of approximately $16.7 million. Out of total cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities of $167.0 million, $133.5 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate these funds. The determination of the amount of additional taxes related to the repatriation of these earnings is not practicable, as it may vary based on various factors such as the location of the cash and the effect of regulation in the various jurisdictions from which the cash would be repatriated. 30 Table of Contents During the first nine months of 2018, we invested $37.1 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 54 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $40.0 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of income. We did not recognize any other-than-temporarily-impaired charges on marketable securities during the first nine months of 2018. For more information about our marketable securities, see Notes 4 to the attached Notes to the Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the first nine months of 2018 was $4.1 million and consisted of net loss of $1.7 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $11.7 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.9 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $2.9 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $8.0 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.6 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The decrease in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.8 million (mainly as a result of an increase in French research tax credits which is generally refunded every three years, and an increase in withholding tax assets which can be utilized in the fourth quarter of 2018 and in future years), an increase in accrued interest on bank deposits of $0.6 million, an increase in deferred taxes, net of $0.9 million, a decrease in deferred revenues of $0.8 million, a decrease in accrued expenses and other payables of $0.8 million, and a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $1.3 million, partially offset by a decrease in trade receivables and accrued revenues of $1.7 million and an increase in trade payables of $0.6 million. Cash provided by operating activities for the first nine months of 2017 was $17.7 million and consisted of net income of $13.9 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $9.6 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.8 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $2.4 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $6.3 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.9 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The decrease in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $2.6 million (mainly as a result of an increase in French research tax credits which is generally refunded every three years), an increase in deferred tax assets, net, of $0.7 million, a decrease of deferred revenues of $2.0 million, a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $1.5 million and a decrease in income taxes payable of $1.5 million (mainly due to a release of a tax provision as a result of the completion of a tax audit in a certain foreign tax jurisdiction), partially offset by a decrease in trade receivables of $2.2 million and an increase in accrued expenses and other payables of $0.4 million. Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from R&D government grants and French research tax credits, and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first nine months of 2018 was $2.0 million, compared to $20.2 million of net cash used in investing activities for the comparable period of 2017. We had a cash outflow of $15.5 million and a cash inflow of $17.9 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first nine months of 2018, as compared to a cash outflow of $36.5 million and a cash inflow of $23.3 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first nine months of 2017. For the first nine months of 2018, we had net proceeds of $0.5 million from bank deposits, as compared to net investment of $3.7 million in bank deposits for the comparable period of 2017. We had a cash outflow of $2.9 million and $3.3 million during the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively, from purchase of property and equipment. For the first nine months of 2018, we had a cash outflow of $2.0 million from the purchase of a license of NB-IoT technologies. 31 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the first nine months of 2018 was $14.5 million, as compared to $6.9 million of net cash provided by financing activities for the comparable period of 2017. The decrease is due to the use of cash for share repurchases and less proceeds received from the exercise of stock-based awards, both as set forth below. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock which was further extended collectively by an additional five million shares in 2010, 2013 and 2014. In May 2018, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 700,000 shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. During the first nine months of 2018, we repurchased 527,212 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $31.76 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $16.7 million. We did not repurchase any shares of common stock during the first nine months of 2017. As of September 30, 2018, we have 483,844 shares available for repurchase. During the first nine months of 2018, we received $2.2 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $6.9 million received for the comparable period of 2017. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk FactorsWe may seek to expand our business in ways that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. for more detailed information.