Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of CEVA, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Headquartered in Mountain View, California, CEVA is the leading licensor of wireless connectivity and smart sensing technologies. We offer digital signal processors, AI processors, wireless platforms and complementary software for sensor fusion, image enhancement, computer vision, voice input and artificial intelligence, all of which are key enabling technologies for a smarter, connected world. We partner with leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies worldwide to create power-efficient, intelligent and connected devices for a range of end markets, including mobile, consumer, automotive, industrial and Internet of Things (IoT). Our ultra-low-power IPs include comprehensive DSP-based platforms and software that target smart sensing and connectivity devices. Our smart sensing portfolio includes advanced image processing and computer vision, AI for camera-enabled devices, audio, voice input and voice recognition technologies, AI for microphone-enabled devices, and Hillcrest Labs sensor processing and fusion for IMU and environmental sensor-enabled devices. Our connectivity portfolio includes 5G mobile broadband platforms for handsets, base station RAN, NB-IoT for low bit rate cellular, Bluetooth and WiFi technologies. Our technologies are licensed to leading semiconductor and OEM companies throughout the world. These companies embed our IP into application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and into application-specific standard products (ASSPs) that they manufacture, market and sell to wireless, consumer, automotive and IoT companies. We believe that our licensing business is healthy with a diverse customer base and a myriad of target markets. Our state-of-the-art technology has shipped in more than 10 billion chips to date for a wide range of diverse end markets. Every second, thirty devices sold worldwide are powered by CEVA. We believe the adoption of our wireless connectivity and smart sensing products beyond our incumbency in the handset baseband market continues to progress. As a testament to this trend, during the second quarter of 2019, we concluded nine licensing deals, all of which are for non-cellular handset baseband applications. Based on shipment data or our best estimates of the shipment data for the second quarter of 2019, shipments of CEVA-powered non-cellular baseband products grew 8% year-over-year to 95 million units. This data is indicative of the continued traction our non-baseband customers are gaining with our signal processing IPs. In July 2019, we expanded our smart sensing product portfolio and market reach with two strategic transactions. We acquired the Hillcrest Laboratories, Inc. (Hillcrest Labs) business from InterDigital, Inc. (InterDigital) for $11 million in cash. Hillcrest Labs is a leading global supplier of software and components for sensor processing in consumer and IoT devices. We also formed a strategic partnership and made a $10 million technology investment in Immervision, Inc. (Immervision). Immervision is a developer and licensor of wide-angle lenses and image processing technologies. Through this technology investment, we secured exclusive licensing rights to Immervisions patented image processing and sensor fusion software portfolio for wide-angle cameras, which are broadly used in surveillance, smartphone, automotive, robotics and consumer applications. These two strategic deals will enable us to further expand our product offerings and customer reach and allow us to move up the value chain and create tighter relationships with semiconductor companies and OEMs. We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: CEVA is firmly established in the largest space in the semiconductor industry baseband for mobile handsets. Our customer base maintains a strong industry presence in the handset space, in particular in premium-tier and low-tier LTE smartphones and 2G feature phones. The royalty we derive from high-end smartphones is higher on average than that of mid and low-tier smartphones due to more DSP content in high end premier smartphones that bear a higher royalty average selling price (ASP). Looking ahead, our advanced DSPs and 5G platform for mobile broadband put us in a strong position to power 5G baseband for base station, smartphones, fixed wireless and a range of machine to machine devices that will appear in cars, smart cities and industrial products. Incorporating a range of DSPs and processors, including an AI processor dedicated to improving 5G processing efficiency, we believe our CEVA-PentaG is the most advanced cellular baseband IP in the industry today. 25 Our specialization and competitive edge in signal processing platforms for 5G base station RAN and handsets put us in a strong position to capitalize on the emergence of 5G to address mass market adoption and benefit from new 5G usage models, such as fixed wireless access, remote radio heads, cellular backhaul, small cells, automotive, industrial and other machine to machine devices. In the first half of 2019, we signed three 5G-related deals. Our broad Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT IPs allow us to expand further into IoT applications and substantially increase our overall addressable market. In the first half of 2019, we signed eleven deals. Our addressable market size for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT is expected to be more than 9 billion devices annually by 2022 based on ABI Research and Ericsson Mobility Reports. The growing market potential for voice assisted devices, as voice is becoming a primary user interface for IoT applications, including handsets, Bluetooth earbuds, automotive, smart home and consumer devices, offers an additional growth segment for us. To better address this market, we recently introduced our WhisPro speech recognition technology and ClearVox voice input software that are offered in conjunction with our audio/voice DSPs. These highly-integrated platforms, plus our proven track record in audio/voice processing with more than 6 billion audio chips shipped to date, put us in a strong position to power audio and voice roadmaps across this new range of addressable end markets. Our CEVA-XM4 and CEVA-XM6 imaging and vision platforms and deep learning capabilities provide highly compelling offerings for any camera-enabled device such as smartphones, automotive safety (ADAS), autonomous driving (AD), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), drones, and signage. Per research from Yole Dvelopement, camera-enabled devices incorporating computer vision and AI are expected to exceed 1 billion units by 2022. We have already signed more than fifty licensing agreements for our imaging and vision DSPs across those markets, where our customers can add camera-related enhancements such as smarter autofocus, better picture using super resolution algorithms, and better image capture in low-light environments. Other customers can add video analytics support to enable new services like augmented reality, gesture recognition and advanced safety capabilities in cars. This transformation in vision processing and neural net software are opportunities for us to expand our footprint and content in smartphones, drones, consumer cameras, surveillance, automotive ADAS and industrial IoT applications. Furthermore, our recent technology investment in Immervision adds an advanced portfolio of patented wide-angle image processing software to our product offerings for intelligent vision. This includes real-time adaptive de-warping, stitching, image color and contrast enhancement, electronic image stabilization and Data-in-Picture proprietary technology, which integrate within each video frame fused sensory data, such as that offered by Hillcrest Labs. We believe the addition of these technologies augments our CEVA-XM4 and CAVA-XM6 DSPs and are value-adds for our customers. Neural networks are increasingly being deployed for a wide range of markets in order to make devices smarter. These markets include IoT, smartphones, surveillance, automotive, robotics, medical and industrial. To address this significant and lucrative opportunity, we introduced NeuPro - a family of AI processors for deep learning at the edge. These self-contained AI processors bring the power of deep learning to the device, without relying on connectivity to the cloud. We believe this market opportunity for AI at the edge is on top of our existing product lines and represents new licensing and royalty drivers for the company in the coming years. In the first quarter of 2019, we concluded an agreement with one of the worlds leading automotive OEMs for our NeuPro AI processors targeting autonomous driving. Our recent acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs sensor fusion business from InterDigital allows us to address an important technology for smart sensing in addition to our existing portfolio for camera-based computer vision and AI processing, and microphone-based sound processing. MEMS-based inertial and environmental sensors are used in an increasing number of devices, including smartphones, laptops, tablets, wireless earbuds, TVs and remote controls, AR and VR headsets, drones, robots and many other consumer and industrial devices. Hillcrest Labs innovative and proven MotionEngine software supports a broad range of merchant sensor chips and is licensed to OEMs and semiconductor companies that can run the software on CEVA DSPs or a variety of RISC CPUs. The MotionEngine software expands and complements CEVAs smart sensing technology. Hillcrest Labs technology has already shipped in more than 100 million devices, indicative of its market traction and excellence. As a result, our licensees can now benefit from our capabilities as a complete, one-stop-shop for processing all classes and types of sensors. As a result of our diversification strategy beyond baseband for handsets and our progress in addressing those new markets under the IoT umbrella, we expect significant growth in royalty revenues derived from non-handset baseband applications over the next few years, which will be composed of a range of different products at different royalty ASPs spanning from high volume Bluetooth to high value base station RAN. The royalty ASP of our other products will be in between these edges. 26 At our first investor and analyst day held on January 14, 2019 in New York City, we presented our anticipated financial metrics for year 2022. We forecasted that our licensing revenue in 2022 will grow approximately 10% to 20% from the 2018 levels, our royalty revenue will be approximately two times the 2018 levels, and our non-GAAP net income will be approximately three times the 2018 levels. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $18.4 million and $35.4 million for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, representing an increase of 5% and 1%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2018. For the second quarter and first half of 2019, the increase was principally due to higher licensing and related revenues in comparison to the corresponding periods in 2018. Five largest customers accounted for 55% and 50% of our total revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to 62% and 53% for the comparable periods in 2018. Two customers accounted for 14% and 17% of our total revenues for the second quarter of 2019, as compared to three customers that accounted for 16%, 17% and 16% of our total revenues for the second quarter of 2018. Two customers accounted for 17% and 15% of our total revenues for the first half of 2019, as compared to three customers that accounted for 11%, 16% and 15% of our total revenues for the first half of 2018. Sales to Spreadtrum represented 17% and 15% of our total revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to 17% and 16% for the comparable periods in 2018. Generally, the identity of our other customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, three royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for both the second quarter and first half of 2019, and collectively represented 76% and 73% of our total royalty revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively. Three royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for both the second quarter and first half of 2018, and collectively represented 78% and 76% of our total royalty revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2018, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. Starting on January 1, 2019, certain amounts in the prior years financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation. Amounts under connectivity products classification are associated with all baseband for handsets (2G, 3G, 4G and 5G) and others (base station RAN, mmwave small cells and cellular V2X), Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, NB-IoT and SATA/SAS revenues. All of the rest of products, namely AI, audio/sound/speech, computer vision and advanced imaging products, have been reclassified under smart sensing products. Such reclassification has no effect on stockholders equity or net income as previously reported. The following table sets forth the products and services as percentages of our total revenues for each of the periods set forth below: First Half 2019 First Half 201 8 Second Quarter 2019 Second Quarter 2018 Connectivity products 77 % 78 % 82 % 81 % Smart sensing products 23 % 22 % 18 % 19 % We expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues for 2019 from the above products and services. Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $10.8 million and $21.8 million for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, representing both an increase of 8%, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2018. The increase in licensing and related revenues for the second quarter of 2019 was due to an increase in connectivity products licensing activities, and an increase in licensing and related revenues for the first half of 2019 was due to an increase in both connectivity products, as well as the smart sensing products licensing activities for a broad range of deals signed in non-handset markets. Such new deals included cellular IoT, sound and Bluetooth for wireless earbuds, AI and computer vision for consumer cameras, Wi-Fi access points, strategic deals for autonomous driving, 5G applications for different market use cases like base station RAN, mmwave small cells and cellular V2X. In the first six months of 2019, we signed a total of seventeen deals by capitalizing on a healthy design environment, in particular in the U.S., China and Japan, and on our technology excellence in wireless connectivity and smart sensing, enabling us to maintain a robust licensing pipeline. 27 Licensing and related revenues accounted for 59% and 62% of our total revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to 57% for both the comparable periods of 2018. Overall, we perceive a healthy demand for our products in the second quarter of 2019. During the second quarter of 2019, we concluded nine new licensing deals, three were on smart sensing products and six were for connectivity products with overall four first time customers. Geographically, three of the deals signed were in China, two were in the U.S., and four were in the APAC region, including Japan. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $7.6 million and $13.6 million for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, representing an increase of 2% and a decrease of 9%, respectively, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2018. Royalty revenues accounted for 41% and 38% of our total revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to 43% for both comparable periods of 2018. The slight increase in royalty revenues for the second quarter of 2019 and the decrease in royalty revenues for the first half of 2019 mainly reflected a decrease in smartphone handset shipments due to market softness and excess channel inventory of our customers, partially offset by higher shipments of non-handset baseband products. We expect a substantial increase in royalties in the second half of the year, starting with more than a 60% sequential increase for the third quarter of 2019. This includes the initial contribution from Hillcrest Labs and should account for one of the highest royalty revenue quarters in the companys history. Our customers reported sales of 217 million and 392 million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, a decrease of 2% and 6% from the corresponding periods in 2018 for actual shipments reported. The decreases are due to the same reasons as set forth above for the decrease in royalty revenues. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 85% and 83% of our total royalty revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to 83% and 84% for the comparable periods of 2018. Geographic Revenue Analysis First Half 2019 First Half 2018 Second Quarter 2019 Second Quarter 2018 (in millions, except percentages) (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 3.9 11 % $ 3.8 11 % $ 2.1 12 % $ 2.1 12 % Europe and Middle East (1) $ 6.3 18 % $ 5.2 15 % $ 3.0 16 % $ 2.7 16 % Asia Pacific (2) (3) (4) $ 25.1 71 % $ 26.1 74 % $ 13.3 72 % $ 12.7 72 % (1) Germany $ 5.2 15 % *) *) $ 2.6 14 % $ 1.9 11 % (2) China $ 16.5 47 % $ 12.9 37 % $ 9.3 51 % $ 6.8 39 % (3) S. Korea *) *) $ 5.7 16 % *) *) $ 2.9 16 % (4) Japan $ 4.8 14 % $ 5.1 15 % $ 2.2 12 % $ 2.5 14 % *) Less than 10%. Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues was $2.5 million and $4.5 million for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to $2.0 million and $4.0 million for the comparable periods of 2018. Cost of revenues accounted for 14% and 13% of our total revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to 11% for both the comparable periods of 2018. The increase for the second quarter of 2019 principally reflected higher customization work for our licensees and higher third-party IP costs (associated with the NB-IoT product line). The increase for the first half of 2019 principally reflected higher customization work for our licensees. Included in cost of revenues for the second quarter and first half of 2019 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $160,000 and $296,000, respectively, as compared to $168,000 and $325,000 for the comparable periods of 2018. We anticipate that our cost of revenues will increase in 2019 as compared to 2018, partially due to higher expenses of up to $2 million for engineering customization-related expenses that will be allocated from our research and developments costs to cost of revenues on a 5G-related license deal executed in 2018, as well as the addition of the expenses of the Hillcrest Labs business starting in the third quarter of 2019. 28 Gross Margin Gross margin for the second quarter and first half of 2019 was 86% and 87%, respectively, as compared to 89% for both comparable periods of 2018. The decrease for both the second quarter and first half of 2019 mainly reflected higher cost of revenues as set forth above. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $18.1 million and 36.0 million for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to $18.2 million and $36.7 million for the comparable periods of 2018. The net decrease in total operating expenses for both the second quarter and first half of 2019 principally reflected higher research grants received (mainly from the Israeli Innovation Authority of the Ministry of Economy and Industry in Israel (the IIA)), partially offset by higher salary and employee-related costs, mainly due to higher headcount. We expect that as a result of the acquisition of the Hillcrest Labs business in July 2019 that our operating expenses will include, starting from the third quarter of 2019, the ongoing Hillcrest Labs expenses, which are expected to be approximately an additional $1.5 million per quarter, which expenses exclude amortizations as the final purchase price allocation for the acquisition has not been determined as of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Research and Development Expenses, Net Our research and development expenses, net, were $12.4 million and $24.7 million for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to $11.8 million and $23.9 million for the comparable periods of 2018. The net increase for both the second quarter and first half of 2019 principally reflected higher salary and employee-related costs, mainly due to higher headcount, partially offset by higher research grants received, mainly from the IIA. Included in research and development expenses for the second quarter and first half of 2019 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $1,458,000 and $2,820,000, respectively, as compared to $1,359,000 and $2,628,000 for the comparable periods of 2018. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 67% and 70% for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to 68% for both the comparable periods of 2018. The percentage decrease for the second quarter of 2019, as compared to the comparable period of 2018, is due to higher total revenues for the second quarter of 2019, as compared to the comparable period of 2018, offset by the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in research and development expenses in absolute dollars for the comparable periods of 2019 and 2018. The percentage increase for the first half of 2019 as compared to the comparable period of 2018 is due to the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in research and development expenses in absolute dollars for the comparable periods of 2019 and 2018. The number of research and development personnel was 267 at June 30, 2019, as compared to 236 at June 30, 2018. We anticipate that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in 2019. With our newly announced products, the new Hillcrest Labs business and continued momentum with our existing licensing business, we will continue to innovate and reinforce our leadership, but with disciplined investments in research and development. The increase will be approximately $5 million, mainly associated with investments in headcount, employee-related costs and EDA tools. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $3.0 million and $6.0 million for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to $3.4 million and $6.6 million for the comparable periods of 2018. The decrease for the second quarter of 2019 primarily reflected lower marketing and trade shows activities. The decrease for the first half of 2019 primarily reflected lower marketing and trade shows activities, lower salary and employee-related costs and lower non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the second quarter and first half of 2019 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $394,000 and $750,000, respectively, as compared to $423,000 and $877,000 for the comparable periods of 2018. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 16% and 17% for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to 19% for both comparable periods of 2018. The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 32 at June 30, 2019, as compared to 34 at June 30, 2018. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $2.5 million and $4.9 million for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to $2.8 million and $5.8 million for the comparable periods of 2018. The decrease for the second quarter of 2019 primarily reflected lower non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. The decrease for the first half of 2019 primarily reflected lower salary and employee-related costs as well as lower non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in general and administrative expenses for the second quarter and first half of 2019 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $667,000 and $1,229,000, as compared to $895,000 and $1,786,000 for the comparable periods of 2018. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 14% for both the second quarter and first half of 2019, as compared to 16% and 17% for comparable periods of 2018. The percentage decrease for both the second quarter and first half of 2019 is due to the same reasons as set forth above for the decrease in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars. 29 The number of general and administrative personnel was 32 at June 30, 2019, as compared to 30 at June 30, 2018. Amortization of intangible assets Our amortization charges were $0.2 million and $0.4 for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to $0.1 million and $0.5 million for the comparable periods of 2018. The charges were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of RivieraWaves in July 2014. As of June 30, 2019, the net amount of intangible assets related to the acquisition of RivieraWaves was $0.4 million. Financial Income, Net (in millions) First Half 201 9 First Half 201 8 Second Quarter 201 9 Second Quarter 201 8 Financial income, net $ 1.70 $ 1.70 $ 0.90 $ 0.78 of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 1.90 $ 1.81 $ 0.97 $ 0.94 Foreign exchange loss $ (0.20 ) $ (0.11 ) $ (0.07 ) $ (0.16 ) Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities and foreign exchange movements. The increase in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during both the second quarter and first half of 2019 principally reflected higher yields, offset by lower combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held. We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. This has resulted in a foreign exchange loss of $0.07 million and $0.20 million for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to foreign exchange loss of $0.16 million and $0.11 million for the comparable periods of 2018. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses were $0.2 million and $0.4 million for the second quarter and first half of 2019, respectively, as compared to income tax expenses of $0.2 million and $0.4 million for the comparable periods of 2018. Currently, our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary qualified for a 31.0% tax rate on its profits, with the first 500,000 of taxable profit being subject to a reduced 28% rate. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits by virtue of the Approved Enterprise and/or Benefited Enterprise status granted to its eight investment programs, as defined by the Israeli Investment Law. In accordance with the Investment Law, our Israeli subsidiarys first seven investment programs were subject to corporate tax rate of 23% for the first six months of 2019, and our Israeli subsidiarys eighth investment program was subject to corporate tax rate of 10% for the first six months of 2019. However, our Israeli subsidiary is eligible for the erosion of tax basis with respect to its first seven investment programs, and this resulted in an increase in the taxable income attributable to the eighth investment program, which was subject to a reduced tax rate of 10% for the first six months of 2019. The tax benefits under our Israeli subsidiarys active investment programs are scheduled to gradually expire starting in 2020. To maintain our Israeli subsidiarys eligibility for the above tax benefits, it must continue to meet certain conditions under the Investment Law. Should our Israeli subsidiary fail to meet such conditions in the future, these benefits would be cancelled and it would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the standard corporate rate and could be required to refund tax benefits already received, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. 30 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed into law federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act). The Tax Act provides for significant and wide-ranging changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Broadly, the implications most relevant to us include: a) a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, with various base erosion rules that may effectively limit the tax deductibility of certain payments made by our U.S. entities to our non-U.S. affiliates and additional limitations on deductions attributable to interest expense; and b) adopting elements of a territorial tax system. To transition into the territorial tax system, the Tax Act included a one-time tax on cumulative retained earnings of U.S.-owned foreign subsidiaries, at a rate of 15.5% for earnings represented by cash or cash equivalents, and 8.0% for the balance of such earnings. In connection with our completed analysis of the impact of the Tax Act, and after utilization of existing tax loss carryforwards and foreign tax credit carryforwards, we did not incur a tax payment. In January 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board released guidance on the accounting for taxes on the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provisions of the Tax Act. The GILTI provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. The guidance indicates that either (i) accounting for deferred taxes relating to GILTI inclusions, or (ii) treating any taxes on GILTI inclusions as period cost, are both acceptable methods subject to an accounting policy election. We have elected to treat the GILTI tax as a period expense rather than provide U.S. deferred taxes on foreign temporary differences that are expected to generate GILTI income when they reverse in future years. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, fair value of financial instruments, equity-based compensation and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on March 4, 2019, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. Except for policy changes in accounting for leases associated with our adoption of Topic 842 (see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies- Leases in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1), there have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of June 30, 2019, we had approximately $24.5 million in cash and cash equivalents, $50.4 million in short term bank deposits, $76.1 million in marketable securities, and $14.7 million in long term bank deposits, totaling $165.7 million, as compared to $167.7 million at December 31, 2018. The decrease for the first half of 2019 principally reflected funds used to repurchase 194,316 shares of common stock for an aggregate consideration of approximately $4.9 million, partially offset by cash provided by operations and cash proceeds from exercise of stock-based awards. Out of total cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities of $165.7 million, $136.1 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate these funds. The determination of the amount of additional taxes related to the repatriation of these earnings is not practicable, as it may vary based on various factors such as the location of the cash and the effect of regulation in the various jurisdictions from which the cash would be repatriated. During the first half of 2019, we invested $10.4 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 60 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $16.4 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of income (loss). We did not recognize any other-than-temporarily-impaired charges on marketable securities during the first half of 2019. For more information about our marketable securities, see Notes 5 to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. 31 Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the first half of 2019 was $1.3 million and consisted of net loss of $3.8 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $7.6 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $2.5 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $2.0 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $5.1 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.3 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The decrease in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.4 million (mainly as a result of payment of a yearly design tool subscription), an increase in accrued interest on bank deposits of $0.7 million, an increase in deferred taxes, net of $0.7 million, a decrease in deferred revenues of $1.2 million and a decrease in payroll and related benefits of $0.8 million, partially offset by a decrease in trade receivables of $4.1 million (mainly as a result of a decrease in unbilled receivables associated with royalties). Cash provided by operating activities for the first half of 2018 was $3.8 million and consisted of net loss of $4.3 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $8.0 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.1 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $1.8 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $5.6 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.4 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in trade receivables of $7.7 million, partially offset by an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.9 million, a decrease in deferred revenues of $1.7 million and a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $1.3 million. Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from research and development government grants and French research tax credits, and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for the first half of 2019 was $4.7 million, compared to $5.4 million of net cash used in investing activities for the comparable period of 2018. We had a cash outflow of $5.0 million and a cash inflow of $7.3 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first half of 2019, as compared to a cash outflow of $13.8 million and a cash inflow of $12.7 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first half of 2018. For the first half of 2019, we had net proceeds of $3.8 million from bank deposits, as compared to net investments of $0.3 million in bank deposits for the comparable period of 2018. We had a cash outflow of $1.4 million and $2.2 million during the first half of 2019 and 2018, respectively, from purchase of property and equipment. For the first half of 2018, we had a cash outflow of $1.7 million from the purchase of a license of NB-IoT technologies. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the first half of 2019 was $3.7 million, as compared to $9.4 million of net cash used in financing activities for the comparable period of 2018. The decrease is due to the use of cash for share repurchases, less proceeds received from the exercise of stock-based awards, both as set forth below. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock which was further extended collectively by an additional five million shares in 2010, 2013 and 2014. In May 2018, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 700,000 shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. During the first half of 2019, we repurchased 194,316 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $25.01 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $4.9 million. During the first half of 2018, we repurchased 311,056 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $33.35 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $10.4 million. As of June 30, 2019, we have 160,864 shares available for repurchase. During the first half of 2019, we received $1.2 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $1.1 million received for the comparable period of 2018. 32 We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk FactorsWe may seek to expand our business in ways that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. for more detailed information. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS In July 2019, we acquired the Hillcrest Labs business from InterDigital. Hillcrest Labs is a leading global supplier of software and components for sensor processing in consumer and IoT devices. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to pay an aggregate of $11 million to purchase the Hillcrest Labs business, as well as non-exclusive rights to certain Hillcrest Labs patents retained by InterDigital, with $10 million paid at closing and the remainder of $1 million held in escrow to satisfy indemnification claims, if any. The final purchase price allocation for the acquisition has not been determined as of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In August 2019, we entered into a strategic partnership agreement with a private company, Immervision, whereby we made a technology investment of $10 million to secure exclusive licensing rights to Immervisions advanced portfolio of patented wide-angle image processing technology and software. The final purchase price allocation for the investment has not been determined as of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In August 2019, we set up a joint venture in China with a minority equity holding of 19.9%. We are in the final stage of incorporating the joint venture and plan to provide services to the semiconductor industry. We agreed to pay $0.2 million for our equity holding.