Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of CEVA, Inc. and its subsidiaries. CEVA is a leading licensor of signal processing IP for a smarter, connected world. We partner with semiconductor companies and OEMs worldwide to create power-efficient, intelligent and connected devices for a range of end markets, including mobile, consumer, automotive, industrial and IoT. Our ultra-low-power IPs for vision, audio, communications and connectivity include comprehensive DSP-based platforms for LTE/LTE-A/5G baseband processing in handsets, infrastructure and machine-to-machine devices, computer vision and computational photography and vision for any camera-enabled devices, as well as audio/voice and ultra-low power always-on/sensing applications for multiple IoT markets. For connectivity, we offer the industrys most widely adopted IPs for Bluetooth (Smart and Smart Ready), Wi-Fi (802.11 b/g/n/ac up to 4x4) and serial storage (SATA and SAS). Our technologies are widely licensed and power many of the worlds leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies. One in three handsets sold worldwide is powered by CEVA. To date, more than 7 billion CEVA-powered devices have shipped, illustrating the strong market deployment of our technology. Our DSPs power many of leading handset OEMs in the world today, including, Coolpad, HTC, Huawei, Intex, Karbonn, Lava, Lenovo, LG, Meizu, Micromax, Samsung, Xiaomi and ZTE, as well as hundreds of local handset manufacturers in China and India. Based on internal data and Strategy Analytics provisional worldwide shipment data, CEVAs worldwide market share of handset baseband chips that incorporate our technologies was approximately 30% of the worldwide shipment volume in 2015. In July 2014, we acquired RivieraWaves SAS (RivieraWaves), a privately-held, French company and a leading provider of wireless connectivity intellectual property for Wi-Fi and Bluetooth technologies. We agreed to pay an aggregate of $18,378,000 to acquire RivieraWaves with $14,678,000 paid at the closing of the acquisition and the remaining amount of $3,700,000 is payable upon the satisfaction of certain milestones (the Contingent Consideration). During 2015, we fully paid the Contingent Consideration. In addition, in connection with the acquisition, we established an employee retention plan for RivieraWaves employees at an expense of approximately $3,400,000, payable on a semi-annual basis for a period of two years after the closing of the acquisition. As of March 31, 2016, we paid $1,934,000 of the employee retention plan expenses. We believe the adoption of our signal processing IP cores and software for smart, connected devices continues to progress. Devices for such markets include smartphones, tablets, smart home appliances, wearables, surveillance, connected car, drones, industrial and medical. During the first quarter of 2016, we concluded eleven licensing deals, three of which were for our imaging and vision DSP, five for our connectivity IPs and three for our other DSP cores, platforms and software. These customers will incorporate our technology into vision processors in smartphones, advanced audio for wireless speakers and sound bars and low power Bluetooth connectivity for hearing aid headsets and a variety of IoT devices. We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: CEVA is firmly established in the largest space in the semiconductor industry baseband for mobile handsets. In particular, our presence in the 3G & LTE smartphone markets continue to grow as our customers targeting those markets are gaining market share at the expense of the incumbents. As a testament to this, in the first quarter of 2016, we reported thirty five million LTE chipsets shipped, which represents half of the entire 2015 LTE shipments in a single quarter. We anticipate our market share will continue to grow. The royalty we derive from smartphones is higher on average than that of feature phones, so we are set to benefit as handset markets around the world continue to transition and shift away from feature phones to smartphones. Our competitive edge in software-defined radio technology for next generation LTE and Wi-Fi technologies in base stations, and the inherent low cost and power performance balance of our technologies, put us in a strong position to simultaneously capitalize on mass market adoption of such technologies and address multiple market sectors, including small cells, macrocells, routers and machine-to-machine. 17 Table of Contents Together with our presence in the baseband market, our acquisition of RivieraWaves allows us to expand further into Internet-of-Things applications. This acquisition substantially increased our overall addressable market to cover all categories of Bluetooth and Wi-Fi connected devices. Our addressable market size is expected to be 35 billion devices by 2020, per recent data from ABI Research. Already, shipments of products incorporating our Bluetooth IP are starting to become sizeable, with more than 34 million Bluetooth chips shipped in the fourth quarter of 2015 by our customers, up 52% year-over-year. The market potential for intelligent audio processing required for IoT applications, including mobile, automotive and consumer devices, offers an additional growth segment for the company. Our proven track record in audio/voice, with more than 5 billion audio chips shipped to date, puts us in a strong position to power audio roadmaps across this new range of addressable end markets. The market potential for vision processing in automotive, mobile, consumer and IoT applications offers another growth segment for the company. Our CEVA-XM4 intelligent vision processor provides a highly compelling product offering for any camera-enabled device such as smartphones, tablets, automotive safety (ADAS), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), drones, and signage. Per ABI Research, camera shipments are expected to exceed 2.7 billion units by 2018. We have already signed more than 20 licensing agreements for our imaging and vision DSPs across these markets, where our customers can add camera-related enhancements such as smarter autofocus, better picture using super resolution algorithms, and better image capture in low-light environments. Other customers can add video analytics support to enable new services like augmented reality, gesture recognition and advanced safety capabilities in cars. This revolution in vision processing is an opportunity for us to expand our footprint in smartphones and further into tablets, drones, surveillance and automotive applications. As a result of our diversification strategy beyond baseband for handsets and our progress in addressing these new markets under the umbrella of the Internet-of-Things, we expect significant growth in our unit shipments for non-handset baseband applications over the next few years, up from approximately 167 million royalty-bearing units annually in 2015 to 700 to 900 million units annually by 2018. This will be in addition to our existing handset baseband business, which we believe will continue to be a significant growth driver for us. Notwithstanding the various growth opportunities we have outlined above, our business operates in a highly competitive and cyclical environment. The maintenance of our competitive position and our future growth are dependent on our ability to adapt to ever-changing technologies, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and the trend towards Internet-of-Things, handset baseband, connectivity, and voice, audio and video convergence in the markets that we operate. Also, our business relies significantly on revenues derived from a limited number of customers. The discontinuation of product lines or market sectors that incorporate our technology by our significant customers or a change in direction of their business and our inability to adapt our technology to their new business needs could have material negative implications for our future royalty revenues. For example, the shift away from feature phones by our customer Intel and the exiting of the handset baseband market by our customers Broadcom and STMicroelectronics have negatively impacted our royalty revenues in 2014. Moreover, competition has historically increased pricing pressures for our products and decreased our average selling prices. Royalty payments under our existing license agreements also could be lower than currently anticipated for a variety of reasons, including decreased royalty rates triggered by larger volume shipments, lower royalty rates negotiated with customers due to competitive pressure or consolidation among our customers. Some of our competitors have reduced their licensing and royalty fees to attract customers and expand their market share. In order to penetrate new markets and maintain our market share with our existing products, we may need to offer our products in the future at lower prices which may result in lower profits. In addition, our future growth is dependent not only on the continued success of our existing products but also the successful introduction of new products, which requires the dedication of resources into research and development which in turn may increase our operating expenses. Furthermore, since our products are incorporated into end products of our OEM and semiconductor customers, our business is very dependent on their ability to achieve market acceptance of their end products in the handset and consumer electronic markets, which are similarly very competitive. In addition, macroeconomic trends may significantly affect our operating results. For example, consolidation among our customers may negatively affect our revenue source, increase our existing customers negotiation leverage and make us more dependent on a limited number of customers. Also, since we derive a significant portion of our revenues from the baseband handset market, any negative trends in that market would adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries remain volatile, which makes it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast financial results and plan for future business activities. Our license arrangements have not 18 Table of Contents historically provided for substantial ongoing license payments so revenue recognized from licensing arrangements vary significantly from period to period, depending on the number and size of deals closed during a quarter, and is difficult to predict. Moreover, our royalty revenues are based on the sales of products incorporating the semiconductors or other products of our customers, and as a result we do not have direct access to information that will help us anticipate the timing and amount of future royalties. We have very little visibility into the timetable of product shipments incorporating our technology by our customers. As a result, our past operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $16.5 million for the first quarter of 2016, representing an increase of 19%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2015. Five largest customers accounted for 65% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to 55% for the comparable period in 2015. Three customers accounted for 24%, 17% and 16% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to two customers that accounted for 25% and 14% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2015. Sales to Spreadtrum represented 24% and 25% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2016 and 2015, respectively. Generally, the identity of our other customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, two royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for both the first quarter of 2016 and 2015, and collectively represented 83% and 69% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2016 and 2015, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. The following table sets forth the products and services as percentages of our total revenues in each of the periods set forth below: First Quarter 2016 First Quarter 2015 DSP products (DSP cores and platforms): Baseband for handset and for other devices 69 % 64 % Other non-baseband (audio, imaging and vision) 21 % 16 % Connectivity products (Bluetooth, WiFi and SATA/SAS) 10 % 20 % We expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues for 2016 from the above products and services. Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $8.6 million for the first quarter of 2016, representing an increase of 10%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2015. The increase in licensing and related revenues for the first quarter of 2016 reflected higher revenues from both handset and non-handset baseband markets and applications. Overall, we continue to experience in 2016, similar to 2015, a strong licensing environment for our products. Licensing and related revenues accounted for 52% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2016, compared to 57% for the comparable period of 2015. During the first quarter of 2016, we concluded 11 new licensing deals. Of the 11 new licensing deals signed during the quarter, three were with a first time customer, and ten were for non-handset baseband applications. Six such deals were for CEVA DSP cores, platforms and software, and five were for CEVA connectivity IPs. Target applications for customer deployment are vision in smartphones, advanced audio for wireless speakers and sound bars and low power Bluetooth connectivity for hearing aid headsets and a variety of IoT devices. Geographically, four of the deals concluded were in the the U.S, three were in Europe and four were in the Asia Pacific region. Our licensing business is progressing in line with our expectations with a good pipeline and diverse customer base and target markets. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $7.9 million for the first quarter of 2016, representing an increase of 31%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2015. Royalty revenues accounted for 48% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to 43% for the comparable period of 2015. The increase in royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2016 reflected exceptional royalty revenue growth from LTE shipments in the cellular baseband space. The growth of LTE shipments powered by our DSPs has accelerated noticeably both in high tier premium phones as well as lower cost LTE smartphones, reaching 35 million devices reported in the first quarter of 2016. 19 Table of Contents Our customers reported sales of 230 million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to 233 million for the comparable period of 2015. Of these volumes, 45 million and 32 million were attributed to non-handset baseband for the first quarter of 2016 and 2015, respectively. This volume increase is attributable to an increase in Bluetooth product shipments (which also bear lower royalty average selling prices than the handset baseband products). Handset baseband-related royalties increased significantly in the first quarter of 2016, as compared to the comparable period in 2015, due to a larger mix of LTE based phones with higher royalty ASPs, even though the overall handset baseband volumes decreased year over year. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 92% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to 87% for the comparable period of 2015. Geographic Revenue Analysis First Quarter 2016 First Quarter 2015 (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 1.7 11 % $ 2.0 14 % Europe and Middle East $ 2.5 15 % $ 1.4 11 % Asia Pacific (1) (2) $ 12.3 74 % $ 10.4 75 % (1) China $ 8.9 54 % $ 7.5 54 % (2) S. Korea $ 2.7 16 % $ *) *) *) Less than 10% Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues were $1.6 million for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to $1.2 million for the comparable period of 2015. Cost of revenues accounted for 10% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to 9% for the comparable period of 2015. The increase for the first quarter of 2016 principally reflected higher customization work for our licensees. Included in cost of revenues for the first quarter of 2016 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $60,000, as compared to $35,000 for the comparable period of 2015. Gross Margin Gross margin for the first quarter of 2016 was 90%, compared to 91% for the comparable period of 2015. The decrease for the first quarter of 2016 mainly reflected higher cost of revenues. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $13.1 million for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to $12.1 million for the comparable period of 2015. The net increase in total operating expenses for the first quarter of 2016 principally reflected higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses and higher project-related expenses. Research and Development Expenses, Net Our research and development expenses, net, were $7.9 million for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to $7.4 million for the comparable period of 2015. The net increase for the first quarter of 2016 principally reflected higher salary and related costs, higher project-related expenses, and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by higher cost allocation to cost of revenues for customization work. Included in research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2016 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $646,000, as compared to $391,000 for the comparable period of 2015. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 48% for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to 53% for the comparable period of 2015. The number of research and development personnel was 187 at March 31, 2016, compared to 182 at March 31, 2015. 20 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $2.8 million for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to $2.4 million for the comparable period of 2015. The net increase for the first quarter of 2016 primarily reflected higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, higher salary costs mainly due to additional number of personnel and higher travel expenses. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the first quarter of 2016 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $247,000, as compared to $79,000 for the comparable period of 2015. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 17% for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to 18% for the comparable period of 2015. The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 35 at March 31, 2016, compared to 30 at March 31, 2015. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $2.0 million for both the first quarter of 2016 and 2015. The net effect for the first quarter of 2016 primarily reflected higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by lower salary and related costs. Included in general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2016 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $521,000, as compared to $344,000 for the comparable period of 2015. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 12% for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to 14% for the comparable period of 2015. The number of general and administrative personnel was 23 at March 31, 2016, compared to 21at March 31, 2015. Amortization of intangible assets Our amortization charges were $0.3 million for both the first quarter of 2016 and 2015. The charges were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of RivieraWaves in July 2014. As of March 31, 2016, the net amount of intangible assets was $3.9 million. Financial Income, Net (in millions) First Quarter 2016 First Quarter 2015 Financial income, net $ 0.44 $ (0.03 ) of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 0.47 $ 0.42 Foreign exchange loss $ (0.03 ) $ (0.40 ) Accretion of Contingent Consideration $ $ (0.05 ) Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities, foreign exchange movements and changes in fair value related to contingent consideration as part of the acquisition of RivieraWaves. The increase in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during the first quarter of 2016, principally reflected higher combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held and higher yields. We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. However, our Euro cash balances increased significantly beyond our ordinary course Euro business liabilities as a result of the acquisition of RivieraWaves in July 2014 because we acquired cash balances of RivieraWaves on hand at the time of the closing of the transaction. This has resulted in an increase in foreign exchange loss during the first quarter of 2015 due to the devaluation of our Euro cash balances as the U.S. dollar strengthened significantly during this period as compared to the Euro. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses were $0.5 million for the first quarter of 2016, as compared to $0.1 million for the comparable period of 2015. The increase for the first quarter of 2016 primarily reflected higher income before taxes on income, as well as lower tax benefit as a result of higher valuation allowance on deferred tax assets of certain foreign corporation. Currently, our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. 21 Table of Contents Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary qualified for a 33.3% tax rate on its profits. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits by virtue of the Approved Enterprise and/or Benefited Enterprise status granted to its eight investment programs, as defined by the Israeli Investment Law. In accordance with the Investment Law, our Israeli subsidiarys first six investment programs were subject to corporate tax rate of 25% for the first quarter of 2016, and our Israeli subsidiarys seventh and eighth investment programs were subject to corporate tax rate of 10% for the first quarter of 2016. However, our Israeli subsidiary received an approval for the erosion of tax basis with respect to its second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth investment programs, and this resulted in an increase in the taxable income attributable to the seventh and eighth investment programs, which were subject to a reduced tax rate of 10% for the first quarter of 2016. The tax benefits under our Israeli subsidiarys active investment programs are scheduled to gradually expire starting in 2017. To maintain our Israeli subsidiarys eligibility for the above tax benefits, it must continue to meet certain conditions under the Investment Law. Should our Israeli subsidiary fail to meet such conditions in the future, these benefits would be cancelled and it would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the standard corporate rate and could be required to refund tax benefits already received, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, fair value of financial instruments, equity-based compensation and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed with the SEC on March 11, 2016, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, 2016, we had approximately $11.3 million in cash and cash equivalents, $40.6 million in short term bank deposits, $54.3 million in marketable securities, and $30.7 million in long term bank deposits, totaling $136.9 million, as compared to $139.3 million at December 31, 2015. The decrease for the first quarter of 2016 principally reflected the repurchase of 180,013 shares of common stock, partially offset by cash proceeds from exercise of stock-based awards . During the first quarter of 2016, we invested $15.4 million of cash in marketable securities with maturities up to 60 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $10.5 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of income. We did not recognize any other-than-temporarily-impaired charges on marketable securities during the first quarter of 2016. For more information about our marketable securities, see Notes 4 to the attached Notes to the Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the first quarter of 2016 was $0.2 million and consisted of net income of $1.8 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $2.3 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $3.9 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $0.6 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $1.5 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.2 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The decrease in cash 22 Table of Contents from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in trade receivables of $2.6 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.5 million, an increase in accrued interest on bank deposits of $0.3 million, an increase in deferred tax assets, net, of $0.4 million, a decrease in deferred revenues of $1.3 million, and a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $0.5 million, offset by an increase in trade payables of $0.7 million, an increase in accrued expenses and other payables of $0.3 million, an increase in income tax payable of $0.5 million and an increase in accrued severance pay, net, of $0.2 million. Cash used in operating activities for the first quarter of 2015 was $0.7 million and consisted of net income of $0.5 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $1.9 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $3.1 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $0.6 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $0.8 million of equity-based compensation expenses, $0.3 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities and $0.2 million of unrealized foreign exchange loss. The decrease in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in trade receivables of $3.0 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.5 million, an increase in deferred tax assets, net, of $0.5 million, and a decrease in accrued expenses and other payables of $0.3 million, partially offset by an increase in trade payables of $0.4 million, an increase in deferred revenues of $0.4 million, an increase in accrued payroll and related benefits of $1.2 million, and an increase in accrued severance pay, net, of $0.2 million. Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from R&D government grants and from French research tax credits and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first quarter of 2016 was $5.3 million, compared to $1.0 million of net cash used in investing activities for the comparable period of 2015. We had a cash outflow of $15.4 million and a cash inflow of $9.4 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first quarter of 2016, as compared to a cash outflow of $3.4 million and a cash inflow of $3.1 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first quarter of 2015. For the first quarter of 2016, we had proceeds of $1.1 million from bank deposits, as compared to net investment of $0.4 million in bank deposits for the comparable period of 2015. We had a cash outflow of $0.4 million during both the first quarter of 2016 and 2015 from purchase of property and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the first quarter of 2016 was $2.5 million, compared to $0.5 million of net cash used in financing activities for the comparable period of 2015. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock which was further extended collectively by an additional five million shares in 2010, 2013 and 2014. During the first quarter of 2016, we repurchased 180,013 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $18.98 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $3.4 million. During the first quarter of 2015, we repurchased 93,903 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $20.41 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $1.7 million. During the first quarter of 2016, we received $0.9 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $4.2 million received for the comparable period of 2015. We had a cash outflow of $2.7 million during the first quarter of 2015 to settle part of the Contingent Consideration in connection with the acquisition of RivieraWaves. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk FactorsWe may seek to expand our business in ways that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. for more detailed information. 23 Table of Contents