Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of CEVA, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Headquartered in Mountain View, California, CEVA is the leading licensor of signal processing platforms and a primary player in artificial intelligence (AI) processors for a smarter, connected world. We partner with leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies worldwide to create power-efficient, intelligent and connected devices for a range of end markets, including mobile, consumer, automotive, industrial and Internet of Things (IoT). Our portfolio includes comprehensive platforms for wireless connectivity products and smart sensing products, including 4G and 5G baseband processing in handsets and base station RAN, highly integrated cellular IoT solutions, industrys most widely adopted IPs for Bluetooth (low energy and dual mode) and Wi-Fi (4/5/6 up to 4x4), DSP platforms incorporating voice input algorithms and software for voice-assisted devices, DSP platforms for advanced imaging and computer vision in any camera-enabled device, and a family of self-contained AI processors that address a wide range of edge applications. Our technologies are licensed to leading semiconductor and OEM companies throughout the world. These companies incorporate our IP into application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard products (ASSPs) that they manufacture, market and sell to wireless, consumer, automotive and IoT companies. We believe that our licensing business is progressing well with strong interest, diverse customer base and a myriad of target markets. Our state-of-the-art technology has shipped in more than 10 billion chips to date for a wide range of diverse end markets. Every second, thirty devices sold worldwide are powered by CEVA. We believe the adoption of our connectivity products and smart sensing products beyond our incumbency in the handset baseband market continues to progress. As a testament to this trend, during the first quarter of 2019, we concluded 8 licensing deals, all of which are for non-cellular handset baseband applications. Of note, one of the deals signed was with a major automotive OEM who has selected our NeuPro AI processor for its autonomous car platform targeting start of production in 2024. We believe this deal is transformational for CEVA, as it positions us as a leader in AI and computer vision processing in level 3 and above autonomous driving. Based on shipment data or our best estimates of the shipment data for the first quarter of 2019, shipments of CEVA-powered non-cellular baseband products grew 16% year-over-year to 86 million units. This data is indicative of the continued traction our non-baseband customers are gaining with our signal processing IPs. We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: CEVA is firmly established in the largest space in the semiconductor industry baseband for mobile handsets. Our customer base maintains a strong industry presence in the handset space, in particular in the low-tier LTE smartphone, and 3G and 2G phone segments that target emerging markets. Our DSPs are also currently included in the worlds most successful smartphone OEM in its present and upcoming LTE-based flagship models. The royalty we derive from high-end smartphones is higher on average than that of mid and low-tier smartphones due to more DSP content in high end premier smartphones that bear a higher royalty average selling price (ASP). Looking ahead, our advanced DSPs and 5G platform for mobile broadband put us in a strong position to power 5G baseband for base station, smartphones, fixed wireless and a range of machine to machine devices that will appear in cars, smart cities and industrial products. Incorporating a range of DSPs and processors, including an AI processor dedicated to improving 5G processing efficiency, we believe our CEVA-PentaG is the most advanced cellular baseband IP in the industry today. Our specialization and competitive edge in signal processing platforms for 5G base stations and handsets put us in a strong position to capitalize on the emergence of 5G to address mass market adoption and benefit from new 5G usage models such as fixed wireless access, remote radio heads, cellular backhaul, small cells, and other machine to machine devices. As a testament to this, we signed three 5G related deals in the first quarter of 2019 targeting new 5G usage models as discussed above. 23 Our broad Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT IPs allow us to expand further into IoT applications and substantially increase our overall addressable market. In the first quarter of 2019, shipments of products incorporating our Bluetooth and Wi-Fi IP grew 15% year-over-year to reach 68 million devices. Our addressable market size for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT is expected to be more than 9 billion devices annually by 2022 based on ABI Research and Ericsson Mobility Report. The growing market potential for voice assisted devices, as voice is becoming a primary user interface for IoT applications, including handsets, Bluetooth earbuds, automotive, smart home and consumer devices, offers an additional growth segment for us. To better address this market, we recently introduced our WhisPro speech recognition technology and ClearVox voice input software that are offered in conjunction with our audio/voice DSPs. These highly-integrated platforms, plus our proven track record in audio/voice processing with more than 6 billion audio chips shipped to date, put us in a strong position to power audio and voice roadmaps across this new range of addressable end markets. Our CEVA-XM4 and CEVA-XM6 imaging and vision platforms and deep learning capabilities provide highly compelling offerings for any camera-enabled device such as smartphones, automotive safety (ADAS), autonomous driving (AD), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), drones, and signage. Per research from Yole Dveloppement, camera-enabled devices incorporating computer vision and AI are expected to exceed 1 billion units by 2022. We have already signed more than fifty licensing agreements for our imaging and vision DSPs across those markets, where our customers can add camera-related enhancements such as smarter autofocus, better picture using super resolution algorithms, and better image capture in low-light environments. Other customers can add video analytics support to enable new services like augmented reality, gesture recognition and advanced safety capabilities in cars. This transformation in vision processing and neural net software are opportunities for us to expand our footprint and content in smartphones, drones, consumer cameras, surveillance, automotive ADAS and industrial IoT applications. Neural networks are increasingly being deployed for a wide range of markets in order to make devices smarter. These markets include IoT, smartphones, surveillance, automotive, robotics, medical and industrial. To address this significant and lucrative opportunity, we introduced NeuPro - a family of AI processors for deep learning at the edge. These self-contained AI processors bring the power of deep learning to the device, without relying on connectivity to the cloud. We believe this market opportunity for AI at the edge is on top of our existing product lines and represents new licensing and royalty drivers for the company in the coming years. In the first quarter, we concluded an agreement with one of the worlds leading automotive OEMs for our NeuPro AI processors targeting the autonomous driving. As a result of our diversification strategy beyond baseband for handsets and our progress in addressing those new markets under the IoT umbrella, we expect significant growth in royalty revenues derived from non-handset baseband applications over the next few years due to a combination of higher unit shipments of Bluetooth and other connectivity products that bear lower ASPs, along with higher ASPs driven by base station and vision products. At our first investor and analyst day held on January 14, 2019 in New York City, we presented our anticipated financial metrics for year 2022. We forecasted that our licensing revenue in 2022 will have grown approximately 10% to 20% from current levels, our royalty revenue will be approximately two times the current levels and our non GAAP net income will be approximately three times the current levels. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $17.0 million for the first quarter of 2019, representing a decrease of 3%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2018. For the first quarter of 2019, the decrease was due to lower royalty revenues in comparison to the corresponding period in 2018. Five largest customers accounted for 63% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to 49% for the comparable period in 2018. Four customers accounted for 21%, 12%, 12% and 10% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to two customers that accounted for 16% and 15% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2018. Sales to Spreadtrum represented 12% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to 16% for the comparable period in 2018. Generally, the identity of our other customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, three royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2019, and collectively represented 70% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2019. Three royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2018, and collectively represented 73% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2018. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. 24 Starting on January 1, 2019, certain amounts in the prior years financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation. Amounts under connectivity products classification are associated with all baseband for handsets (2G, 3G, 4G and 5G) and others (base station RAN, mmwave small cells and cellular V2X), Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, NB-IoT and SATA/SAS revenues. All of the rest of products, namely AI, audio/sound/speech, computer vision and advanced imaging products, have been reclassified under smart sensing products. Such reclassification has no effect on stockholders equity or net income as previously reported. The following table sets forth the products and services as percentages of our total revenues for each of the periods set forth below: First Quarter 2019 First Quarter 2018 Connectivity products 72% 76% Smart sensing products 28% 24% We expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues for 2019 from the above products and services. Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $11.0 million and $10.1 million for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, representing an increase of 9% as compared to the corresponding period in 2018. The increase in licensing and related revenues for the first quarter of 2019 was due to an increase in both the handset and non-handset baseband licensing deals. In non-handset baseband, we signed strategic deals for autonomous driving and three 5G applications for different market use cases like base station RAN, mmwave small cells and cellular V2X. 5G brings key benefits, including 10 times faster speed than 4G and much lower latency. Operators and IT companies will benefit from those 5G capabilities to enable services and use cases such as 4K video streaming, fixed wireless access to displace the more expensive fiber to the home and V2X communications which allows the exchange of location information between cars. CEVA has established customer channels and technologies for 5G and AI that can serve this sizable space. Licensing and related revenues accounted for 65% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to 57% for the comparable period of 2018. Overall, we perceive a healthy demand for our products in the first quarter of 2019. During the first quarter of 2019, we concluded eight new licensing deals, 3 were on smart sensing products and 5 were for connectivity products with overall four first time customers. . Customers target markets for the licenses include AI for autonomous cars, 5G for base station RAN, mmwave small cells and cellular V2X, Bluetooth earbuds, smart speakers and a range of IoT devices. Geographically, three of the deals signed were in China, one was in the U.S., one was in Europe and three were in the APAC region, including Japan. Our licensing business is progressing well with a solid pipeline, diverse customer base and target markets. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $6.0 million for the first quarter of 2019, representing a decrease of 20%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2018. Royalty revenues accounted for 35% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to 43% for the comparable period of 2018. The decrease in royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2019 mainly reflected a decrease in handset shipments due to excess channel inventory of our customers. Our customers reported sales of 175 million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the first quarter of 2019, a decrease of 11% from the corresponding period in 2018 for actual shipments reported. The decrease for the first quarter of 2019 is due to the same reason as set forth above for the decrease in royalty revenues. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 81% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to 85% for the comparable period of 2018. Geographic Revenue Analysis First Quarter 2019 First Quarter 2018 (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 1.8 10 % $ 1.7 10 % Europe and Middle East (1) $ 3.3 20 % $ 2.5 14 % Asia Pacific (2) (3) (4) $ 11.8 70 % $ 13.4 76 % (1) Germany $ 2.6 15 % *) *) (2) China $ 7.2 43 % $ 6.2 35 % (3) S. Korea $ 1.8 10 % $ 2.8 16 % (4) Japan $ 2.6 16 % $ 2.6 15 % *) Less than 10%. 25 Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues were $2.0 million for both the first quarter of 2019 and 2018. Cost of revenues accounted for 12% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to 11% for the comparable period of 2018. The net effect for the first quarter of 2019 principally reflected higher customization work for our licensees, partially offset by lower payments to the Israeli Innovation Authority of the Ministry of Economy and Industry in Israel (the IIA). Included in cost of revenues for the first quarter of 2019 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $136,000, as compared to $157,000 for the comparable period of 2018. We anticipate that our cost of revenues will increase in 2019 as compared to 2018, partially due to higher expenses of over a $1 million for engineering customization related expenses that will be allocated from our research and developments costs to cost of revenue on a 5G-related license deal executed in 2018. Gross Margin Gross margin for the first quarter of 2019 was 88%, as compared to 89% for the comparable period of 2018. The decrease for the first quarter of 2019 mainly reflected lower royalty revenues. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $17.9 million for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to $18.5 million for the comparable period of 2018. The net decrease in total operating expenses for the first quarter of 2019 principally reflected lower non-cash equity-based compensation expenses and higher research grants received, partially offset by higher salary and employee related costs, mainly due to higher headcount. Research and Development Expenses, Net Our research and development expenses, net, were $12.3 million for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to $12.0 million for the comparable period of 2018. The net increase for the first quarter of 2019 principally reflected higher salary and employee related costs, mainly due to higher headcount, partially offset by higher research grants received. Included in research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2019 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $1,362,000, as compared to $1,269,000 for the comparable period of 2018. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 73% for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to 68% for the comparable period of 2018. The percentage increase for the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the comparable period of 2018 is due to the same reasons as set forth above for the increase in research and development expenses in absolute dollars for the comparable periods of 2019 and 2018, and due to lower total revenues for the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the comparable period of 2018. The number of research and development personnel was 265 at March 31, 2019, as compared to 231 at March 31, 2018. We anticipate that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in 2019. With our newly announced products and continued momentum with our existing licensing business, we will continue to innovate and reinforce our leadership, but with disciplined investments in research and developments. The increase will be approximately $4 million, mainly associated with investments in headcount, employee-related costs and EDA tools. 26 Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $3.0 million for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to $3.2 million for the comparable period of 2018. The decrease for the first quarter of 2019 primarily reflected lower salary and employee related costs. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the first quarter of 2019 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $356,000, as compared to $454,000 for the comparable period of 2018. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 18% for both the first quarter of 2019 and 2018. The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 32 at March 31, 2019, as compared to 37 at March 31, 2018. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $2.3 million for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to $3.0 million for the comparable period of 2018. The decrease for the first quarter of 2019 primarily reflected lower salary and employee related costs as well as lower non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2019 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $562,000, as compared to $891,000 for the comparable period of 2018. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 14% for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to 17% for comparable period of 2018. The percentage decrease for the first quarter of 2019 is due to the same reasons as set forth above for the decrease in general and administrative expenses in absolute dollars, and due to lower total revenues for the comparable period in 2019 as compared to 2018. The number of general and administrative personnel was 31 at March 31, 2019, as compared to 27 at March 31, 2018. Amortization of intangible assets Our amortization charges were $0.2 million for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to $0.4 million for the comparable period of 2018. The charges were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of RivieraWaves in July 2014. As of March 31, 2019, the net amount of intangible assets related to the acquisition of RivieraWaves was $0.6 million. Financial Income, Net (in millions) First Quarter 201 9 First Quarter 201 8 Financial income, net $ 0.80 $ 0.93 of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 0.93 $ 0.88 Foreign exchange income (loss) $ (0.13 ) $ 0.05 Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities and foreign exchange movements. The increase in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during the first quarter of 2019 principally reflected higher yields, offset by lower combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held. We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. This has resulted in a foreign exchange loss of $0.13 million for the first quarter of 2019, as compared to foreign exchange gain of $0.05 million for the comparable period of 2018. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses were $0.2 million for both the first quarter of 2019 and 2018. Currently, our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary qualified for a 31.0% tax rate on its profits, with the first 500,000 of taxable profit is being subject to a reduced 28% rate. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits by virtue of the Approved Enterprise and/or Benefited Enterprise status granted to its eight investment programs, as defined by the Israeli Investment Law. In accordance with the Investment Law, our Israeli subsidiarys first seven investment programs were subject to corporate tax rate of 23% for the first three months of 2019, and our Israeli subsidiarys eighth investment program was subject to corporate tax rate of 10% for the first three months of 2019. However, our Israeli subsidiary is eligible for the erosion of tax basis with respect to its first seven investment programs, and this resulted in an increase in the taxable income attributable to the eighth investment program, which was subject to a reduced tax rate of 10% for the first three months of 2019. The tax benefits under our Israeli subsidiarys active investment programs are scheduled to gradually expire starting in 2020. 27 To maintain our Israeli subsidiarys eligibility for the above tax benefits, it must continue to meet certain conditions under the Investment Law. Should our Israeli subsidiary fail to meet such conditions in the future, these benefits would be cancelled and it would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the standard corporate rate and could be required to refund tax benefits already received, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed into law federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act). The Tax Act provides for significant and wide-ranging changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Broadly, the implications most relevant to us include: a) a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, with various base erosion rules that may effectively limit the tax deductibility of certain payments made by our U.S. entities to our non-U.S. affiliates and additional limitations on deductions attributable to interest expense; and b) adopting elements of a territorial tax system. To transition into the territorial tax system, the Tax Act included a one-time tax on cumulative retained earnings of U.S.-owned foreign subsidiaries, at a rate of 15.5% for earnings represented by cash or cash equivalents, and 8.0% for the balance of such earnings. In connection with our completed analysis of the impact of the Tax Act, and after utilization of existing tax loss carryforwards and foreign tax credit carryforwards, we did not incur a tax payment. In January 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board released guidance on the accounting for taxes on the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provisions of the Tax Act. The GILTI provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. The guidance indicates that either (i) accounting for deferred taxes relating to GILTI inclusions, or (ii) treating any taxes on GILTI inclusions as period cost, are both acceptable methods subject to an accounting policy election. We have elected to treat the GILTI tax as a period expense rather than provide U.S. deferred taxes on foreign temporary differences that are expected to generate GILTI income when they reverse in future years. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, fair value of financial instruments, equity-based compensation and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on March 4, 2019, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. Except for policy changes in accounting for leases associated with our adoption of Topic 842 (see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies- Leases in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1), there have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, 2019, we had approximately $21.5 million in cash and cash equivalents, $57.8 million in short term bank deposits, $77.5 million in marketable securities, and $14.5 million in long term bank deposits, totaling $171.3 million, as compared to $167.7 million at December 31, 2018. The increase for the first quarter of 2019 principally reflected cash provided by operations and cash proceeds from exercise of stock-based awards, partially offset by funds used to repurchase 91,303 shares of common stock for an aggregate consideration of approximately $2.5 million. Out of total cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities of $171.3 million, $141.0 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate these funds. The determination of the amount of additional taxes related to the repatriation of these earnings is not practicable, as it may vary based on various factors such as the location of the cash and the effect of regulation in the various jurisdictions from which the cash would be repatriated. 28 During the first three months of 2019, we invested $8.9 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 61 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $5.4 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of income (loss). We did not recognize any other-than-temporarily-impaired charges on marketable securities during the first three months of 2019. For more information about our marketable securities, see Notes 5 to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the first three months of 2019 was $4.7 million and consisted of net loss of $2.3 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $3.7 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $3.3 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $1.0 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $2.4 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.2 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The increase in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in trade receivables of $6.8 million (mainly as a result of a decrease in unbilled receivables associated with royalties) and an increase in accrued payroll and related benefits of $1.4 million, partially offset by an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.1 million (mainly as a result of payment of a yearly design tool subscription), an increase in accrued interest on bank deposits of $0.3 million, an increase in deferred taxes, net of $0.4 million, a decrease in deferred revenues of $0.8 million and a decrease in accrued expenses and other payables of $0.6 million. Cash provided by operating activities for the first three months of 2018 was $1.8 million and consisted of net loss of $2.2 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $3.9 million, and with no changes in operating assets and liabilities, net. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $0.9 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $2.8 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.2 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in trade receivables, partially offset by an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a decrease in accrued expenses and other payables. Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from R&D government grants and French research tax credits, and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first three months of 2019 was $4.1 million, compared to $4.8 million of net cash used in investing activities for the comparable period of 2018. We had a cash outflow of $5.0 million and a cash inflow of $5.4 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first three months of 2019, as compared to a cash outflow of $9.5 million and a cash inflow of $6.0 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first three months of 2018. For the first three months of 2019, we had investment of $3.8 million in bank deposits. We had a cash outflow of $0.6 million and $0.5 million during the first three months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, from purchase of property and equipment. For the first three months of 2018, we had a cash outflow of $0.9 million from the purchase of a license of NB-IoT technologies. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the first three months of 2019 was $1.4 million, as compared to $0.4 million of net cash used in financing activities for the comparable period of 2018. The decrease is due to the use of cash for share repurchases, less proceeds received from the exercise of stock-based awards, both as set forth below. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock which was further extended collectively by an additional five million shares in 2010, 2013 and 2014. In May 2018, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 700,000 shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. During the first three months of 2019, we repurchased 91,303 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $27.77 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $2.5 million. During the first three months of 2018, we repurchased 41,322 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $35.31 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $1.5 million. As of March 31, 2019, we have 263,877 shares available for repurchase. 29 During the first three months of 2019, we received $1.2 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $1.1 million received for the comparable period of 2018. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk FactorsWe may seek to expand our business in ways that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. for more detailed information.