Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of Ceva, Inc. and its subsidiaries. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Headquartered in Rockville, Maryland, we are the leader in innovative silicon and software IP solutions that enable smart edge products to connect, sense, and infer data more reliably and efficiently. Commanding 67% of the wireless connectivity market share based on IP design revenues in 2023, according to IPnest, we believe we have the industrys broadest portfolio of comprehensive wireless communications and Edge AI IP platforms and embedded software solutions. We power the connectivity, sensing, and inference capabilities in todays most advanced smart edge products across four large, diversified markets with significant opportunity for long-term growth, covering consumer IoT, automotive, industrial and infrastructure, as well as the mobile and PC markets where we have well established customers and presence Based on our research, we believe that these sectors will represent a $5 billion total addressable market by 2027. Since 2003, more than 19 billion of the worlds most innovative smart edge products from AI-infused smartwatches, IoT devices and wearables to autonomous vehicles, 5G mobile networks and more have been shipped with Ceva IP, with approximately 2 billion products shipped in 2024 alone. For more than three decades, we have been a trusted partner to hundreds of leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies servicing not just our largest target growth and incumbent markets, but also a wide variety of other end markets and applications, including smart-home, surveillance, robotics and medical. Our transformative semiconductor IP and embedded software offerings are incorporated by customers into application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard products (ASSPs) to enable power-efficient, intelligent, secure and connected devices that connect, sense, and infer - the three critical pillars of the rapidly evolving era of AI-enabled smart edge technology. Our wireless communications, sensing and edge AI technologies are at the heart of some of todays most advanced smart edge products. Our comprehensive portfolio includes: Advanced wireless connectivity solutions: Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, Ultra-Wideband (UWB), and 5G-Advanced platform IP for ubiquitous and robust communication; Scalable Edge AI capabilities: neural processing unit (NPU) IP to enable AI, on-device; and Sensor fusion processors and embedded application software that make devices smarter and more responsive. We license our portfolio of wireless communications and scalable Edge AI IP to our customers, breaking down barriers to entry and enabling them to bring new cutting-edge products to market faster, more reliably, efficiently and economically. Ceva is committed to being a responsible and respected global corporate citizen and a more sustainable company in the countries where we have operations and employees. We adhere to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and emphasize and focus on environmental controls, resource conservation and recycling and the welfare of our employees. We believe our portfolio of wireless communications, sensing and Edge AI technologies address some of the most important megatrends, including 5G expansion, generative AI, embedded AI, industrial automation and vehicle electrification. We continue to experience strong interest across our IP portfolio due to these trends, in both traditional and new areas. In the first quarter of 2025, we concluded eleven IP licensing deals for a range of wireless and smart sensing use cases, including notable strategic licensing deals for our Wi-Fi 7 IP with two of our current highest volume customers. We also signed significant agreements for our NeuPro-M Edge AI NPU with an automotive semiconductor company for their next-generation ADAS solutions and for our RealSpace spatial audio software to be integrated into PC headsets for a leading PC OEM. 25 Table of Contents We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: Our broad Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, UWB and cellular IoT IP allow us to address the high volume IoT industrial, consumer and smart home markets. Our addressable market size for Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, UWB and cellular IoT is expected to be more than 16.5 billion devices annually by 2029 based on research from ABI Research. In the first quarter of 2025, we signed multiple licensing deals for our range of wireless connectivity IP, including a Wi-Fi 7 deal with one of our current highest volume customers, a Wi-Fi 6 / BLE combo deal with a top 10 MCU player and new Bluetooth deals with two of our leading audio customers. Moreover, we believe that Wi-Fi continues to present a significant royalty revenue opportunity, given our leading market position in licensing Wi-Fi 6 with more than 40 customers to date and leadership position in Wi-Fi 7 IP. We believe our PentaG2 platform and digital signal processors (DSPs) for 5G mobile broadband and 5G RedCap is one of the most comprehensive baseband IP platforms in the industry today and provides newcomers and incumbents with a comprehensive solution to address the need for 5G processing for fixed wireless access, satellite communications and a range of connected devices such as robots, cars, smart cities and other devices for industrial applications. Indicative of the demand for our 5G IP, in the first quarter of 2025, we signed a deal with an existing customer for their next generation cellular IoT modem targeting the industrial market. In relation to 5G royalties, we reached a notable milestone in the first quarter, we receiving the first royalty report from a leading U.S. OEM using our technology in their in-house 5G modem. We anticipate this customer will significantly expand our market share in wireless communication IP and generate a meaningful, long-term royalty stream in the years to come. Our PentaG RAN platform for 5G RAN, including the recently announced Ceva-XC22 multi-thread DSP, ensures we offer one of the most comprehensive baseband processor IP platforms in the industry today. Our 5G IP provides newcomers and incumbents with a customizable solution to address the need for 5G, 5G Advanced and other communications in data centers and infrastructure. The high-volume consumer audio markets, including True Wireless Stereo (TWS) earbuds, smartwatches, AR and VR headsets, and other wearable assisted devices, offer an incremental growth segment for us for our Bluetooth, Audio AI DSPs and software IP. For OEMs to better address this market, our RealSpace Spatial Audio & Head Tracking Solution and ClearVox voice input software are available to enhance the user experience and offer premium features. In the first quarter, we signed a licensing deal for our RealSpace spatial audio software, which will be integrated into professional headsets and other audio devices from a leading PC OEM. Our SensPro2 sensor hub AI DSP family is designed to address the growing demand for efficient, high-performance signal processing in sensor-based applications across various industries and applications such as smartphones, automotive safety (ADAS), autonomous driving (AD), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), natural language processing (NLP) and voice recognition. Research from Bloomberg Intelligence forecasts that hardware revenue associated with computer vision AI products and conversational AI devices will reach $58 billion and $110 billion, respectively by 2032, indicating the size of the market opportunity. This sensor hub AI DSP enables us to address the transformation in devices enabled by these applications, and expand our footprint and content in smartphones, drones, consumer cameras, surveillance, automotive ADAS, voice-enabled devices and industrial IoT applications. Transformer and classic neural networks are increasingly being deployed in a wide range of devices to make these devices smarter. Our newest generation family of NeuPro-M AI NPUs present a highly efficient and high-performance architecture to enable generative and classic AI on any device including communication gateways, optically connected networks, cars, notebooks and tablets, AR/VR headsets, smartphones, and any other cloud or edge use case from the edge all the way to the cloud. Per research from Research and Markets, more than 6 billion Edge AI hardware units will ship annually by 2030, illustrating the huge potential of the market. In the first quarter of 2025, we signed an agreement for our NeuPro-M edge AI NPU with Nextchip, an automotive semiconductor manufacturer, for their next-generation ADAS solutions. AI is rapidly making its way into IoT devices, thanks in part to the emergence of embedded AI, including tiny machine learning (TinyML) models, which enable small AI networks to be embedded in Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT) devices for sensing use cases including sound, vision, vibration and health monitoring. Our recently announced NeuPro-Nano family of AI NPUs present a compelling proposition to add a cost- and power-efficient processor to microcontroller units and SoC designs to handle the complete AI workloads, on-device. Per ABI Research, by 2030, over 50% of TinyML shipments will be powered by dedicated embedded AI hardware such as NeuPro-Nano, representing billions of devices annually. 26 Table of Contents Our sensor fusion and spatial audio application software allows us to address an important technology piece used in personal computers, robotics, TWS earbuds, smart TVs and many other smart sensing IP products, in addition to our existing portfolio for camera-based computer vision and AI processing, and microphone-based sound processing. MEMS-based inertial and environmental sensors are used in an increasing number of devices, including robotics, smartphones, laptops, tablets, TWS earbuds, spatial audio headsets, remote controls and many other consumer and industrial devices. Our innovative and proven MotionEngine software supports a broad range of merchant sensor chips and is processor-agnostic to address the requirements of any OEM or semiconductor company that wishes to enhance their customer user experience. The MotionEngine software has already shipped in more than 400 million devices, indicative of its market traction and excellence. Along with our SensPro sensor hub AI DSPs, our licensees now benefit from our capabilities as a one-stop-shop for processing many types of sensors. As a result of our focus on silicon and software IP solutions that enable products to connect, sense, and infer data, we believe we are well positioned for long-term growth in shipments and royalty revenues derived from smart edge products. Royalty rates from these products comprise a range of ASPs, from high volume Bluetooth and Wi-Fi to high value sensor fusion and base station RAN. The royalty ASP of our other products will be in between the two ranges. CURRENT TRENDS We believe that with digital transformation being a long-term trend that continues to drive industries to become connected and intelligent, our ubiquitous technology and collaborative business model present a significant and secular growth prospect. We intend to continue to capitalize on the semiconductor momentum with our portfolio of technologies to enable three main use cases associated with smart edge devices: connect, sense and infer. We focus on four main markets, which are consumer IoT, automotive, industrial and infrastructure, which we believe are large, diversified and represent the greatest opportunities for long-term growth. We will also continue to serve the mobile and PC markets where we have established customers and market presence. We believe our key customers are keenly receptive to our products roadmap around connect, sense and infer, and that they are willing to expand the scope of engagements with us as our roadmap aligns with their technology needs. Furthermore, we anticipate that we complement our strong presence in the APAC region by further expanding our customer base and revenues in Europe and the U.S., as evidenced by our increasingly diversified revenue split by geography from 2022 through 2024. Our strategy returned us to year-over-year revenue growth in 2024, with overall revenue growing 10% over 2023, outperforming the 4% to 8% we expected at the beginning of 2024. In 2025, we expect our licensing and related revenues business will continue to expand into new markets and use cases for industrial IoT (IIoT) and consumer IoT devices, offering connectivity platforms, sensing platforms and software, AI solutions (including AI engines, NPUs and software) and more. On royalties, we expect our connectivity products to continue to also show growth in 2025, particularly related to our Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and cellular IoT business lines which enjoyed record shipments in 2024 and from an in-house 5G modem powered by our cellular DSP from a leading U.S. mobile OEM that launched its first smartphone based on the modem in the first quarter of 2025. However, the global economy continues to be impacted by macroeconomic conditions, including as a volatile interest rate environment, ongoing inflation and recent changes in legislation and regulations, including enacted and proposed tariffs and other trade policies, have introduced additional uncertainty in the global economy. In periods of perceived or actual unfavorable economic conditions, our customers or potential customers could delay or re-evaluate their decisions to initiate various projects which in turn could result in a delay or cessation of engagement or other business activities with us, and which could result in lower licensing revenues. In addition, lower consumer demand may result in lower royalty revenues as our customers ship fewer units. These factors may make it difficult for us to forecast and plan future budgetary decisions or business activities accurately. Accordingly, while we do not currently expect our IP solutions will themselves be subject to tariffs, the indirect impact on consumer demand, among other factors, has increased the uncertainty about the year. Given these evolving dynamics, as well as our lower than anticipated revenues for the first quarter, we are adopting a more cautious outlook, and have lowered our revenue guidance for the 2025 fiscal year from around a high-single digits range to a low-single digits range for growth over 2024 annual revenues. Instability in the Middle East Our operations in Israel remain largely unaffected by the war between Israel and Hamas that began on October 7, 2023 and escalated to conflicts with Lebanon and Hezbollah, and we continue to drive our business and support our customers globally. However, a portion of our employees in Israel have been or are called to active reserve duty and additional employees may be called in the future, if needed. The Company has executed its business continuity plan with respect to those employees. It is possible that some of our operations in the region may be disrupted if this continues for a significant period of time or if the situation further deteriorates. 27 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $24.2 million for the first quarter of 2025, representing an increase of 10% as compared to the corresponding period in 2024. The increase in total revenues for the first quarter of 2025 was due to higher licensing and related revenues, offset by lower royalty revenues, as further described below. Our five largest customers accounted for 56% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to 45% for the comparable period in 2024. One customer accounted for 24% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to two customers that accounted for 14% and 15% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2024. Sales to UNISOC (formerly Spreadtrum Communications, Inc. and RDA Corporation) represented 24% and 14% of our total revenues for the first three months of 2025 and 2024, respectively. Generally, the identity of our customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our IP licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, two royalty paying customers represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2025 and collectively represented 30% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2025. Two royalty paying customers represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2024 and collectively represented 41% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2024. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. The following table sets forth use cases for Ceva technology portfolio as percentages of our total revenues for each of the periods set forth below: First Quarter 2025 First Quarter 2024 Connect (baseband for handset and other devices, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and NB-IoT) 84 % 82 % Sense & Infer (sensor fusion, audio, sound, imaging, vision and AI) 16 % 18 % Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $15.0 million for the first quarter of 2025, representing an increase of 32%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2024. The increase in licensing and related revenues for the first quarter of 2025 was primarily due to the growing adoption of connectivity and inferencing technologies, which are the foundation pillars to our corporate strategy of innovation and market leadership in wireless connectivity, sensing and Edge AI technologies. On the connectivity front, we reinforced our industry leadership by securing several strategic agreements with key Bluetooth and Wi-Fi customers, solidifying our position in their long-term roadmaps by incorporating our new Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 7 IP. The second pillar enabling Edge AI is the inferencing use case. We signed a significant deal for our high-performance NeuPro-M edge AI NPU with a Korean automotive semiconductor company, for their next-generation ADAS solutions. As for the sensing use case, we secured multiple deals, most notably an agreement for our RealSpace spatial audio software, which will be integrated into professional headsets and other audio devices from a leading PC OEM. This marks a significant milestone, as it validates the quality and robustness of our spatial audio software solution. During the quarter, eleven IP licensing agreements were concluded, targeting a wide range of end markets and applications, including Edge AI NPU for automotive ADAS, Wi-Fi 7 connectivity for AIoT, Bluetooth 6 and Wi-Fi 6 for combo connectivity products, 5G cellular IoT for industrial devices, audio for consumer devices and spatial audio for PC headsets. Two of the deals signed were with first-time customers. Licensing and related revenues accounted for 62% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to 52% for the comparable period of 2024. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $9.2 million for the first quarter of 2025, representing a decrease of 14%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2024. The first quarter of 2024 included revenue of $1.0 million following the resolution of a royalty audit. Excluding this amount, the first quarter of 2025 would have been down by 5% as compared to the comparable period of 2024. Royalty revenues accounted for 38% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to 48% for the comparable period of 2024. Despite a combination of soft low-cost smartphone shipments and an industrial customer experiencing a slower product ramp-up than in the prior year, shipment volume remained strong. While overall revenues declined for these reasons, we remain optimistic about the long-term potential of our royalty business, supported by continued demand and steady market adoption. Moreover, we received the first royalty report from a leading U.S. OEM using our technology in their in-house 5G modem. We anticipate this customer will significantly expand our market share in wireless communication IP and generate a meaningful, long-term royalty stream in the years to come. Our customers reported sales of 420 million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the first quarter of 2025, an increase of 13% from the corresponding period in 2024 for actual shipments reported. 28 Table of Contents The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 50% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to 58% for the comparable period of 2024. Geographic Revenue Analysis First Quarter 2025 First Quarter 2024 (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 3.6 15 % $ 2.6 11 % Europe and Middle East $ 1.5 6 % $ 1.5 7 % Asia Pacific (1) $ 19.1 79 % $ 18.0 82 % Other $ $ 0.0 0 % (1) China $ 16.1 66 % $ 13.6 62 % Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues was $3.5 million for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to $2.5 million for the comparable period of 2024. Cost of revenues accounted for 14% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to 11% for the comparable period of 2024. The increase for the first quarter of 2025 principally reflected higher strategically beneficial customization work associated with the strategic 5G-Advanced deals we signed in the second half of 2024. Included in cost of revenues for the first quarter of 2025 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $159,000, as compared to $203,000 for the comparable period of 2024. Gross Margin Gross margin for the first quarter of 2025 was 86%, as compared to 89% for the comparable period of 2024. The decrease for the first quarter of 2025 mainly reflected higher cost of revenues as set forth above, offset by higher total revenues. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $25.1 million for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to $24.5 million for the comparable period of 2024. The net increase for the first quarter of 2025 principally reflected higher salaries and employee-related costs, higher professional services costs and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by higher allocation of customization work for our licensees to cost of revenues. Research and Development Expenses, Net Total research and development expenses, net were $17.6 million for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to $18.0 million for the comparable period of 2024. The decrease for the first quarter of 2025 principally reflected higher allocation of customization work for our licensees to cost of revenues, partially offset by higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2025 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $2,466,000, as compared to $2,007,000 for the comparable period of 2024. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 73% for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to 82% for the comparable period of 2024. The percentage decrease for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to the comparable period of 2024, was mainly due to higher revenues. The number of research and development personnel was 325 at March 31, 2025, as compared to 331 at March 31, 2024. 29 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $3.4 million for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to $2.8 million for the comparable period of 2024. The increase for the first quarter of 2025 principally reflected higher salaries and employee-related costs, mainly due to a greater number of personnel, as well as higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the first quarter of 2025 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $566,000, as compared to $365,000 for the comparable period of 2024. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 14% for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to 13% for the comparable period of 2024. The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 34 at March 31, 2025, as compared to 28 at March 31, 2024. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $3.9 million for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to $3.6 million for the comparable period of 2024. The increase for the first quarter of 2025 primarily reflected higher professional services costs. Included in general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2025 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $1,132,000, as compared to $996,000 for the comparable period of 2024. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 16% for the first quarter of both 2025 and 2024. The number of general and administrative personnel was 47 at March 31, 2025, as compared to 46 at March 31, 2024. Amortization of Intangible Assets Our amortization charges were $0.1 million for the first quarter of both 2025 and 2024. The amortization charges for the first quarter of 2025 and 2024 were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisitions of the Hillcrest Labs and VisiSonics business. Financial Income, Net (in millions) First Quarter 2025 First Quarter 2024 Financial income, net $ 2.10 $ 1.26 of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 1.50 $ 1.45 Foreign exchange gain $ 0.60 $ (0.19 ) Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities and foreign exchange movements. The slight increase in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during the first quarter of 2025 principally reflected higher yields, partially offset by lower combined bank deposits and marketable securities balances held. We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. However, our Euro cash balances increase significantly on a quarterly basis beyond our Euro liabilities, mainly from applicable French research tax credits, which are generally refunded every three years. This has resulted in a foreign exchange gain of $0.60 million for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to a foreign exchange loss of $0.19 million for the comparable period of 2024. Remeasurement of Marketable Equity Securities We recorded a loss of $54,000 for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to a loss of $60,000 for the comparable period of 2024, related to remeasurement of marketable equity securities, which we hold at fair value. Over time, other income (expense), net, may be affected by market dynamics and other factors. Equity values generally change daily for marketable equity securities and upon the occurrence of observable price changes or upon impairment of marketable equity securities. In addition, volatility in the global economic climate and financial markets could result in a significant change in the value of our investments. 30 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses was $1.0 million for the first quarter of 2025, as compared to $1.7 million for the comparable period of 2024. The decrease for the first three months of 2025 primarily reflected lower withholding tax expenses in our Israeli subsidiary for which we will not be able to obtain a refund from the tax authorities, and lower tax expenses on income generated in our French subsidiary (under the French IP Box regime). We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. Additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. A number of factors influence our effective tax rate, including changes in tax laws and treaties as well as the interpretation of existing laws and rules. Federal, state, and local governments and administrative bodies within the United States, and other foreign jurisdictions have implemented, or are considering, a variety of broad tax, trade, and other regulatory reforms that may impact us. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the U.S. Tax Reform) enacted on December 22, 2017 resulted in changes in our corporate tax rate, our deferred income taxes, and the taxation of foreign earnings. It is not currently possible to accurately determine the potential comprehensive impact of future changes, but these changes could have a material impact on our business and financial condition. We have significant operations in Israel and operations in France and the Republic of Ireland. A substantial portion of our taxable income is generated in Israel and France, as well as potentially in the U.S. due to GILTI and the requirement to capitalize research and development expenditures under IRC Section 174 over 5 years if sourced from the U.S. and over 15 years if sourced internationally. Although our Israeli, French and Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates, the tax rates in these jurisdictions could nevertheless result in a substantial increase as a result of withholding tax expenses with respect to which we are unable to obtain a refund from the relevant tax authorities. Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary is entitled to a tax benefit of 10% applied to specific revenues under the French IP Box regime. The French IP Box regime applies to net income derived from the licensing, sublicensing or sale of several IP rights such as patents and copyrighted software, including royalty revenues. This elective regime requires a direct link between the income benefiting from the preferential treatment and the research and development expenditures incurred and contributing to that income. Qualifying income may be taxed at a favorable 10% CIT rate (plus social surtax, hence 10.3% in total). Income not eligible for a tax benefit under the French IP Box regime is taxed at a regular rate of 25%. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits as a technological enterprise. In December 2016, the Economic Efficiency Law (Legislative Amendments for Applying the Economic Policy for the 2017 and 2018 Budget Years), 2016, which includes the Amendment to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (Amendment 73) (the Amendment), was published. The Amendment, among other things, prescribes special tax tracks for technological enterprises, which are subject to rules that were issued by the Minister of Finance in April 2017. The tax track under the Amendment, which is applicable to our Israeli subsidiary, is the Technological Preferred Enterprise. Technological Preferred Enterprise is an enterprise for which total consolidated revenues of its parent company and all subsidiaries are less than 10 billion New Israeli Shekel (NIS). A Technological Preferred Enterprise, as defined in the Amendment, that is located in the center of Israel (where our Israeli subsidiary is currently located), is taxed at a rate of 12% on profits deriving from IP. Any dividends distributed to foreign companies, as defined in the Amendment, deriving from income from technological enterprises will be taxed at a rate of 4%. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. 31 Table of Contents We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, equity-based compensation and credit losses have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2025, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, 2025, we had approximately $18.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, $2.0 million in bank deposits, and $137.5 million in marketable securities, totaling $158.3 million, as compared to $163.6 million at December 31, 2024. The decrease for the first three months of 2025 principally reflected cash used in operating activities. Out of total cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities of $158.3 million, $134.3 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay taxes to repatriate these funds. The determination of the amount of additional taxes related to the repatriation of these earnings is not practicable, as it may vary based on various factors such as the location of the cash and the effect of regulation in the various jurisdictions from which the cash would be repatriated. During the first three months of 2025, we invested $29.1 million of cash in marketable securities with maturities up to 36 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, marketable securities were redeemed for cash amounting to $35.7 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of loss. The amount of credit losses recorded for the first three months of 2025 was immaterial. For more information about our marketable securities, see Note 6 to the interim condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2025. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities for the first three months of 2025 was $7.4 million and consisted of net loss of $3.3 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $4.4 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $8.5 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $0.9 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, and $4.3 million of equity-based compensation expenses, partially offset by $0.2 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities and $0.6 million of unrealized foreign exchange gain. The decrease in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in trade receivables of $3.5 million, and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.7 million (mainly as a result of payment of a yearly design tool subscription), as well as a decrease in deferred revenues of $0.6 million, a decrease in accrued expenses and other payables of $1.1 million, a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $0.8 million (mainly due to partial yearly bonus payments), partially offset by an increase in trade payables of $1.4 million. Cash used in operating activities for the first three months of 2024 was $7.3 million and consisted of net loss of $5.4 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $4.6 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $6.5 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $1.0 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, and $3.6 million of equity-based compensation expenses. The decrease in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in trade receivables of $3.0 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.2 million (mainly as a result of payment of a yearly design tool subscription), a decrease in deferred revenues of $0.5 million, and a decrease in accrued expenses and other payables of $1.0 million, partially offset by an increase in accrued payroll and related benefits of $0.5 million and an increase in trade payables of $0.4 million. 32 Table of Contents Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from research and development government grants and French research tax credits, and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities for the first three months of 2025 was $6.2 million, compared to $5.1 million of net cash provided by investing activities for the comparable period of 2024. We had a cash outflow of $29.1 million and a cash inflow of $35.7 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first three months of 2025, as compared to a cash outflow of $12.7 million and a cash inflow of $18.9 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first three months of 2024. We had a cash outflow of $0.3 million and $0.9 million during the first three months of 2025 and 2024, respectively, from purchase of property and equipment. For the first three months of 2024, we had a cash inflow of $0.5 million in connection with the sale of Intrinsix, and a cash outflow of $0.8 million for the acquisition of a Greek-based company. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the first three months of 2025 was $1.4 million, as compared to net cash provided by financing activities in the amount of $0.3 million for the comparable period of 2024. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act, which was extended by an additional 7,800,000 shares collectively across further approvals in 2010, 2013, 2014, 2018, 2020, 2023 and November 2024. There were no repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended March 31, 2025. During the first three months ended March 31, 2024, we repurchased 56,872 shares of common stock at an average purchase price of $22.48 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $1,278. As of March 31, 2025, we had 1,024,781 shares available for repurchase. During the first three months of 2025, we received $1.4 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $1.6 million received for the comparable period of 2024. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Contractual Obligations and Commitments We believe that our contractual obligations and commitments have not changed materially from those included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024.