Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of CEVA, Inc. and its subsidiaries. CEVA is a leading licensor of cellular, multimedia and connectivity technologies to semiconductor companies and OEMs serving the mobile, consumer, automotive and Internet-of-Things (IoT) markets. Our DSP intellectual property portfolio includes comprehensive platforms for multimode 2G/3G/LTE/LTE-A baseband processing in terminals and infrastructure, computer vision and computational photography for any camera-enabled device, audio/voice/speech and ultra-low power always-on/sensing applications for multiple IoT markets. For connectivity, we offer the industrys most widely adopted IPs for Bluetooth (Smart and Smart Ready), Wi-Fi (802.11 b/g/n/ac up to 4x4) and serial storage (SATA and SAS). Our technologies are widely licensed and power many of the worlds leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies. One in three cellular handsets sold worldwide is powered by CEVA. To date, more than 6 billion CEVA-powered devices have shipped, illustrating the strong market deployment of our technology. Our DSPs power many leading handset OEMs in the world today, including Coolpad, HTC, Huawei, Lenovo, LG, Meizu, Micromax, Samsung, Xiaomi and ZTE, as well as hundreds of local handset manufacturers in China and India. Based on internal data and Strategy Analytics provisional worldwide shipment data, CEVAs worldwide market share of cellular baseband chips that incorporate our technologies was approximately 33% of the worldwide shipment volume in 2014. In July 2014, we acquired RivieraWaves SAS (RivieraWaves), a privately-held, French-based company and a leading provider of wireless connectivity intellectual property for Wi-Fi and Bluetooth technologies. We agreed to pay an aggregate of $18,378,000 to acquire RivieraWaves with $14,678,000 paid at closing of the acquisition and the remaining amount of $3,700,000 is payable upon the satisfaction of certain milestones (the Contingent Consideration). During the first quarter of 2015, we paid $2,700,000 of the Contingent Consideration and the remaining amount of $1,000,000 is expected to be paid during the remainder of 2015. In addition, we established an employee retention plan for RivieraWaves employees at an expense of approximately $3.4 million to be payable on a semi-annual basis for a period of two years after closing of the acquisition. As of March 31, 2015, we paid $329,000 of the employee retention plan expenses. We believe the adoption of our DSP cores, software and connectivity IPs in connected device and IoT application markets continues to progress. Applications for such markets include smartphones, tablets, smart home appliances, wearables, surveillance, connected car, industrial and medical. As a testament to our progress in those markets, during the first quarter of 2015, we signed a record twelve licensing agreements, five of which were for our connectivity IPs and seven for customers who will incorporate our DSPs into smartphones, LTE routers, Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS), surveillance cameras, wearables and storage systems. Included in those deals were our lead licensees for our newest, best of breed CEVA-XM4 Intelligent Vision processor and precertified next generation Bluetooth 5.0 type IP. Overall, eight of the twelve deals signed during the first quarter of 2015 were with first-time customers. We anticipate this expansion strategy will result in future royalty growth and a more diversified royalty base. We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: CEVA is firmly established in the largest space in the semiconductor industry baseband for mobile handsets. In particular, our presence in the 3G & LTE smartphone markets continue to grow as our customers targeting those markets are gaining market share at the expense of the incumbents. As a testament to this, recent flagship LTE smartphone launches by a number of tier one OEMs included our DSPs for the first time, and we anticipate our market share will continue to grow. The royalty we derive from a smartphone is higher on average than that of a feature phone, so we are set to benefit as handset markets around the world continue to transition and shift away from feature phones to smartphones. Our competitive edge in software-defined radio technology for next generation LTE and Wi-Fi technologies in base stations, and the inherent low cost and power performance balance of our technologies, put us in a strong position to simultaneously capitalize on mass market adoption of such technologies and address multiple market sectors, including small cells, macrocells, routers and machine-to-machine. 16 Table of Contents Together with our presence in cellular-based machine-to-machine, small cells and macrocells, our acquisition of RivieraWaves allows us to expand further into Internet-of-Things applications. This acquisition substantially increased our overall addressable market to cover all categories of connected devices. Our addressable market size is expected to be 35 billion devices by 2020, per recent data from ABI Research. Already, shipments of products incorporating our Bluetooth IP are starting to become sizeable, with more than 20 million Bluetooth chips now shipping each quarter by our customers. We anticipate this growth in Bluetooth IP will continue. The market potential for intelligent audio processing required for IoT applications, including mobile, automotive and consumer devices, offers a new growth segment for the company. Our CEVA-TeakLite-4 DSP was specifically designed to address the increasingly complex processing and stringent low-power requirements of advanced voice pre-processing and audio post-processing algorithms, including always-on voice activation, voice trigger, noise elimination and audio rendering. Many companies are looking to replace their older in-house DSPs due to the power and performance requirements outlined above. Furthermore, the programmable nature of our audio/voice DSP combined with a large ecosystem of audio partners developing software enable our customers to significantly differentiate their products and feature sets. Our proven track record in audio/voice, with more than 4 billion audio chips shipped to date, puts us in a strong position to power audio roadmaps across this new range of addressable end markets. The market potential for vision processing in IoT applications offers another new growth segment for the company. At Mobile World Congress in March 2015, we announced our newest, best of breed CEVA-XM4 Intelligent Vision processor, a follow-up to our highly successful predecessor, the CEVA-MM3101. The CEVA-XM4 achieves up to 8x performance improvement with 2.5 greater energy efficiency, compared to the CEVA-MM3101, providing a highly compelling product offering for any camera-enabled device such as smartphones, tablets, automotive safety (ADAS) robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), drones, and signage. Per ABI Research, one billion cameras were shipped in 2012, and this number is predicted to grow to 2.7 billion by 2017. 80% of this volume is attributable to smartphones, where we already have a strong foothold through our other technologies. Mobile OEMs are looking for new DSLR features such as smarter autofocus, better picture using super resolution algorithms, and better image capture in low-light environments. Furthermore, with the addition of video analytics support, cameras will enable new services like augmented reality, gesture recognition and advanced safety capabilities in cars. We see this new revolution in vision processing as an opportunity for us to significantly expand our footprint in smartphones and further into tablets, PCs and automotive applications. As a result of our diversification strategy beyond cellular baseband and our progress in addressing these new markets under the umbrella of the Internet-of-Things, we expect significant growth in our unit shipments for non-cellular baseband applications over the next few years, up from approximately 86 million royalty-bearing units annually in 2014 to 700 to 900 million units annually by 2018. This will be in addition to our existing cellular baseband business, which we believe will continue to be a significant growth driver for us. Moreover, as a result of our acquisition of RivieraWaves and our existing DSP products, our quarterly licensing revenues is now in the range of $6 million to $7.5 million, as compared to our historical revenue figures in the range of $5 million to $6 million per quarter in the last few years. Notwithstanding the various growth opportunities we have outlined above, our business operates in a highly competitive and cyclical environment. The maintenance of our competitive position and our future growth are dependent on our ability to adapt to ever-changing technologies, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and the trend towards Internet-of-Things, cellular baseband, connectivity, and voice, audio and video convergence in the markets that we operate. Also, our business relies significantly on revenues derived from a limited number of customers. The discontinuation of product lines or market sectors that incorporate our technology by our significant customers or a change in direction of their business and our inability to adapt our technology to their new business needs could have material negative implications for our future royalty revenues. For example, the shift away from feature phones by our customer Intel and the exiting of the handset baseband market by our customer Broadcom and ST have negatively impacted our royalty revenues. Moreover, competition has historically increased pricing pressures for our products and decreased our average selling prices. Royalty payments under our existing license agreements also could be lower than currently anticipated for a variety of reasons, including decreased royalty rates triggered by larger volume shipments, lower royalty rates negotiated with customers due to competitive pressure or consolidation among our customers. Some of our competitors have reduced their licensing and royalty fees to attract customers and expand their market share. In order to penetrate new markets and maintain our market share with our existing products, we may need to offer our products in the future at lower prices which may result in lower profits. In addition, our future growth is dependent not only on the continued success of our existing products but also the successful introduction of new products, which requires the dedication of resources into research and development which in turn may increase our operating expenses. Furthermore, since our products are incorporated into end products of our OEM and semiconductor customers, our business is very dependent on their ability to achieve market acceptance of their end products in the handset and consumer electronic markets, which are similarly very competitive. In addition, macroeconomic trends may significantly affect our 17 Table of Contents operating results. For example, consolidation among our customers may negatively affect our revenue source, increase our existing customers negotiation leverage and make us more dependent on a limited number of customers. Also, since we derive a significant portion of our revenues from the handset market, any negative trends in that market would adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries remain volatile, which makes it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast financial results and plan for future business activities. Our license arrangements have not historically provided for substantial ongoing license payments so revenue recognized from licensing arrangements vary significantly from period to period, depending on the number and size of deals closed during a quarter, and is difficult to predict. Moreover, our royalty revenues are based on the sales of products incorporating the semiconductors or other products of our customers, and as a result we do not have direct access to information that will help us anticipate the timing and amount of future royalties. We have very little visibility into the timetable of product shipments incorporating our technology by our customers. As a result, our past operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $13.8 million for the first quarter of 2015, representing an increase of 1%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2014. The increase in total revenues for the first quarter of 2015 principally reflected higher royalty revenues. Five largest customers accounted for 55% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to 77% for the comparable period in 2014. Two customers accounted for 25% and 14% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to three customers that accounted for 16%, 22% and 22% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2014. Sales to Spreadtrum represented 25% and 16% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2015 and 2014, respectively. Generally, the identity of our other customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, two royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2015, and collectively represented 69% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2015; three royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2014, and collectively represented 71% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2014. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. The loss of any significant customer could adversely affect our near-term future operating results. Our total revenues derived from the cellular baseband market represented 53% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to 56% for the comparable period in 2014. Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $7.8 million for the first quarter of 2015, representing a slight decrease of 1%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2014. The decrease in licensing and related revenues for the first quarter of 2015 reflected lower revenues from our CEVA-X DSP core family of products and CEVA-TeakLite core family of products, partially offset by higher revenues from our connectivity IP products, mainly Bluetooth IP acquired from RivieraWaves. Licensing and related revenues accounted for 57% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2015, compared to 58% for the comparable period of 2014. During the first quarter of 2015, we concluded 12 new license agreements. Of the 12 new license agreements signed during the quarter, ten are for non-baseband applications, and eight are with first time customers. Seven agreements were for CEVA DSP cores, platforms and software, and five agreements were for CEVA connectivity IP consisting of SATA/SAAS and Bluetooth technologies. Target applications for customer deployment are smartphones, LTE routers, Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS), surveillance cameras, wearables and storage systems. Geographically, six of the agreements concluded were in the Asia Pacific region, including Japan, five were in the U.S and one was in Europe. Our licensing business is progressing in line with our expectations with a good pipeline and diverse customer base and target markets. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $6.0 million for the first quarter of 2015, an increase of 4% from the first quarter of 2014. Royalty revenues accounted for 43% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to 42% for the comparable period of 2014. The increase in royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2015 reflected an increase in overall baseband shipments, especially LTE products which have higher royalty average selling prices. This increase was partially offset by lower non-baseband revenue from end of life legacy products. Our customers reported sales of 233 million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to 212 million for the comparable period of 2014. Part of this increase is attributed to a significant increase in Bluetooth product 18 Table of Contents shipments, which bear a significant lower royalty average selling prices than the baseband products. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 87% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to 85% for the comparable period of 2014. As of March 31, 2015 and 2014, 28 licensees were shipping products incorporating our technologies. Geographic Revenue Analysis First Quarter 2015 First Quarter 2014 (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 2.0 14 % $ 5.2 38 % Europe and Middle East $ 1.4 11 % $ 1.8 13 % Asia Pacific (1) (2) $ 10.4 75 % $ 6.7 49 % (1) China $ 7.5 54 % $ 2.7 20 % (2) Taiwan $ * ) * ) $ 3.1 23 % *) Less than 10% Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues were $1.2 million for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to $1.1 million for the comparable period of 2014. Cost of revenues accounted for 9% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to 8% for the comparable period of 2014. The slight increase for the first quarter of 2015 principally reflected higher payments to the Office of the Chief Scientist of Israel (the OCS). Included in cost of revenues for the first quarter of 2015 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $35,000, as compared to $58,000 for the comparable period of 2014. Gross Margin Gross margin for the first quarter of 2015 was 91%, compared to 92% for the comparable period of 2014. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $12.1 million for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to $10.4 million for the comparable period of 2014. The increase in total operating expenses for the first quarter of 2015 principally reflected: (1) higher salary and related costs, which mainly included first time salary and related costs associated with the RivieraWaves employees and retention costs for the RivieraWaves employees; (2) higher project-related expenses; (3) higher commission expenses; and (4) amortization charges for intangible assets acquired from RivieraWaves, partially offset by higher research grants received from the OCS, higher research tax benefits applicable to French technology companies (CIR) and lower non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Research and Development Expenses, Net Our research and development expenses, net, were $7.4 million for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to $6.0 million for the comparable period of 2014. The net increase for the first quarter of 2015 principally reflected: (1) higher salary and related costs, which mainly included first time salary and related costs associated with the RivieraWaves employees and retention costs for the RivieraWaves employees; and (2) higher project-related expenses, partially offset by higher research grants received from the OCS, higher research tax benefits applicable to CIR, and lower non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2015 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $391,000, as compared to $601,000 for the comparable period of 2014. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 53% for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to 44% for the comparable period of 2014. The number of research and development personnel was 182 at March 31, 2015, compared to 146 at March 31, 2014. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $2.4 million for both the first quarter of 2015 and 2014. The net effect for the first quarter of 2015 primarily reflected higher commission expenses, offset by lower non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the first quarter of 2015 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $79,000, as compared to $302,000 for the comparable period of 2014. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 18% for both the first quarter of 2015 and 2014. 19 Table of Contents The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 30 at March 31, 2015, compared to 28 at March 31, 2014. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $2.0 million for both the first quarter of 2015 and 2014. The net effect for the first quarter of 2015 primarily reflected higher salary and related costs, offset by lower non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2015 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $344,000, as compared to $552,000 for the comparable period of 2014. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 14% for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to 15% for the comparable period of 2014. The number of general and administrative personnel was 21 at March 31, 2015, compared to 20 at March 31, 2014. Amortization of intangible assets Our amortization charges were $0.3 million for the first quarter of 2015. The charges were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of RivieraWaves in July 2014. As of March 31, 2015, the net amount of intangible assets was $5.2 million. There were no amortization charges for the first quarter of 2014. Financial Income, Net (in millions) First Quarter 2015 First Quarter 2014 Financial income (loss), net of which: $ (0.03 ) $ 0.46 Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 0.42 $ 0.47 Foreign exchange loss $ (0.40 ) $ (0.01 ) Accretion of Contingent Consideration $ (0.05 ) Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities, foreign exchange movements and changes in fair value related to contingent consideration as part of the acquisition of RivieraWaves. The decrease in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during the first quarter of 2015, principally reflected less combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held. We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. However, our Euro cash balances increased significantly beyond our ordinary course Euro business liabilities as a result of the acquisition of RivieraWaves because we acquired cash balances of RivieraWaves on hand at the time of closing of the transaction. This has resulted in an increase in foreign exchange loss during the first quarter of 2015 due to the devaluation of our Euro cash balances as the U.S. dollar strengthened significantly during the first quarter of 2015 as compared to the Euro. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses were $0.1 million for the first quarter of 2015, as compared to $0.6 million for the comparable period of 2014. The decrease for the first quarter of 2015 primarily reflected lower income before taxes on income and income tax benefit related to the RivieraWaves acquisition. Currently, our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary qualified for a 33.3% tax rate on its profits. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits by virtue of the Approved Enterprise and/or Benefited Enterprise status granted to its eight investment programs, as defined by the Israeli Investment Law. In accordance with the Investment Law, our Israeli subsidiarys first six investment programs were subject to corporate tax rate of 26.5% for the first quarter of 2015, and our Israeli subsidiarys seventh and eighth investment programs were subject to corporate tax rate of 10% for the first quarter of 2015. However, our Israeli subsidiary received an approval for the erosion of tax basis with respect to its second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth investment programs, and this resulted in an increase in the taxable income attributable to the seventh and eighth investment programs, which were subject to a reduced tax rate of 10% for the first quarter of 2015. The tax benefits under our Israeli subsidiarys active investment programs are scheduled to gradually expire starting in 2017. 20 Table of Contents To maintain our Israeli subsidiarys eligibility for the above tax benefits, it must continue to meet certain conditions under the Investment Law. Should our Israeli subsidiary fail to meet such conditions in the future, these benefits would be cancelled and it would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the standard corporate rate and could be required to refund tax benefits already received, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, fair value of financial instruments, equity-based compensation and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, filed with the SEC on March 13, 2015, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, 2015, we had approximately $14.0 million in cash and cash equivalents, $27.0 million in short term bank deposits, $47.9 million in marketable securities, and $39.2 million in long term bank deposits, totaling $128.1 million, as compared to $129.9 million at December 31, 2014. The decrease for the first quarter of 2015 principally reflected cash used for the acquisition of RivieraWaves, the repurchase of 93,903 shares of common stock, and net cash used in operating activities, partially offset by cash proceeds from exercise of stock-based awards . During the first quarter of 2015, we invested $25.5 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 35 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $24.8 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of income. We did not recognize any other-than-temporarily-impaired charges on marketable securities during the first quarter of 2015. For more information about our marketable securities, see Notes 4 to the attached Notes to the Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities for the first quarter of 2015 was $0.7 million and consisted of net income of $0.5 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $1.9 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $3.1 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $0.6 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $0.8 million of equity-based compensation expenses, $0.3 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities and $0.2 million of unrealized foreign exchange loss. The decrease in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in trade receivables of $3.0 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $1.5 million, an increase in deferred tax assets, net, of $0.5 million, and a decrease in accrued expenses and other payables of $0.3 million, partially offset by an increase in trade payables of $0.4 million, an increase in deferred revenues of $0.4 million, an increase in accrued payroll and related benefits of $1.2 million, and an increase in accrued severance pay, net, of $0.2 million. Cash provided by operating activities for the first quarter of 2014 was $4.8 million and consisted of net income of $2.0 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $2.1 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.7 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $1.7 million of depreciation and equity-based compensation expenses, $0.3 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities, and $0.1 million of accrued interest on bank deposits. The increase in cash 21 Table of Contents from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of a decrease in trade receivables of $2.6 million, a decrease in deferred taxes, net, of $0.1 million, an increase in deferred revenues of $0.2 million, and an increase in accrued payroll and related benefits of $0.2 million, partially offset by an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $1.5 million, a decrease in trade payables of $0.5 million, a decrease in accrued expenses and other payables of $0.3 million, and a classification of excess tax benefit from equity-based compensation expenses of $0.2 million as financing cash flows. Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from the OCS, CIR and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first quarter of 2015 was $1.0 million, compared to $2.4 million of net cash provided by investing activities for the comparable period of 2014. We had a cash outflow of $3.4 million and a cash inflow of $3.1 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first quarter of 2015, as compared to cash outflow of $10.1 million and a cash inflow of $12.9 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first quarter of 2014. For both the first quarter of 2015 and 2014, we had net investment of $0.4 million in bank deposits. We had a cash outflow of $0.4 million and $0.1 million during the first quarter of 2015 and 2014, respectively, from purchase of property and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the first quarter of 2015 was $0.5 million, compared to $3.0 million of net cash used in financing activities for the comparable period of 2014. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock which was further extended by an additional four million shares in 2010 and 2013. In October 2014, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of an additional one million shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. During the first quarter of 2015, we repurchased 93,903 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $20.41 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $1.9 million. During the first quarter of 2014, we repurchased 235,619 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $17.51 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $4.1 million. During the first quarter of 2015, we received $4.2 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $0.9 million received for the comparable period of 2014. We had a cash outflow of $2.7 million during the first quarter of 2015 to settle part of the Contingent Consideration in connection with the acquisition of RivieraWaves. During the first quarter of 2014, we classified $0.2 million of excess tax benefit from equity-based compensation expenses as financing cash flows. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk FactorsWe may seek to expand our business in ways that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. for more detailed information.