Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion together with the unaudited financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this quarterly report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this quarterly report may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth under in Part II Item 1A Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this quarterly report. See Forward-Looking Statements. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The financial information presented in this quarterly report includes the results of CEVA, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Headquartered in Mountain View, California, CEVA is a leading licensor of signal processing IP for a smarter, connected world. We partner with semiconductor companies and OEMs worldwide to create power-efficient, intelligent and connected devices for a range of end markets, including mobile, consumer, automotive, industrial and Internet of Things (IoT). Our ultra-low-power IPs for vision, sound, long and short range wireless, include comprehensive DSP-based platforms for LTE/LTE-A/5G baseband processing in handsets, infrastructure and IoT devices, advanced imaging, computer vision and deep learning for any camera-enabled device, as well as sound/voice/audio applications for multiple IoT markets. For short range wireless, we offer the industrys most widely adopted IPs for Bluetooth (low energy and dual mode) and Wi-Fi (802.11 b/g/n/ac up to 4x4). We also offer wired interface for storage (SATA and SAS). Our technologies are licensed to leading semiconductor and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) companies throughout the world. These companies incorporate our IP into application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard products (ASSPs) that they manufacture, market and sell to wireless, consumer, automotive and IoT companies. Our state-of-the-art technology has shipped in more than 8 billion chips to date for a wide range of diverse end markets. One in three handsets sold worldwide is powered by CEVA. Our DSPs power many leading handset OEMs in the world today, including a tier-one U.S. brand, Coolpad, HTC, Huawei, Intex, Karbonn, Lava, Lenovo, LG, Meizu, Micromax, OPPO, Samsung, Vivo, Xiaomi, ZTE and hundreds of local handset manufacturers in China and India. Based on internal data and Strategy Analytics provisional worldwide shipment data, CEVAs worldwide market share of handset baseband chips that incorporate our technologies was approximately 42% of the worldwide shipment volume in the fourth quarter of 2016. We believe the adoption of our signal processing IP cores and software for applications outside of the cellular baseband market continues to progress. As a testament to this growing trend, during the first quarter of 2017, we concluded eleven licensing deals, all of which are for non-cellular baseband applications. These license deals will see our technologies being integrated into a broad range of end devices targeting 5G base stations, automotive ADAS, surveillance cameras, smartphones, smart home appliances and variety of Bluetooth-enables IoT devices. We believe the following key elements represent significant growth drivers for the company: CEVA is firmly established in the largest space in the semiconductor industry baseband for mobile handsets. In particular, our presence in the 3G & LTE smartphone markets continue to grow as our customers targeting those markets are gaining market share at the expense of the incumbents. During the first quarter of 2017, we reported a record 91 million LTE chipsets shipped, which equates to 22% market share of the smartphone LTE devices sold worldwide for the fourth quarter of 2016. The royalty we derive from smartphones is higher on average than that of feature phones, so we are set to benefit as handset markets around the world continue to transition and shift away from feature phones to smartphones, particularly in emerging economies. Our specialization and competitive edge in digital signal processor technologies for next generation wireless such as LTE PRo, 5G and 802.11 Wi-Fi technologies, and the inherent low cost and power and performance balance of our designs, put us in a strong position to simultaneously capitalize on mass market adoption of such technologies and address multiple markets and product sectors, including handsets, macro base stations, small cells, Wi-Fi routers and varieties of machine type communications such as connected cars, smart cities, industrial markets and more. Together with our presence in the handset baseband market, our Bluetooth and Wi-Fi IPs allow us to expand further into IoT applications and substantially increase our overall addressable market. Our addressable market size is expected to be 35 billion devices by 2020, per data from ABI Research. Already, shipments of products incorporating our Bluetooth IP are sizeable, with a record 58 million CEVA-powered Bluetooth chips reported by our customers for the first quarter of 2017. 17 Table of Contents The market potential for voice assisted devices, as voice is becoming the primary user interface for IoT applications, including mobile, automotive and consumer devices, offers an additional growth segment for the company. Our proven track record in audio/voice, with more than 6 billion audio chips shipped to date, puts us in a strong position to power audio roadmaps across this new range of addressable end markets. The market potential for machine learning and deep networks for camera-related use cases in automotive, mobile, consumer and IoT applications offers another growth segment for the company. Our CEVA-XM4 intelligent vision processor and our new CEVA-XM6 vision processor and platform for deep learning provide highly compelling offerings for any camera-enabled device such as smartphones, tablets, automotive safety (ADAS), Autonomous Driving (AD), drones, robotics, security and surveillance, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), drones, and signage. Per ABI Research, camera shipments are expected to exceed 2.7 billion units by 2018. We have already signed more than 40 licensing agreements for our imaging and vision DSPs across those markets, where our customers can add camera-related enhancements such as smarter autofocus, better picture using super resolution algorithms, and better image capture in low-light environments. Other customers can add video analytics support to enable new services like augmented reality, gesture recognition and advanced safety capabilities in cars. This revolution in vision processing is an opportunity for us to expand our footprint in smartphones and further into tablets, drones, surveillance and automotive applications. As a result of our diversification strategy beyond baseband for handsets and our progress in addressing these new markets under the IoT umbrella, we expect significant growth in our unit shipments for non-handset baseband applications over the next few years, up from approximately 210 million royalty-bearing units annually in 2016 to 700 to 900 million units annually by 2018. Notwithstanding the various growth opportunities we have outlined above, our business operates in a highly competitive and cyclical environment. The maintenance of our competitive position and our future growth are dependent on our ability to adapt to ever-changing technologies, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs and the trend towards Internet-of-Things, handset baseband, connectivity, and voice, audio and video convergence in the markets that we operate. Also, our business relies significantly on revenues derived from a limited number of customers. The discontinuation of product lines or market sectors that incorporate our technology by our significant customers or a change in direction of their business and our inability to adapt our technology to their new business needs could have material negative implications for our future royalty revenues. Moreover, competition has historically increased pricing pressures for our products and decreased our average selling prices. Royalty payments under our existing license agreements also could be lower than currently anticipated for a variety of reasons, including decreased royalty rates triggered by larger volume shipments, lower royalty rates negotiated with customers due to competitive pressure or consolidation among our customers. Some of our competitors have reduced their licensing and royalty fees to attract customers and expand their market share. In order to penetrate new markets and maintain our market share with our existing products, we may need to offer our products in the future at lower prices which may result in lower profits. In addition, our future growth is dependent not only on the continued success of our existing products but also the successful introduction of new products, which requires the dedication of resources into research and development which in turn may increase our operating expenses. Furthermore, since our products are incorporated into end products of our OEM and semiconductor customers, our business is very dependent on their ability to achieve market acceptance of their end products in the handset and consumer electronic markets, which are similarly very competitive. In addition, macroeconomic trends may significantly affect our operating results. For example, consolidation among our customers may negatively affect our revenue source, increase our existing customers negotiation leverage and make us more dependent on a limited number of customers. Also, since we derive a significant portion of our revenues from the handset baseband market, any negative trends in that market would adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries remain volatile, which makes it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast financial results and plan for future business activities. Our license arrangements have not historically provided for substantial ongoing license payments so revenue recognized from licensing arrangements vary significantly from period to period, depending on the number and size of deals closed during a quarter, and is difficult to predict. Moreover, our royalty revenues are based on the sales of products incorporating the semiconductors or other products of our customers, and as a result we do not have direct access to information that will help us anticipate the timing and amount of future royalties. We have very little visibility into the timetable of product shipments incorporating our technology by our customers. As a result, our past operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. 18 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Revenues Total revenues were $21.3 million for the first quarter of 2017, representing an increase of 29%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2016. Five largest customers accounted for 63% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to 65% for the comparable period in 2016. Three customers accounted for 25%, 17% and 11% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to three customers that accounted for 24%, 17% and 16% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2016. Sales to Spreadtrum represented 25% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to 24% for the comparable period in 2016. Generally, the identity of our other customers representing 10% or more of our total revenues varies from period to period, especially with respect to our licensing customers as we generate licensing revenues generally from new customers on a quarterly basis. With respect to our royalty revenues, two royalty paying customers each represented 10% or more of our total royalty revenues for both the first quarter of 2017 and 2016, and collectively represented 76% and 83% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be generated by a limited number of customers. The concentration of our customers is explainable in part by consolidation in the semiconductor industry. The following table sets forth the products and services as percentages of our total revenues for each of the periods set forth below: First Quarter 2017 First Quarter 2016 DSP products (DSP cores and platforms): Baseband for handset and other devices 56 % 69 % Other non-baseband (audio, imaging and vision) 25 % 21 % Connectivity products (Bluetooth, WiFi and SATA/SAS) 19 % 10 % We expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues for 2017 from the above products and services. Licensing and Related Revenues Licensing and related revenues were $9.5 million for the first quarter of 2017, an all-time record high, representing an increase of 10%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2016. The increase in licensing and related revenues for the first quarter of 2017 was due to strong licensing performance from our connectivity and vision technologies business lines, partially offset by lower handset baseband technology licensing revenue. Licensing and related revenues accounted for 45% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2017, compared to 52% for the comparable period of 2016. During the first quarter of 2017, we concluded 11 new licensing deals. Of the 11 new licensing deals completed during the quarter, four were with first time customers, and all the licensing agreements completed during the quarter were for non-handset baseband applications. Eight of the agreements were for CEVA DSP cores, platforms and software and three were for CEVA connectivity IPs. Target applications for customer deployment include: 5G base stations, automotive ADAS, smart surveillance cameras, smartphones, smart home appliances and Bluetooth 4.2 and 5 connectivity for various IoT devices. Geographically, five of the deals signed were in China, one was in the U.S., one was in Europe and four were in the APAC region. Our licensing business is progressing in line with our expectations with a good pipeline and diverse customer base and target markets. Royalty Revenues Royalty revenues were $11.8 million for the first quarter of 2017, representing an increase of 50%, as compared to the corresponding period in 2016. Royalty revenues accounted for 55% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to 48% for the comparable period of 2016. The increase in royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2017 reflects an increase in LTE baseband shipments as a result of smartphones sales during the 2016 holiday season. Our customers reported sales of 352 million chipsets incorporating our technologies for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to 230 million for the comparable period of 2016. Of these volumes, 76 million were attributed to non-handset baseband for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to 45 million for the comparable period of 2016. This volume increase is attributable to an increase in smartphones shipments. The five largest royalty-paying customers accounted for 91% of our total royalty revenues for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to 92% for the comparable period of 2016. 19 Table of Contents Geographic Revenue Analysis First Quarter 2017 First Quarter 2016 (in millions, except percentages) United States $ 1.3 6 % $ 1.7 11 % Europe and Middle East $ 3.9 19 % $ 2.5 15 % Asia Pacific (1) (2) $ 16.1 75 % $ 12.3 74 % (1) China $ 9.7 46 % $ 8.9 54 % (2) S. Korea $ 3.7 18 % $ 2.7 16 % Due to the nature of our license agreements and the associated potential large individual contract amounts, the geographic split of revenues both in absolute dollars and percentage terms generally varies from quarter to quarter. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues was $1.7 million for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to $1.6 million for the comparable period of 2016. Cost of revenues accounted for 8% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to 10% for the comparable period of 2016. The slight increase for the first quarter of 2017 principally reflected higher salary and related costs. Included in cost of revenues for the first quarter of 2017 was a non-cash equity-based compensation expense of $91,000, as compared to $60,000 for the comparable period of 2016. Gross Margin Gross margin for the first quarter of 2017 was 92%, as compared to 90% for the comparable period of 2016. The increase for the first quarter of 2017 mainly reflected higher revenues. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses were $15.2 million for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to $13.1 million for the comparable period of 2016. The net increase in total operating expenses for the first quarter of 2017 principally reflected higher salary and related costs mainly due to higher headcount, lower research grants received from the Israeli Innovation Authority of the Ministry of Economy and Industry in Israel (the IIA), higher project-related expenses and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Research and Development Expenses, Net Our research and development expenses, net, were $9.9 million for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to $7.9 million for the comparable period of 2016. The net increase for the first quarter of 2017 principally reflected higher salary and related costs mainly due to higher headcount, lower research grants received from the IIA, higher project-related expenses and higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2017 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $871,000, as compared to $646,000 for the comparable period of 2016. Research and development expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 46% for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to 48% for the comparable period of 2016. The number of research and development personnel was 211 at March 31, 2017, compared to 187 at March 31, 2016. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses were $2.9 million for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to $2.8 million for the comparable period of 2016. The slight increase for the first quarter of 2017 primarily reflected higher commission costs. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the first quarter of 2017 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $289,000, as compared to $247,000 for the comparable period of 2016. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 14% for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to 17% for the comparable period of 2016. The total number of sales and marketing personnel was 35 at both March 31, 2017 and 2016. 20 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses were $2.1 million for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to $2.0 million for the comparable period of 2016. The increase for the first quarter of 2017 primarily reflected higher non-cash equity-based compensation expenses. Included in general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2017 were non-cash equity-based compensation expenses of $698,000, as compared to $521,000 for the comparable period of 2016. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of our total revenues were 10% for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to 12% for the comparable period of 2016. The number of general and administrative personnel was 24 at March 31, 2017, compared to 23 at March 31, 2016. Amortization of intangible assets Our amortization charges were $0.3 million for both the first quarter of 2017 and 2016. The charges were incurred in connection with the amortization of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of RivieraWaves in July 2014. As of March 31, 2017, the net amount of intangible assets was $2.7 million. Financial Income, Net (in millions) First Quarter 2017 First Quarter 2016 Financial income, net $ 0.57 $ 0.44 of which: Interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net $ 0.63 $ 0.47 Foreign exchange loss $ (0.06 ) $ (0.03 ) Financial income, net, consists of interest earned on investments, gains and losses from sale of marketable securities, accretion (amortization) of discounts (premiums) on marketable securities and foreign exchange movements. The increase in interest income and gains and losses from marketable securities, net, during the first quarter of 2017 principally reflected higher combined cash, bank deposits and marketable securities balances held and higher yields. We review our monthly expected major non-U.S. dollar denominated expenditures and look to hold equivalent non-U.S. dollar cash balances to mitigate currency fluctuations. This has resulted in a foreign exchange loss of $0.06 million for the first quarter of 2017, and a foreign exchange loss of $0.03 million for the comparable period of 2016. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expenses were $0.8 million for the first quarter of 2017, as compared to $0.5 million for the comparable period of 2016. The increase for the first quarter of 2017 primarily reflected higher income before taxes on income. Currently, our Israeli and Irish subsidiaries are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. Our Irish subsidiary qualified for a 12.5% tax rate on its trade. Interest income generated by our Irish subsidiary is taxed at a rate of 25%. Our French subsidiary qualified for a 33.3% tax rate on its profits. Our Israeli subsidiary is entitled to various tax benefits by virtue of the Approved Enterprise and/or Benefited Enterprise status granted to its eight investment programs, as defined by the Israeli Investment Law. In accordance with the Investment Law, our Israeli subsidiarys first seven investment programs were subject to corporate tax rate of 24% for the first three months of 2017, and our Israeli subsidiarys eighth investment program was subject to corporate tax rate of 10% for the first three months of 2017. However, our Israeli subsidiary is eligible for the erosion of tax basis with respect to its first seven investment programs, and this resulted in an increase in the taxable income attributable to the eighth investment program, which was subject to a reduced tax rate of 10% for the first three months of 2017. The tax benefits under our Israeli subsidiarys active investment programs are scheduled to gradually expire starting in 2020. To maintain our Israeli subsidiarys eligibility for the above tax benefits, it must continue to meet certain conditions under the Investment Law. Should our Israeli subsidiary fail to meet such conditions in the future, these benefits would be cancelled and it would be subject to corporate tax in Israel at the standard corporate rate and could be required to refund tax benefits already received, with interest and adjustments for inflation based on the Israeli consumer price index. 21 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, fair value of financial instruments, equity-based compensation and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. See our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, filed with the SEC on March 10, 2017, for a discussion of additional critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no changes in our critical accounting policies as compared to what was previously disclosed in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, 2017, we had approximately $12.6 million in cash and cash equivalents, $36.8 million in short term bank deposits, $64.2 million in marketable securities, and $50.0 million in long term bank deposits, totaling $163.6 million, as compared to $156.5 million at December 31, 2016. The increase for the first three months of 2017 principally reflected cash provided by operations and cash proceeds from exercise of stock-based awards, partially offset by the purchase of computers and platform tools during the first quarter of 2017, mainly for our research and development activities . Out of total cash, cash equivalents, bank deposits and marketable securities of $163.6 million, $129.2 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our intent is to permanently reinvest earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate foreign earnings to fund our U.S. operations. However, if these funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes as well as taxes in other countries to repatriate these funds. The determination of the amount of additional taxes related to the repatriation of these earnings is not practicable, as it may vary based on various factors such as the location of the cash and the effect of regulation in the various jurisdictions from which the cash would be repatriated. During the first three months of 2017, we invested $31.7 million of cash in bank deposits and marketable securities with maturities up to 59 months from the balance sheet date. In addition, during the same period, bank deposits and marketable securities were sold or redeemed for cash amounting to $18.7 million. All of our marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale. The purchase and sale or redemption of available-for-sale marketable securities are considered part of investing cash flow. Available-for-sale marketable securities are stated at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of stockholders equity, net of taxes. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments, as determined on a specific identification basis, are included in the interim condensed consolidated statements of income. We did not recognize any other-than-temporarily-impaired charges on marketable securities during the first three months of 2017. For more information about our marketable securities, see Notes 3 to the attached Notes to the Interim Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Bank deposits are classified as short-term bank deposits and long-term bank deposits. Short-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than three months but no longer than one year from the balance sheet date, whereas long-term bank deposits are deposits with maturities of more than one year as of the balance sheet date. Bank deposits are presented at their cost, including accrued interest, and purchases and sales are considered part of cash flows from investing activities. Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the first three months of 2017 was $6.3 million and consisted of net income of $4.1 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $3.1 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.9 million. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consisted of $0.8 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $1.9 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.3 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The decrease in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $1.7 million (mainly as a result of payment of a yearly design tools subscription) and an increase in deferred tax assets, net, of $0.4 million, partially offset by a decrease in trade receivables of $1.3 million. 22 Table of Contents Cash provided by operating activities for the first quarter of 2016 was $0.2 million and consisted of net income of $1.8 million, adjustments for non-cash items of $2.3 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $3.9 million. Adjustments for non- cash items primarily consisted of $0.6 million of depreciation and amortization of intangible assets, $1.5 million of equity-based compensation expenses and $0.2 million of amortization of premiums on available-for-sale marketable securities. The decrease in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily consisted of an increase in trade receivables of $2.6 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.5 million, an increase in accrued interest on bank deposits of $0.3 million, an increase in deferred tax assets, net, of $0.4 million, a decrease in deferred revenues of $1.3 million, and a decrease in accrued payroll and related benefits of $0.5 million, offset by an increase in trade payables of $0.7 million, an increase in accrued expenses and other payables of $0.3 million, an increase in income tax payable of $0.5 million and an increase in accrued severance pay, net, of $0.2 million. Cash flows from operating activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the timing of our receipts and payments. Our ongoing cash outflows from operating activities principally relate to payroll-related costs and obligations under our property leases and design tool licenses. Our primary sources of cash inflows are receipts from our accounts receivable, to some extent, funding from R&D government grants and French research tax credits, and interest earned from our cash, deposits and marketable securities. The timing of receipts of accounts receivable from customers is based upon the completion of agreed milestones or agreed dates as set out in the contracts. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the first three months of 2017 was $14.5 million, compared to $5.3 million of net cash used in investing activities for the comparable period of 2016. We had a cash outflow of $10.7 million and a cash inflow of $8.2 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first three months of 2017, as compared to a cash outflow of $15.4 million and a cash inflow of $9.4 million with respect to investments in marketable securities during the first three months of 2016. For the first three months of 2017, we had net investments of $10.5 million in bank deposits, as compared to net proceeds of $1.1 million from bank deposits for the comparable period of 2016. We had a cash outflow of $1.4 million (mainly for purchase of platform tools) and $0.4 million during the first three months of 2017 and 2016, respectively, from purchase of property and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the first three months of 2017 was $2.4 million, compared to $2.5 million of net cash used in financing activities for the comparable period of 2016. In August 2008, we announced that our board of directors approved a share repurchase program for up to one million shares of common stock which was further extended collectively by an additional five million shares in 2010, 2013 and 2014. We did not repurchase shares of common stock during the first three months of 2017. During the first three months of 2016, we repurchased 180,013 shares of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program, at an average purchase price of $18.98 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $3.4 million. During the first three months of 2017, we received $2.4 million from the exercise of stock-based awards, as compared to $0.9 million received for the comparable period of 2016. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits and marketable securities, along with cash from operations, will provide sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. We cannot provide assurances, however, that the underlying assumed levels of revenues and expenses will prove to be accurate. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we occasionally evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and minority equity investments. Accordingly, a portion of our available cash may be used at any time for the acquisition of complementary products or businesses or minority equity investments. Such potential transactions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, complete acquisitions or investments, integrate acquired businesses into our current operations, or expand into new markets. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurances that additional financing will be available to us in any required time frame and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk FactorsWe may seek to expand our business in ways that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses. for more detailed information.