Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7, in Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and in other portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may contain forward-looking statements and involve uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such statements. Although we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, any or all of our forward-looking statements may prove to be inaccurate and we can make no guarantees about our future performance. Should unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and/or those anticipated, estimated or projected. We undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events. For any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, the Company, Avis Budget, we, our or us means Avis Budget Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Avis, Budget, Budget Truck, Zipcar, Payless, Apex, Maggiore, Morini Rent, Turiscar and FranceCars refer to our Avis Rent A Car System, LLC, Budget Rent A Car System, Inc., Budget Truck Rental, LLC, Zipcar, Inc., Payless Car Rental, Inc., Apex Car Rentals, Maggiore Rent S.p.A., Morini S.p.A., Turiscar Group and AAA France Cars SAS operations, respectively, and, unless the context otherwise requires, do not include the operations of our licensees, as further discussed below. OVERVIEW We are a leading global provider of mobility solutions through our three most recognized brands, Avis, Budget and Zipcar, together with several other brands, well recognized in their respective markets. Our brands offer a range of options, from car and truck rental to car sharing. We and our licensees operate our brands in approximately 180 countries throughout the world. We generally maintain a leading share of airport car rental revenues in North America, Europe and Australasia, and we operate a leading car sharing network, as well as one of the leading commercial truck rental businesses in the United States. On average, our global rental fleet totaled approximately 660,000 vehicles in 2019 and we completed more than 41 million vehicle rental transactions worldwide. We typically generate approximately 64% of our revenues from on-airport locations. We license the use of the Avis, Budget, Zipcar and other brands trademarks to licensees in areas in which we do not operate directly. Our brands and mobility solutions have an extended global reach with more than 11,000 rental locations throughout the world, including approximately 4,300 locations operated by our licensees. We believe that Avis, Budget and Zipcar enjoy complementary demand patterns with mid-week commercial demand balanced by weekend leisure demand. We categorize our operations into two reportable business segments: Americas , which provides and licenses the Companys brands to third parties for vehicle rentals and ancillary products and services in North America, South America, Central America and the Caribbean, and operates the Companys car sharing business in certain of these markets; and International , which provides and licenses the Companys brands to third parties for vehicle rentals and ancillary products and services in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Australasia, and operates the Companys car sharing business in certain of these markets. Additional discussion of our reportable segments is included in the Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. COMPANY HISTORY Avis was founded in 1946 and is believed to be the first company to rent cars from airport locations. Since its founding, Avis has expanded its business throughout the United States and internationally, becoming one of the largest and most recognized car rental brands in the world. In 1996, Avis was acquired by HFS Incorporated and in 1997 merged with our predecessor company, with the combined entity being renamed Cendant Corporation. In 2006, Cendant spun off several significant subsidiaries and changed its name to Avis Budget Group, Inc. The Company is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Parsippany, New Jersey. Budget was founded in 1958 to appeal to the value-conscious car rental customer. In 2002, we acquired the Budget brand and certain Budget vehicle rental operations, including the Budget truck rental business. In 2011, we acquired Avis Europe, an independently-owned Company licensee, to expand our international operations and globally reunite the Avis and Budget brands. In 2012 and 2013, we acquired our Apex and Payless brands, respectively, which allowed us to expand our presence in the deep-value segment of the car rental industry. In 2013, we acquired Zipcar, a leading car sharing network, to better serve a greater variety of our customers mobility needs. In 2015, we acquired Maggiore, a leading provider of vehicle rental services in Italy. In 2016, we 3 Table of Contents acquired FranceCars, a privately held vehicle rental company based in France, which significantly expanded our presence in the French market. In 2018, we acquired Morini Rent, which focuses on rentals of cars, vans and refrigerated trucks in Northern Italy, and Turiscar, a well-established vehicle rental company in Portugal, and also invested in our licensee in Greece. These acquisitions have allowed us to continue to expand our global footprint of Company-operated locations and brand presence. OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is focused on driving sustainable and profitable growth by leveraging differentiated brands and products, delivering margins from our established businesses, and positioning our company as a global leader in the mobility sector. Leveraging Differentiated Brands and Products Our distinct and well-recognized global brands focus on different segments of customer demand and are complemented by a range of regional brands. We continue to support and build the reputation of our Avis brand as an innovative, reliable and high-quality service provider. Our investments in technology, including our Avis mobile application and websites, are key parts of our efforts to enhance the Avis experience for our customers. In 2019, the Avis mobile application was honored with the J.D. Power award for best mobile travel rental car application. Our Budget brand is a global leader among value-conscious vehicle rental consumers who are looking to get more from their vehicle rental provider and Budget Truck is a leading provider of trucks and vans. We are also a leading provider in the car sharing network, where our Zipcar brand provides wheels when you want them to urban consumers across more than 450 cities and towns and over 600 college and university campuses. We plan to drive incremental performance by continuing to improve our customer experience by growing ancillary sales, including services such as our curbside delivery product, providing discounted bundling of products, promoting car class upgrades, piloting new customer vehicle choice models (through our mobile application) and new payment features such as allowing customers to pay with more than one credit card. We plan to continue to strengthen and further expand our global footprint through organic growth and, potentially, through acquisitions, joint ventures, licensing agreements or other relationships. Improving Margins We have an ongoing portfolio of strategic initiatives underway to improve our margins, including the following: Continuing to invest in our connected fleet to benefit from fuel savings and improved utilization, vehicle recovery and damage collections; Expanding our risk vehicle dispositions through our direct-to-consumer sales channels, including online sales channels and strategically positioned Avis vehicle retail car sale lots, and direct-to-dealer sales channels; Achieving fleet cost efficiencies through our mileage optimization initiative, which involves understanding a vehicles next best action (rent, rest or hold) based upon current mileage, status and customer demand; and Rigorously controlling costs, reducing expenses and increasing efficiencies through process and other improvements. Evolving Mobility We believe that our company is well-positioned as a leader in the evolving mobility sector based on our leading brands, global operations and our fleet management capabilities. We continue to explore a range of mobility opportunities to support future revenue streams. We have expanded our services to offer vehicle rentals to ride-hail drivers and to package delivery providers. We are also exploring a new suite of services for potential customers who could utilize our operational experience and our technology to maintain and manage their own fleets. Our current and growing list of partnerships with mobility service and technology providers, including 4 Table of Contents companies such as Uber, Via and Waymo, allows us to offer more options to satisfy a wide variety of mobility needs. OUR BRANDS AND OPERATIONS OUR BRANDS Our Avis, Budget and Zipcar brands are three of the most recognized brands in our industry. We believe that each of our brands are positioned to be embraced by different target customers, and we see benefits and savings from our brands sharing some of the same maintenance facilities, fleet management systems, technology and administrative infrastructure. In addition, we are able to recognize benefits and savings by combining our car rental and car sharing maintenance activities and fleets at times to increase our fleet utilization efficiency and to meet demand peaks. These benefits are further enhanced by complementary demand patterns balancing our business customers utilization during weekdays and our leisure and urban customers utilization on evenings and weekends. We also operate the Payless and Apex brands, which operate in the value segment of the car rental industry, augmenting our Avis, Budget and Zipcar brands. In addition, our Maggiore and Morini Rent brands in Italy, FranceCars brand in France and Turiscar brand in Portugal further extend the range of vehicle use occasions we are able to serve. The following graphs present the approximate composition of our revenues in 2019 . * Includes Budget Truck. ** Includes Zipcar and other operating brands. *** Includes Budget Truck and Zipcar. The Avis brand provides high-quality vehicle rental and other mobility solutions at price points generally above non-branded and value-branded vehicle rental companies and serves the premium commercial and leisure segments of the travel industry. We operate or license Avis vehicle rental locations at virtually all of the largest commercial airports and cities in the world. The table below presents the approximate number of Avis locations as of December 31, 2019 . Avis Locations * Americas International Total Company-operated locations 1,600 1,300 2,900 Licensee locations 600 1,900 2,500 Total Avis Locations 2,200 3,200 5,400 * Certain locations support multiple brands. In 2019 , our Company-operated Avis locations generated total worldwide revenues of approximately $5.3 billion , of which approximately $ 2.6 billion was derived from commercial customers and approximately $3.6 billion was derived from customers renting at airports. The following graphs present the approximate composition of our Avis revenues in 2019 . 5 Table of Contents We also license the Avis brand to independent commercial owners who operate approximately half of our locations worldwide and generally pay royalty fees to us based on a percentage of applicable revenues. In 2019 , these royalty fees totaled approximately 1% of our worldwide Avis revenues. We offer Avis customers a variety of premium services, including: the Avis mobile application, which allows customers a unique and innovative way to control many elements of their rental experience via their mobile devices without the need to visit the rental counter. The Avis mobile application also allows customers to track Avis shuttle buses to rental locations, find their vehicle, and locate nearby gas stations and parking facilities. The application also includes the Split My Bill feature, which gives customers the ability to remotely split their bill between two credit cards, allowing, commercial customers to upgrade their car, add an ancillary product or extend their rental on their personal credit card following a business rental; Avis Preferred , a frequent renter rewards program that offers counter-bypass at major airport locations and reward points for every dollar spent on vehicle rentals and related products; the Avis Select Series , a selection of luxury vehicles including Mercedes, Jaguars, Corvettes, and others; invited or earned customer status levels allowing for upgrades and counter bypass; availability of premium, sport and performance vehicles as well as eco-friendly vehicles, including gasoline/electric hybrids; access to portable navigation units, tablets and satellite radio service; Avis rental services such as roadside assistance, fuel service options, e-receipts, electronic toll collection services that allow customers to pay highway tolls without waiting in toll booth lines, and amenities such as Avis Access , a full range of special products and services for drivers and passengers with disabilities; Curbside Delivery, a service that provides customers at select airport locations in the United States with the added convenience of being dropped off at the airport terminal in the same car that they rented; and for our corporate customers, Avis Budget Group Business Intelligence, a proprietary customer reporting solution that provides a centralized reporting tool and customer reporting portal for all corporate clients around the globe, enabling them to easily view and analyze their rental activity, permitting them to better manage their travel budgets and monitor employee compliance with applicable travel policies. Car Rental The Budget brand is a leading supplier of vehicle rental and other mobility solutions focused primarily on more value-conscious customers. We operate or license Budget car rental locations at most of the largest airports and cities in the world. 6 Table of Contents The table below presents the approximate number of Budget locations as of December 31, 2019 . Budget Locations * Americas International Total Company-operated locations 1,375 900 2,275 Licensee locations 550 1,100 1,650 Total Budget Locations 1,925 2,000 3,925 * Certain locations support multiple brands. We also license the Budget brand to independent commercial owners who operate approximately half of our locations worldwide and generally pay royalty fees to us based on a percentage of applicable revenues. In 2019 , these royalty fees totaled approximately 1% of our worldwide Budget revenues. Budget offers its customers several products and services similar to Avis, such as refueling options, roadside assistance, electronic toll collection, curbside delivery and other supplemental rental products, emailed receipts and special rental rates for frequent renters. In addition, Budgets mobile application allows customers to reserve, modify and cancel reservations on their mobile device, and its Fastbreak service expedites rental service for frequent travelers. Budget Truck Our Budget Truck rental business is one of the largest local and one-way truck and cargo van rental businesses in the United States. As of December 31, 2019 , our Budget Truck fleet is comprised of approximately 20,000 vehicles that are rented through a network of approximately 575 dealer-operated and 420 Company-operated locations throughout the continental United States. These dealers are independently-owned businesses that generally operate other retail service businesses. In addition to their principal businesses, the dealers rent our light- and medium-duty trucks and commercial cargo vans to customers and are responsible for collecting payments on our behalf. The dealers receive a commission on all truck, van and ancillary equipment rentals. The Budget Truck rental business serves both the light commercial and consumer sectors. The light commercial sector consists of a wide range of businesses that rent light- to medium-duty trucks, which we define as trucks having a gross vehicle weight of less than 26,000 pounds, for a variety of commercial applications. The consumer sector consists primarily of individuals who rent trucks to move household goods on either a one-way or local basis. In 2019 , our Company-operated Budget vehicle rental operations generated total revenues of approximately $3.2 billion , of which approximately $2.4 billion was derived from leisure customers and $2.2 billion was derived from customers renting at airports. The following graphs present the approximate composition of our Budget revenues in 2019 . Zipcar is a leading provider in the car sharing network, driven by a mission to enable simple and responsible urban living. With its wide variety of self-service vehicles available by the hour or day, Zipcar offers comprehensive, convenient and flexible car sharing options in urban areas and college campuses in over 450 cities and towns. Zipcar provides its members on-demand, self-service vehicles in reserved parking spaces located in neighborhoods, business districts, office complexes, college campuses and airports, as an alternative to car ownership. Members can reserve vehicles online, on a mobile device or over the phone, by the minute, 7 Table of Contents hour or by the day, at rates that include gasoline, insurance and other costs associated with vehicle ownership. We continue to offer our Zipcar Commuter product in 2019, which is available in several major markets in North America and provides sole access to a vehicle on weekdays and a dedicated parking spot during the week for Zipcar members who may commute outside of the city for work. We also continue to offer our Zipcar Flex product in London providing for one-way rentals, including to and from Heathrow airport, which can be parked in public on-street spots in designated areas of the city. Other Brands Our other brands include the following: Payless, a leading rental car supplier serving the deep-value segment of the industry, which we license or operate in approximately 250 locations worldwide, including more than 160 locations operated by licensees and approximately 90 Company-operated locations. Company-operated Payless locations are primarily located in North America, the majority of which are at or near major airports. Payless rental fees are often lower than those of larger, more established vehicle rental brands. The Payless business model allows the Company to extend the life-cycle of a portion of our rental fleet, as we cascade certain vehicles that exceed certain Avis and Budget age or mileage thresholds to be used by Payless. Apex, which operates in approximately 30 rental locations at, or near, major airports and in several metropolitan cities in New Zealand and Australia with a separate rental fleet. Apex generates reservations through proprietary websites as well as a contact center and online travel agencies and typically has a greater-than-average length of rental. Maggiore, a leading vehicle rental brand in Italy, where we operate or license in approximately 145 rental locations throughout the country. Maggiore has a strong local reputation and benefits from a strong presence at airport, off-airport and railway locations and from the integration of our existing operations and rental fleet management expertise. Morini Rent, a leading vehicle rental brand in Italy, which offers rental of cars, vans and refrigerated vehicles and which we operate or license in approximately 50 rental locations throughout the country. FranceCars, which operates one of the largest light commercial vehicle rental fleets in France in approximately 85 rental locations and leverages our existing operational processes and local customer base. Turiscar, a leading vehicle rental brand in Portugal, which operates primarily in the corporate market, including light commercial vehicles, at more than 25 rental locations throughout the country. RESERVATIONS, MARKETING AND SALES Reservations Our customers can make vehicle rental reservations through our brand-specific websites and toll-free reservation centers, by calling a specific location directly, through our brand-specific mobile applications, online travel agencies, travel agents or through selected partners, including many major airlines, associations and retailers. Travel agents can access our reservation systems through all major global distribution systems, which provide information with respect to rental locations, vehicle availability and applicable rate structures. Our Zipcar members may reserve cars by the minute, hour or by the day through Zipcars reservation system, which is accessible through the Zipcar website, through the Zipcar application on their smartphone or by phone. 8 Table of Contents We also provide two-way SMS texting, enabling us to proactively reach out to members during their reservation via their mobile device to manage their reservation, including instant reservation extension. Marketing and Sales We support our brands through a range of marketing channels and campaigns, including traditional media, such as television and print advertising, as well as Internet and email marketing, social media and mobile device applications. We market through sponsorships of major sports entities such as the PGA Tour, Pebble Beach, the New York Yankees, the Toronto Maple Leafs, Toronto Raptors and Toronto FC. We also market through sponsorships of charitable organizations such as the Make-A-Wish Foundation and the Red Cross. We utilize a customer relationship management system that enables us to deliver more targeted and relevant offers to customers across online and offline channels and allows our customers to benefit through better and more relevant marketing, improved service delivery and loyalty programs that reward frequent renters with free rental days and car class upgrades. We maintain strong links to the travel industry including marketing alliances with numerous marketing partners, such as American Airlines, and major hotel companies. In addition, we have developed relationships that provide brand exposure and access to new customers, including deals to provide vehicles to ride-hail drivers in cities across North America. Approximately 60% of vehicle rental transactions in 2019 from our Company-operated Avis locations were generated by travelers who rented from Avis under contracts between Avis and their employers or through membership in an organization with which Avis has a contractual affiliation (such as AARP and Costco Wholesale). In 2019, the Company introduced Business Intelligence, an online portal complete with rental summary dashboards, visualizations and detailed reports that provides our corporate customers with insight into their programs performance, giving them direct access to more data in a customer-facing portal offering useful data insights, including options to customize and schedule reports. Avis also maintains marketing relationships with other organizations such as American Express, MasterCard International and others, through which we are able to provide their customers with incentives to rent from Avis. Generally, Avis licensees also have the option to participate in these affiliations. Additionally, we offer Unlimited Rewards , an award-winning loyalty incentive program for travel agents, and Avis and Budget programs for small businesses that offer discounted rates, central billing options and rental credits to members. Budget has contractual arrangements with American Express, MasterCard International and other organizations, which offer members incentives to rent from Budget. Our Zipcar brand also partners with other active lifestyle brands that appeal to our Zipcar members and we organize, sponsor and participate in charitable and community events with organizations that are important to our Zipcar members. Zipcar maintains close relationships with universities that allow us to market to the next generation consumer who, upon graduation, may continue their relationship with us and advocate for broad sponsorship of Zipcar membership at their places of work. Through our Zipcar for Business program, we also offer reduced weekday driving rates to employees of companies, federal agencies and local governments that sponsor the use of Zipcars. LICENSING We have licensees in approximately 175 countries throughout the world. Royalty fee revenues derived from our vehicle rental licensees in 2019 totaled $135 million , with approximately $95 million in our International segment and $40 million in our Americas segment. Licensed locations are independently operated by our licensees and range from large operations at major airport locations and territories encompassing entire countries to relatively small operations in suburban or rural locations. Our licensees generally maintain separate independently owned and operated fleets. Royalties generated from licensing provide us with a source of high-margin revenue because there are relatively limited additional costs associated with fees paid by licensees to us. We facilitate one-way vehicle rentals between Company-operated and licensed locations, which enables us to offer an integrated network of locations to our customers. 9 Table of Contents We generally enjoy good relationships with our licensees and meet regularly with them at regional, national and international meetings. Our relationships with our licensees are governed by license agreements that grant the licensee the right to operate independently operated vehicle rental businesses in certain territories. Our license agreements generally provide our licensees with the exclusive right to operate under one or more of our brands in their assigned territory. These agreements impose obligations on the licensee regarding its operations, and most agreements restrict the licensees ability to sell, transfer or assign its rights granted under the license agreement or to change the control of its ownership without our consent. The terms of our license agreements, including duration, royalty fees and termination provisions, vary based upon brand, territory, and original signing date. Royalty fees are generally structured to be a percentage of the licensees gross rental income. We maintain the right to monitor the operations of licensees and, when applicable, can declare a licensee to be in default under its license agreement. We perform audits as part of our program to assure licensee compliance with brand quality standards and contract provisions. Generally, we can terminate license agreements for certain defaults, including failure to pay royalties or to adhere to our operational standards. Upon termination of a license agreement, the licensee is prohibited from using our brand names and related marks in any business. In the United States, these license relationships constitute franchises under most federal and state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises and the relationship of the parties to a franchise agreement. We continue to optimize the Avis and Budget brands by issuing new license agreements and periodically acquiring licensees to grow our revenues and expand our global presence. Discussion of our recent acquisitions is included in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OTHER REVENUES In addition to revenues derived from time and mileage fees from our vehicle rentals and licensee royalties, we generate revenues from our customers through the sale and/or rental of optional ancillary products and services. We offer products to customers that will enhance their rental experience, including: collision and loss damage waivers, under which we agree to relieve a customer from financial responsibility arising from vehicle damage incurred during the rental; additional/supplemental liability insurance or personal accident/effects insurance products which provide customers with additional protections for personal or third-party losses incurred; products for driving convenience such as fuel service options, chauffeur drive services, roadside assistance services, electronic toll collection services, curbside delivery, tablet rentals, access to satellite radio, portable navigation units and child safety seat rentals; and products that supplement truck rental including automobile towing equipment and other moving accessories such as hand trucks, furniture pads and moving supplies. We offer customized bundling of certain of these ancillary products and services, allowing our customers to benefit from discounted pricing and providing customers the flexibility to add multiple products or services that suit their needs. We also receive payment from our customers for certain operating expenses that we incur, including vehicle licensing fees, as well as airport concession fees that we pay in exchange for the right to operate at airports and other locations. In addition, we collect membership fees in connection with our car sharing business. OUR FLEET We offer a wide variety of vehicles in our rental fleet, including luxury cars, specialty-use vehicles and light commercial vehicles. Our fleet consists primarily of vehicles from the current and immediately preceding model year. We maintain a single fleet of vehicles for Avis and Budget in countries where we operate both brands. The substantial majority of Zipcars fleet is dedicated to use by Zipcar. 10 Table of Contents Fleet Purchases We maintain a diverse rental fleet, in which no vehicle manufacturer represented more than 14% of our 2019 fleet purchases, and we regularly adjust our fleet levels to be consistent with demand. We participate in a variety of vehicle purchase programs with major vehicle manufacturers. The following presents the approximate percentage of fleet purchases by manufacturer in 2019 . * Includes all manufacturers for which fleet purchases were less than 5%. Fleet costs represented approximately 23% of our aggregate expenses in 2019 . Fleet costs can vary from year to year based on the prices at which we are able to purchase and dispose of rental vehicles. In 2019 , approximately 34% of our average rental fleet was comprised of the following: vehicles subject to agreements requiring automobile manufacturers to repurchase vehicles at a specified price during a specified time period or guarantee our rate of depreciation on the vehicles during a specified period of time; or vehicles subject to operating leases, which are subject to a fixed lease period and interest rate. We refer to vehicles subject to these agreements as program vehicles and vehicles not subject to these agreements as risk vehicles because we retain the risk associated with such vehicles residual values at the time of their disposition. The following graphs present the approximate percentage of program vehicles in both our average rental fleet and purchases within each of our reporting segments in the last three years. 11 Table of Contents Our agreements with automobile manufacturers typically require that we pay more for program vehicles and maintain them in our fleet for a minimum number of months and impose certain return conditions, including vehicle condition and mileage requirements. When we return program vehicles to the manufacturer, we receive the price guaranteed at the time of purchase and are therefore protected from fluctuations in the prices of previously-owned vehicles in the wholesale market. In 2019 , approximately 49% of the vehicles we disposed of were sold pursuant to repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs. The future percentages of program and risk vehicles in our fleet will depend on several factors, including our expectations for future used vehicle prices, our seasonal needs and the availability and attractiveness of manufacturers repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs. Fleet Dispositions We dispose of our risk vehicles largely through resale and alternative disposition channels, including direct-to-consumer, online auctions, retail lots and direct-to-dealer sales, as well as through more traditional automobile auctions. Alternative disposition channels provide the opportunity to increase vehicle sales prices and reduce relevant fleet costs compared to selling vehicles at auctions. We have continued to expand the scope of our direct-to-consumer vehicle sales program, growing sales of our risk vehicles directly to consumers through our Ultimate Test Drive online program and our approximately 15 physical retail locations, which offer customers the ability to purchase well-maintained, late-model rental vehicles from our fleet. We dispose of our program vehicles in accordance with repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs with major vehicle manufacturers. Fleet Utilization In 2019 , our average monthly vehicle rental fleet size ranged from a low of approximately 576,000 vehicles in January to a high of approximately 757,000 vehicles in July. Our average monthly car rental fleet size typically peaks in the summer months. Average fleet utilization for 2019 , which is based on the number of rental days (or portion thereof) that vehicles are rented compared to the total amount of time that vehicles are available for rent, ranged from 64% in January to 76% in July. Our calculation of utilization may not be comparable to other companies calculation of similarly titled metrics. Fleet Maintenance We place a strong emphasis on the quality of our vehicle maintenance for customer safety and customer satisfaction reasons, and because quick and proper repairs are critical to fleet utilization. To accomplish this task, we developed specialized training programs for our technicians. Our Maintenance and Damage Planning 12 Table of Contents Department prepares technical service bulletins that can be retrieved electronically at our repair locations. In addition, we have implemented policies and procedures to promptly address manufacturer recalls as part of our ongoing maintenance and repair efforts. CUSTOMER SERVICE Our commitment to delivering a consistently high level of customer service across all of our brands is a critical element of our success and business strategy. Our Customer Led, Service Driven program focuses on continually improving the overall customer experience based on our research of customer service practices, improved customer insights, executing our customer relationship management strategy, delivering customer-centric employee training and leverage our mobile applications technology and the enriched experience it provides our customers. The employees at our Company-operated locations are trained and empowered to resolve most customer issues at the location level. We also continuously track customer-satisfaction levels by sending location-specific surveys to recent customers and utilize detailed reports and tracking to assess and identify ways that we can improve our customer service delivery and the overall customer experience. Our location-specific surveys ask customers to evaluate their overall satisfaction with their rental experience and the likelihood that they will recommend our brands, as well as key elements of the rental experience. Results are analyzed in aggregate and by location to help further enhance our service levels to our customers. We understand our customers time is valuable and we offer rental options that provide greater control and self-service capabilities. While our mobile applications provide a fast customer experience, our customers know a company representative is always available to meet their needs. Our survey platform includes specific questions to learn more about individual preferences and find innovative ways to better serve and anticipate our customers needs. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 30,000 people worldwide, of whom approximately 8,800 were employed on a part-time basis. Of our approximately 30,000 employees, approximately 18,000 were employed in our Americas segment and 12,000 in our International segment. In our Americas segment, the majority of our employees are at-will employees and, therefore, not subject to any type of employment contract or agreement. Certain of our executive officers may be employed under employment contracts that may specify a term of employment and specify pay and other benefits. In our International segment, we enter into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary. The provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. Many of our employees are covered by a variety of union contracts and governmental regulations affecting, among other things, compensation, job retention rights and pensions. As of December 31, 2019 , approximately 27% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements with various labor unions. We believe our employee relations are satisfactory. AIRPORT CONCESSION AGREEMENTS We generally operate our vehicle rental and car sharing services at airports under concession agreements with airport authorities, pursuant to which we typically make airport concession payments and/or lease payments. In general, concession fees for on-airport locations are based on a percentage of total commissionable revenues (as defined by each airport authority), often subject to minimum annual guaranteed amounts. Concessions are typically awarded by airport authorities every three to ten years based upon competitive bids. Our concession agreements with the various airport authorities generally impose certain minimum operating requirements, provide for relocation in the event of future construction and provide for abatement of the minimum annual guarantee in the event of extended low passenger volume. 13 Table of Contents OTHER BUSINESS CONSIDERATIONS SEASONALITY Our operating results are subject to variability due to seasonality, macroeconomic conditions and other factors. Car rental volumes tend to be associated with the travel industry, particularly airline passenger volumes, or enplanements, which in turn tend to reflect general economic conditions. Our operations are also seasonal, with the third quarter of the year historically having been our strongest due to the increased level of leisure travel during the quarter. We have a partially variable cost structure and routinely adjust the size, and therefore the cost, of our rental fleet in response to fluctuations in demand. The following chart presents our quarterly revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2018 and 2019 . COMPETITION The competitive environment for our industry is generally characterized by intense price and service competition among global, local and regional competitors. Competition in our vehicle rental operations is based primarily upon price, customer service quality, including usability of booking systems and ease of rental and return, vehicle availability, reliability, rental locations, product innovation and national or international distribution. In addition, competition is also influenced strongly by advertising, marketing, loyalty programs and brand reputation. We believe the prominence and service reputation of our brands, extensive worldwide ownership of mobility solutions and commitment to innovation provides us with a competitive advantage. The use of technology has increased pricing transparency among vehicle rental companies and other mobility solutions providers enabling cost-conscious customers to more easily compare on the Internet and their mobile devices the rates available for the mobility solutions that fit their needs. This transparency has further increased the prevalence and intensity of price competition in the industry. Our vehicle rental operations compete primarily with Enterprise Holdings, Inc., which operates the Enterprise, National and Alamo car rental brands; Hertz Global Holdings, Inc., which operates the Hertz, Dollar and Thrifty brands; Europcar Mobility Group, which operates the Europcar, Goldcar, InterRent, Buchbinder and Ubeeqo brands; and Sixt AG. We also compete with smaller local and regional vehicle rental companies for vehicle rental market share, and with ride-hailing companies largely for short length trips in urban areas. Our Zipcar brand also competes with various local and regional mobility companies, including mobility services sponsored by several auto manufacturers, ride-hailing and car sharing companies and other technology players in the mobility industry. Our Budget Truck operations in the United States competes with several other local, regional and nationwide truck rental companies including U-Haul International, Inc., Penske Truck Leasing Corporation, Ryder Systems, Inc. and Enterprise. 14 Table of Contents INSURANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Our vehicle rental and corporate operations expose us to various types of claims for bodily injury, death and property damage related to the use of our vehicles and/or properties, as well as general employment-related matters stemming from our operations. We generally retain economic exposure for liability to third parties arising from vehicle rental and car sharing services in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, in accordance with the minimum financial responsibility requirements (MFRs) and primacy of coverage laws of the relevant jurisdiction. In certain cases, we assume liability above applicable MFRs, up to $1 million per occurrence, other than in cases involving a negligent act on the part of the Company, for which we purchase insurance coverage for exposures beyond retained amounts from a combination of unaffiliated excess insurers. In Europe, we insure the risk of liability to third parties arising from vehicle rental and car sharing services in accordance with local regulatory requirements primarily through insurance policies provided by unaffiliated insurers. We may retain a portion of the insured risk of liability through local deductibles, and by reinsuring certain risks through our captive insurance subsidiary AEGIS Motor Insurance Limited. In Australasia, motor vehicle bodily injury insurance coverage is compulsory and provided upon vehicle registration. In addition, we provide our customers with third-party property damage insurance through an unaffiliated third-party insurer. We retain a share of property damage risk through AEGIS Motor Insurance Limited. AEGIS Motor Insurance Limited reinsures certain risks through an unaffiliated company, which limits its liabilities. We insure the risk of liability to third parties in Argentina through unaffiliated insurers. We offer our U.S. customers a range of optional insurance products and coverages such as supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance, personal effects protection, emergency sickness protection, automobile towing protection and cargo insurance, which create additional risk exposure for us. When a customer elects to purchase supplemental liability insurance or other optional insurance related products, we typically retain economic exposure to loss, since the insurance is provided by an unaffiliated insurer that is reinsuring its exposure through our captive insurance subsidiary, Constellation Reinsurance Co., Ltd. Additional personal accident insurance offered to our customers in Europe and Australasia is provided by a third-party insurer, and reinsured by our Avis Budget Europe International Reinsurance Limited subsidiary. We also maintain excess insurance coverage through unaffiliated carriers to help mitigate our potential exposure to large liability losses. We otherwise bear these and other risks, except to the extent that the risks are transferred through insurance or contractual arrangements. OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely primarily on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, as well as contractual provisions with employees and third parties, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. The service marks Avis, Budget and Zipcar and related marks or designs incorporating such terms and related logos and marks such as We Try Harder, We Know The Road and Own The Trip, Not The Car are material to our vehicle rental and car sharing businesses. Our subsidiaries and licensees actively use these marks. All of the material marks used by Avis, Budget and Zipcar are registered (or have applications pending for registration) with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as well as in foreign jurisdictions. Our subsidiaries own the marks and other intellectual property, including the Wizard system, used in our business. We also own trademarks and logos related to the Apex Car Rentals brand in Australia and New Zealand, the Payless Car Rental brand in the United States and several other countries, the Maggiore and Morini Rent brands in Italy, the FranceCars brand in France and the Turiscar brand in Portugal. Our subsidiaries have also filed patent applications pertaining to fleet and connected car technology in the U.S. and other countries. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Avis Budget Group, we take our responsibilities as a corporate citizen seriously. We are aware of how our actions can benefit the community and are sensitive to the needs of the environment, our customers and our employees. Our practices in corporate social responsibility focus on our people, our communities, and our planet. We are committed to the highest standards of ethics, integrity and compliance in all respects of our business. 15 Table of Contents Our People: We believe that our success has its foundation in how we treat our employees. In concert with our core values, we seek to foster an environment where communication among our employees is open, honest, and respectful; performance is recognized; growth is encouraged; and accomplishments - individual and collective - are celebrated. We also seek to support the well-being and development of the people we employ and the communities in which they work. The following initiatives reflect our commitment to achieving these goals: Diversity and Inclusion: We are committed to providing equal employment opportunity to all applicants and employees without regard to race, religion, color, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, age, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, protected veteran or disability status or any factor prohibited by law, and as such we affirm in policy and practice to support and promote the concept of equal employment opportunity and affirmative action, in accordance with all applicable federal, state, provincial and municipal laws. As an equal-opportunity employer, we are proud to provide an inclusive workplace that embraces and celebrates demographic, cultural and lifestyle differences. Employee Benefits: We care about our employees and their families. We strive to offer them comprehensive and high value benefits programs that take care of their health and financial needs. Our Communities : We help and encourage our employees to connect to the communities in which they reside. Through our Inspire the World program we challenge our employees to dedicate an hour of their time to a local cause close to their hearts. As well as empowering our employees to volunteer in their local communities, we are committed to helping a variety of causes and charities that support people in crisis situations and who live with life-threatening illnesses. Those we support were chosen because our employees told us that charities that support women and children are the most important to them. Being Prepared When Disaster Strikes: Over the past seventy years, we have developed strong competencies in responding to business disruptions. Whether the disruption is man-made or an extreme weather event such as a hurricane, flood or wildfire, our business continuity programs are central to how we respond in times of crisis. Our programs focus is on preparing and protecting our people, property and infrastructure. We utilize an all hands on deck approach within our incident management and command structure to ensure that we respond as rapidly and effectively as possible. We have also developed longstanding partnerships with leading national disaster response agencies, which strengthen our ability to provide support to affected customers, employees and communities. The Environment: As a responsible corporate citizen, we are committed to monitoring, measuring and managing our environmental impact, and working to reduce it where practicable on an ongoing basis. This enables us to meet customer expectations while building a resilient business for generations to come. The following illustrates these commitments: Environmental Footprint: Through our continuous improvement approach, we work proactively to address the environmental challenges that impact our business. Guided by our Environmental Policy, we focus on the environmental issues most important to us and our stakeholders. Sustainable Operations: We are driving the efficiencies needed to reduce our environmental impact and enhance the sustainability of our operations. These are mainly driven by improvements on vehicle preventive maintenance, the incorporation of green building practices and by complying with all environmental regulations. Carbon Offset Program: We are committed to helping educate both consumers and travel professionals on their environmental impact from rental car use and on how that can be reduced. We also work closely with our corporate customers to help them achieve their environmental impact reduction targets through our carbon offset program. Sustainable Fleet: We have been actively anticipating and driving changes in mobility. Connected and autonomous vehicles are likely to become a common feature worldwide, along with an increase use of electric and shared vehicles, which is why were building on our core experience, data intelligence and technology to develop entirely new lines of business and extend our offering and capabilities for our customers, businesses and cities. Our efforts include: 16 Table of Contents Car Sharing: Our Zipcar car sharing technology was designed and specifically built for our car sharing business and has been continually refined and upgraded. With more than one million members worldwide, Zipcar is taking thousands of vehicles off the road and reducing congestion. In addition, car sharing members report notable reductions in their own driving behavior after joining. Connected Vehicles: Connected vehicles support our ability to reduce emissions through a steadfast focus on fleet maintenance and optimization . Fleet Efficiency: We offer our customers the opportunity to choose from a wide variety of vehicles, including hybrids, electric or fuel efficient vehicles at almost all of our locations. Our fleet consists primarily of vehicles from the current and immediately preceding model year - this ensures the highest possible standards of air emissions control. Our hybrid fleet is one of the largest in our industry with 19,000+ hybrid vehicles globally . Our most recent Corporate Social Responsibility Report (CSR) is available on the Companys website. The information contained on the Companys website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. REGULATION We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, including those relating to, among others, consumer protection, insurance products and rates, franchising, customer privacy and data protection, securities and public disclosure, competition and antitrust, environmental matters, taxes, automobile-related liability, corruption and anti-bribery, labor and employment matters, health and safety, claims management, automotive retail sales, currency-exchange and other various banking and financial industry regulations, cost and fee recovery, the protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property, and local ownership or investment requirements. Additional information about the regulations that we are subject to can be found in Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. COMPANY INFORMATION Our principal executive office is located at 6 Sylvan Way, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054 (our telephone number is 973-496-4700). The Company files electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 11-K; proxy materials; registration statements and other forms or reports as required. Certain of the Companys officers, directors and stockholders also file statements of beneficial ownership and of changes in beneficial ownership on Forms 3, 4 and 5 with the SEC. Such materials may be accessed electronically on the SECs Internet site (sec.gov). The Company maintains a website (avisbudgetgroup.com) and copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 reports, proxy materials and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished with the SEC are available free of charge in the Investor Relations section of our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. Copies of our board committee charters, Codes of Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines and other corporate governance information are also available on our website. If the Company should decide to amend any of its board committee charters, Codes of Conduct and Ethics or other corporate governance documents, copies of such amendments will be made available to the public through the Companys website. The information contained on the Companys website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a cautionary discussion of the most significant risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business and should be considered carefully in conjunction with all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not an exhaustive list of the risks that we face and are not listed by order of priority or materiality. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the factors described in this item could, individually or in the aggregate, cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. Should unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could materially differ from past results and/or those anticipated, estimated or projected. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We face risks related to the high level of competition in the mobility industry. The mobility industry is highly competitive, with price being one of the primary competitive factors. To the extent that our competitors reduce their pricing and we do not provide competitive pricing, or if price increases we implement make us less competitive, we risk losing rental volume from existing customers, as well as lessening the chances of success for future bids for new customer accounts. If competitive pressures lead us to lose rental volume or match any downward pricing and we are unable to reduce our operating costs, then our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Additionally, pricing in the vehicle rental industry is impacted by the size of rental fleets and the supply of vehicles available for rent. Any significant fluctuations in the supply of rental vehicles available in the market due to an unexpected decrease in demand, or actions taken by our competitors that increases fleet significantly above market demand, could negatively affect our pricing, operating plans or results of operations if we are unable to adjust the size of our rental fleet in response to fluctuations in supply and demand. The competitive environment for our mobility services has become more intense as additional companies, including automobile manufacturers, ride-hailing companies, car sharing companies and other technology players in the mobility industry enter our existing markets or expand their operations. Companies offering new mobility business models, including ride-hailing or car sharing services may affect demand for rental vehicles. Some of these companies may have access to substantial capital, innovative technologies or have the ability to provide services at a relatively low cost. To the extent these companies can improve transportation efficiency, alter driving patterns or attitudes toward vehicle rental, offer more competitive prices or fleet management services, more effectively utilize mobile platforms, undertake more aggressive marketing campaigns, price their competing services below market or otherwise disrupt the mobility industry, we risk heightened pricing competition and/or loss of rental volume, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations if we are unable to compete with such efforts. The risk of competition on the basis of pricing in the truck rental industry can be even more impactful than in the car rental industry as it can be more difficult to reduce the size of our truck rental fleet in response to significantly reduced demand. We face risks related to fleet costs. Fleet costs typically represent our single largest expense and can vary from year to year based on the prices that we are able to purchase and dispose of our vehicles. We purchase program vehicles, which are guaranteed a rate of depreciation through agreements with auto manufacturers, and non-program, or risk vehicles. In 2019 , on average approximately 66% of our rental fleet was comprised of risk vehicles. The costs of our risk vehicles may be adversely impacted by the relative strength of the used car market, particularly the market for one- to two-year old used vehicles, or potentially by the insolvency or bankruptcy of an auto manufacturer from whom we purchase vehicles. We currently sell risk vehicles through various sales channels in the used vehicle marketplace, including traditional auctions, on-line auctions, direct-to-dealer sales 18 Table of Contents and directly to consumers through either retail lots or our Ultimate Test Drive consumer car sales program. These channels may not produce stable vehicle prices in the future, as the market for used vehicles is subject to changes in demand for such vehicles, consumer interests, inventory levels, new car pricing, interest rates, fuel costs, tariffs and general economic conditions. A reduction in residual values for risk vehicles in our rental fleet could cause us to sustain a substantial loss on the ultimate sale of such vehicles or require us to depreciate those vehicles at a more accelerated rate than previously anticipated while we own them. If the market value of the vehicles in our fleet is reduced or our ability to sell vehicles in the used vehicle marketplace were to become severely limited, we may have difficulty meeting collateral requirements due under our asset-backed financing facilities, which could lead to decreased capacity in such facilities and effectively increase our fleet costs or adversely impact our profitability. In addition, if we are unable to meet our collateral requirements under such facilities, the outstanding principal amount due may be required to be repaid earlier than anticipated. If that were to occur, the holders of our asset-backed debt may have the ability to exercise their right to instruct the trustee to direct the return of program vehicles and/or the sale of risk vehicles to generate proceeds sufficient to repay such debt. Program and leased vehicles enable us to determine our depreciation expense in advance of purchase. Our program and leased vehicles also generally provide us with flexibility to reduce the size of our fleet rapidly. This flexibility would be affected as the percentage of program vehicles in our fleet is reduced, or if the features of the programs provided by auto manufacturers are less favorable. Our inability to reduce the size of our fleet in response to seasonal demand fluctuations, economic constraints or other changes in demand could have an adverse impact on our fleet costs and results of operations. Failure by a manufacturer to fulfill its obligations under any program agreement or incentive payment obligation, due to insolvency, bankruptcy or other reasons, could leave us with a material expense if we are unable to dispose of program vehicles at prices estimated at the time of purchase or with a substantial unpaid claim against the manufacturer, particularly with respect to program vehicles that were either (i) resold for an amount less than the amount guaranteed under the applicable program and therefore subject to a true-up payment obligation from the manufacturer; or (ii) returned to the manufacturer, but for which we were not yet paid, and therefore we could incur a substantial loss as a result of such failure to perform. While we source our fleet purchases from a wide range of auto manufacturers, we are exposed to risk to the extent that any auto manufacturer significantly curtails production, increases the cost of vehicles or declines to sell vehicles to us on terms or at prices consistent with past practice. Should any of these risks occur, we may be unable to obtain a sufficient number of vehicles to operate our business without significantly increasing our fleet costs or reducing our volumes. We face risks related to safety recalls affecting our vehicles. Our vehicles may be subject to safety recalls by their manufacturers, which could have an adverse impact on our business when we remove recalled vehicles from our rentable fleet. We cannot control nor predict the number of vehicles that will be subject to manufacturer recalls in the future. Recalls often require us to retrieve vehicles from customers and/or hold vehicles until we can arrange for the repairs described in the recalls to be completed. As such, recalls can result in incremental costs, negatively impact our revenues and/or reduce our fleet utilization. If a large number of vehicles were to be the subject of one or more recalls, or if needed replacement parts were not in adequate supply, we may be unable to utilize recalled vehicles for a significant period of time. We could also face liability claims related to vehicles subject to a safety recall. Depending on the nature and severity of the recall, it could create customer service problems, reduce the residual value of the vehicles involved, harm our general reputation and/or have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Weakness in travel demand or general economic conditions, or a significant increase in fuel costs, can adversely impact our business. Demand for vehicle rentals is generally subject to and impacted by international, national and local economic conditions and travel demand. When travel demand or economic conditions in the United States, Europe and/or worldwide weakens, our financial condition and results of operations are often adversely impacted. 19 Table of Contents Any significant airline capacity reductions, airfare or related fee increases, reduced flight schedules, or any events that disrupt or reduce business or leisure air travel or weaken travel demand and tourism, such as work stoppages, military conflicts, terrorist incidents, natural disasters, disease epidemics, or the response of governments to any such events, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. For instance, the ongoing coronavirus outbreak emanating from China at the beginning of 2020 has resulted in increased travel restrictions. In addition, any significant increases in fuel prices, a severe protracted disruption in fuel supplies or rationing of fuel could discourage our customers from renting vehicles or reduce or disrupt air travel, which could also adversely impact our results of operations. Our truck rental business can be impacted by the housing market. If conditions in the housing market were to weaken, we may see a reduction in truck rental transactions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Our truck rental business can be impacted by changes in the light commercial business sector. If the light commercial business develops their own package delivery service with a fleet of trucks and vans to use for their business, or other large competitors enter the package delivery service industry, in particular around the holiday season, we may see a reduction in truck rental transactions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We face risks related to our ability to successfully implement our business strategies and to preserve the value of our brands. Our strategic objectives involve winning and retaining customers through supporting and strengthening our brands, increasing operational efficiency and margins and enhancing our position in the evolving mobility industry. We see significant potential in the areas of optimizing our pricing, customer mix and sales of ancillary products and services, optimizing our procurement, deployment and disposition of vehicles, including increased use of non-auction channels for selling our risk vehicles; and applying connected-car/in-vehicle systems and other emerging technologies in our operations. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our strategic initiatives, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. The Company continues to further streamline its administrative and shared-services infrastructure that identifies and replicates best practices, leverages the scale and capabilities of third-party service providers and is designed to increase the global standardization and consolidation of non-rental-location functions over time. We cannot be certain that such initiatives will continue to be successful. Failure to successfully implement any of these initiatives could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Any failure to adapt to changes in the mobility industry, provide a high-quality rental experience for our customers and members, adopt new technologies, capitalize on cost saving initiatives or meet customer needs could substantially harm our reputation and competitiveness and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks related to political, economic and commercial instability or uncertainty in the countries in which we operate. Our global operations expose us to risks related to international, national and local economic and political conditions and instability. For example, our operations in the United Kingdom include a significant amount of cross-border business that could be negatively impacted by the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union will have and how such withdrawal would affect our operations. The withdrawal could lead to volatility in the global financial markets, adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes and could impact the economies of the United Kingdom and other countries in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results in such countries. Operating our business in a number of different regions and countries exposes us to a number of other risks, including: multiple and potentially conflicting laws, regulations, trade policies and agreements that are subject to change; varying tax regimes, including consequences from changes in applicable tax laws; 20 Table of Contents the imposition of currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or other restraints, as well as difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; potential changes to import-export laws, trade treaties or tariffs in the countries where we purchase vehicles; international trade disruptions or disputes, including in connection with the ongoing trade negotiations between the United States and China; local ownership or investment requirements, or compliance with local laws, regulations or business practices; uncertainty and changes to political and regulatory regimes as a result of changing social, political, regulatory and economic environments in the United States and internationally; national and international conflict, including terrorist acts; and political and economic instability or civil unrest that may severely disrupt economic activity in affected countries. Exposure to these risks may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our licensees vehicle rental operations may also be impacted by political, economic and commercial instability, which in turn could impact the amount of royalty payments they make to us. We face risks related to third-party distribution channels that we rely upon. We rely upon third-party distribution channels to generate a significant portion of our vehicle rental reservations, including: traditional and online travel agencies, airlines and hotel companies, marketing partners such as credit card companies and membership organizations and other entities that help us attract customers; and global distribution systems (GDS), such as Amadeus, Galileo/Apollo, Sabre and Worldspan, that connect travel agents, travel service providers and corporations to our reservation systems. Changes in our pricing agreements, commission schedules or arrangements with third-party distribution channels, the termination of any of our relationships or a reduction in the transaction volume of such channels, or a GDSs inability to process and communicate reservations to us could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations, particularly if our customers are unable to access our reservation systems through alternate channels. We face risks related to our reliance on communications networks and centralized information systems. We rely heavily on the satisfactory performance and availability of our information systems, including our reservation systems, websites and network infrastructure to attract and retain customers, accept reservations, process rental and sales transactions, manage our fleet of vehicles, account for our activities and otherwise conduct our business. We have centralized our information systems and we rely on third-party communications service and system providers to provide technology services and link our systems with the business locations these systems were designed to serve. We have been subjected to, and from time to time in the future may be subject to, a failure or interruption that results in the unavailability of certain of our information systems. Such a failure or interruption, or a major disruption of communications between a system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of reservations, interfere with our fleet management, slow rental and sales processes, create negative publicity that damages our reputation or otherwise adversely impacts our ability to manage our business effectively. We may experience system interruptions or disruptions for a variety of reasons, including as the result of network failures, power outages, cyber attacks, employee errors, software errors, an unusually high volume of visitors attempting to access our systems, or localized conditions such as fire, explosions or power outages or broader geographic events such as earthquakes, storms, floods, epidemics, strikes, acts of war, civil unrest or 21 Table of Contents terrorist acts. Because we are dependent in part on independent third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our systems and because some of the causes of system interruptions may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. Our systems business continuity plans and insurance programs seek to mitigate such risks but they cannot fully eliminate the risks as a disruption could be experienced in any of our information systems. We face risks related to cybersecurity breaches of our systems and information technology. Threats to network and data security are becoming increasingly diverse and sophisticated. As cybersecurity threats become more frequent, intense and sophisticated, costs of proactive defense measures may increase. Third parties may have the technology or expertise to breach the security of our customer transaction data and our security measures may not prevent physical security or cybersecurity breaches, which could result in substantial harm to our business, our reputation or our results of operations. We rely on encryption and/or authentication technology licensed from and, at times, administered by independent third parties to secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers and other customer personal information. Our outsourcing agreements with these third-party service providers, including third-party hosted cloud environments, generally require that they have adequate security systems in place to protect our customer transaction data. Despite the implementation of cybersecurity measures (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring, and maintenance of backup and protective systems), our information technology systems or those used by our third-party service providers may still be vulnerable to a breach. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures, or those of the third-party service providers we use, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Risks of cybersecurity incidents caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, could include hacking, viruses, malicious software, ransomware, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks and other attempts to capture, disrupt or gain unauthorized access to data are rapidly evolving and could lead to disruptions in our reservation system or other data systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information or corruption of data. The techniques used by third parties change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. Any successful efforts by individuals to infiltrate, break into, disrupt, damage or otherwise steal from the Companys, its licensees or its third-party service providers security or information systems could damage our reputation and expose us to increased cybersecurity protection costs, litigation or other liability that could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. A cybersecurity breach resulting in the unauthorized use or disclosure of certain personal information could put individuals at risk of identity theft and financial or other harm and result in costs to the Company in investigation, remediation, legal defense and in liability to parties who are financially harmed. Failure to appropriately address these issues could also give rise to potentially material legal risks and liabilities. We face risks related to our property leases and vehicle rental concessions. We lease or have vehicle rental concessions at locations throughout the world, including at most airports where we operate and at train stations throughout Europe, where vehicle rental companies are frequently required to bid periodically for space at these locations. If we were to lose a property lease or vehicle rental concession, particularly at an airport or a train station in a major metropolitan area, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find a suitable replacement location on reasonable terms which could adversely impact our business. We face risks related to the seasonality of our business. In our business, the third quarter of the year has historically been our most profitable quarter, as measured by net income and Adjusted EBITDA, due to the increased level of summer leisure travel and household moving activity. We vary our fleet size over the course of the year to help manage seasonal variations in demand, as well as localized changes in demand that we may encounter in the various regions in which we operate. Any circumstance or occurrence that disrupts rental activity during the third quarter, especially in North America and Europe, could have a disproportionately adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on our senior management and other key personnel. Our future success depends on key members of our senior management team and other key personnel, our ability to effectively recruit, retain and motivate high quality employees, and replace those who retire or resign. In 22 Table of Contents May 2019, we announced the departure of our President and Chief Executive Officer, effective December 31, 2019. On December 30, 2019, we announced that our President, Americas, would assume the role of President and Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis while the search process for a permanent chief executive officer continues. The loss of services of one or more of the other key members of our senior management team or other key personnel could impact our operations, ability to execute our strategies and adversely affect our business and operating results. We face risks related to acquisitions, including the acquisition of existing licensees or investments in or partnerships with other related businesses. We may engage in strategic transactions, including the acquisition of, or investment in, existing licensees and/or other businesses, partnerships or joint ventures with other companies. The risks involved in engaging in these types of transactions include the possible failure to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses, or to realize expected benefits within the anticipated time frame, or at all, such as cost savings, synergies, sales and growth opportunities. In addition, the integration of an acquired business or oversight of a partnership or joint venture may result in material unanticipated challenges, expenses, liabilities or competitive responses, including: inconsistencies between our standards, procedures and policies and those of an acquired business, partnership and/or joint venture; costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration of our operational and administrative systems; the increased scope and complexity of our operations could require significant attention from management and could impose constraints on our operations or other projects; unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions, including required regulatory or other third-party approvals or consents, or provisions in contracts with third parties that could limit our flexibility to take certain actions; an inability to retain the customers, employees, suppliers and/or marketing partners of an acquired business, partnership or joint venture or generate new customers or revenue opportunities through a strategic partnership; the costs of compliance with local laws and regulations and the implementation of compliance processes, as well as the assumption of unexpected liabilities, litigation, penalties or other enforcement actions; exposure to undetected malware and viruses embedded in the acquired IT systems of the acquired entity; and higher than expected costs arising due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies. Any one of these factors could result in delays, increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues related to combining the companies or derived from a strategic transaction and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks related to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our operations generate revenue and incur operating costs in a variety of currencies. The financial position and results of operations of many of our foreign subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in exchange rates among these currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect, among other things, the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements. While we take steps to manage our currency exposure, such as currency hedging, we may not be able to effectively limit our exposure to intermediate- or long-term movements in currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We face risks related to our derivative instruments. We typically utilize derivative instruments to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and gasoline prices. The derivative instruments we use to manage our risk are usually in the form of interest rate swaps and caps and foreign exchange and commodity contracts. Periodically, we are required to determine the change in fair value, called the mark-to-market, of some of these derivative instruments, which could expose us to substantial mark-to-market losses or gains if such rates or prices fluctuate materially from the time we entered into the derivatives. Accordingly, volatility in rates or prices may adversely impact our financial position or results of operations and could impact the cost and effectiveness of our derivative instruments in managing our risks. We face risks related to liability and insurance. Our global operations expose us to several forms of liability, including claims for bodily injury, death and property damage related to the use of our vehicles, or for having our customers on our premises, as well as workers compensation and other employment-related claims by our employees. We may become exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our historical levels. In addition, liabilities related to existing or future claims may exceed the level of our reserves and/or our insurance, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, insurance with unaffiliated insurers may not continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all. Should we be subject to an adverse ruling, or experience other significant liability for which we did not plan and are unable to adequately insure against such liability, our results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be negatively impacted. We reinsure certain insurance exposures as well as offer optional insurance coverages through unaffiliated third-party insurers that then reinsure all or a portion of their risks through our insurance company subsidiaries, which subjects us to regulation under various insurance laws and statutes in the jurisdictions in which our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled. Any changes in regulations that alter or impede our reinsurance obligations or insurance subsidiary operations could adversely impact the economic benefits that we rely upon to support our reinsurance efforts, which in turn would adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Optional insurance products that we offer to renters in the United States, including, but not limited to, supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance and personal effects protection, are regulated under state laws governing such products. Our vehicle rental operations outside the United States must also comply with certain local laws and regulations regarding the sale of supplemental liability and personal accident and effects insurance by intermediaries. Any changes in law that affect our operating requirements with respect to our sale of optional insurance products could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenue and profitability. Should more of our customers decline to purchase optional liability insurance products as a result of any changes in these laws or otherwise, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. We offer loss damage waivers to our customers as an option for them to reduce their financial responsibility that may be incurred as a result of loss or damage to the rental vehicle. Certain states in the United States have enacted legislation that mandates disclosure to each customer at the time of rental that damage to the rented vehicle may be covered to some extent by the customers personal automobile insurance and that loss damage waivers may not be necessary. In addition, some states have statutes that establish or cap the daily rate that can be charged for loss damage waivers. Should new laws or regulations arise that place new limits on our ability to offer loss damage waivers to our customers, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, current U.S. federal law pre-empts state laws that impute tort liability based solely on ownership of a vehicle involved in an accident. If such federal law were to change, our insurance liability exposure could materially increase. We may be unable to collect amounts that we believe are owed to us by customers, insurers and other third parties related to vehicle damage claims or liabilities. The inability to collect such amounts in a timely manner or to the extent that we expect could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Costs associated with lawsuits, investigations or increases in legal reserves that we establish based on our assessment of contingent liabilities may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our global operations expose us to various claims, lawsuits and other legal proceedings that arise in and outside of the ordinary course of our business in the countries in which we operate. We may be subject to complaints and/or litigation involving our customers, licensees, employees, independent operators and others with whom we conduct business, including claims for bodily injury, death and property damage related to use of our vehicles or our locations, or claims based on allegations of discrimination, misclassification as exempt employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act, wage and hourly pay disputes, and various other claims. We could be subject to substantial costs and/or adverse outcomes from such complaints or litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. At some of our locations, we outsource to third party independent contractors who operate the business as a separate entity. The independent contractors are paid a commission for operating their business under our brands. There is a growing trend in the United States aimed at the gig economy to define independent contractors as employees. As such, we are subject to legislative and or judicial determination that any such changes are applicable to these independent contractors. Such determinations may require us to change the business operations and make such independent contractor locations employee operated. This could potentially expose us to additional costs and material liability under federal and state labor and employment and tax laws. From time to time, our Company may be reviewed or investigated by government regulators, which could lead to tax assessments, enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, taxes, fines or penalties or enter into settlements of lawsuits or claims that could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to exposure for certain types of legal claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against any such claims. We face risks related to laws and regulations that could impact our global operations. We are subject to multiple, and sometimes conflicting, laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate that relate to, among others, consumer protection, competition and antitrust, customer privacy and data protection, securities and public disclosure, automotive retail sales, franchising, corruption and anti-bribery, environmental matters, taxes, automobile-related liability, labor and employment matters, cost and fee recovery, currency-exchange and other various banking and financial industry regulations, health and safety, insurance rates and products, claims management, protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property and other trade-related laws and regulations. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of certain of these laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar foreign laws and regulations. Our continued global operations and expansion could increase the risk of governmental investigations and violations of such laws. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our global operations may be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws may be administered or interpreted. Any alleged or actual violations of any law or regulation, change in law, regulation, trade treaties or tariffs, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, limit our ability to provide services in any of the countries in which we operate and could result in a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position or results of operations. In certain countries where we have Company-operated locations, we may recover certain costs from consumers, including costs associated with the title and registration of our vehicles, or concession costs imposed by an airport authority or the owner and/or operator of the premises from which our vehicles are rented. We may in the future be subject to potential laws or regulations that could negatively impact our ability to separately state, charge and recover such costs, which could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. In recognition of the contribution that our various operations located in different countries provide to the global network, we have implemented a new transfer pricing policy. We expect to seek Advanced Pricing Agreements in 2020 with certain tax authorities to obtain certainty regarding our new transfer pricing policy and we expect to enter into agreements with foreign tax authorities that reduce or defer the amount of tax we pay. The process of 25 Table of Contents negotiating and ultimately entering into these agreements may take several years. The ultimate results of our negotiations of these agreements with tax authorities, the expiration of such agreements, or changes in circumstances or in the interpretation of such agreements could increase our tax costs in these jurisdictions. Many countries routinely examine transfer pricing policies of taxpayers subject to their jurisdiction, challenge transfer pricing practices aggressively where there is potential non-compliance and impose significant interest charges and penalties where non-compliance is determined. To the extent we do not have an existing Advance Pricing Agreement or other agreement, governmental authorities could challenge our transfer pricing policy in the future and, if challenged, we may not prevail, which could increase our tax costs or reduce savings related to our transfer pricing policy. We are subject to privacy, data protection, security transfer and other regulations, as well as private industry standards, which could negatively impact our global operations and cause us to incur additional incremental expense that impacts our future operating results. Our business requires the secure processing and storage of sensitive information relating to our customers, employees, business partners and others. Current consumer privacy and data protection laws, particularly the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA), and other regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate limit the types of information that we may collect, process, sell and retain about our customers and other individuals with whom we deal or propose to deal, some of which may be non-public personally identifiable information. The GDPR and CCPA, are each wide-ranging in scope, provides the European Union and California residents, respectively, greater control over their personal data and imposes several requirements relating to the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, the security and confidentiality of the personal data, data breach notification, the use of third-party processors in connection with the processing of personal data, and the transfer or sale of personal data. It also imposes significant forfeitures and penalties for noncompliance and affords private rights of action to individuals under certain circumstances. The Company has adopted policies and procedures in compliance with the GDPR and CCPA, respectively; however, such policies and procedures may need to be updated as additional information concerning best practices are made available through guidance from regulatory authorities or published enforcement decisions. Other privacy laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country, or from state to state in the U.S., and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. Complying with varying jurisdictional privacy requirements could increase our operating costs, divert management attention or require additional changes to our business practices. Should we be found to not be in compliance with the GDPR, CCPA or similar privacy and data protection laws, we could be subject to substantial monetary forfeitures, government consent decrees and other penalties that could negatively impact our operating results or harm our reputation. The centralized nature of our information systems requires the routine flow of information about customers and potential customers across national borders, particularly in the United States and Europe. Should this flow of information become illegal or subject to onerous restrictions, our ability to serve our customers could be negatively impacted for an extended period of time. In addition, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether as a result of our own error or the actions of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities that adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Privacy and data protection laws and regulations restrict the ways that we process our transaction information and the Payment Card Industry imposes strict customer credit card data security standards to ensure that our customers credit card information is protected. Failure to meet these data security standards could result in substantial increased fees to credit card companies, other liabilities and/or loss of the right to collect credit card payments, which could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks related to environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a wide variety of environmental laws and regulations in connection with our operations, including, among other things, with respect to the ownership or use of tanks for the storage of petroleum products such as gasoline, diesel fuel and motor and waste oils; the treatment or discharge of waste waters; and the generation, storage, transportation and off-site treatment or disposal of solid or liquid wastes. We maintain liability insurance covering storage tanks at our locations. In the United States, we administer an environmental compliance program designed to ensure that these tanks are properly registered in the jurisdiction in which they are located and are in compliance with applicable technical and operational requirements. The tank systems located at each of our locations may not at all times remain free from undetected leaks, and the use of these 26 Table of Contents tanks has resulted in, and from time to time in the future may result in, spills, which may be significant and may require remediation and expose us to material uninsured liability or liabilities in excess of insurance. We may also be subject to requirements related to the remediation of substances that have been released into the environment at properties owned or operated by us or at properties to which we send substances for treatment or disposal. Such remediation requirements may be imposed without regard to fault and liability for environmental remediation can be substantial. These remediation requirements and other environmental regulations differ depending on the country where the property is located. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including, among others, expenditures for the remediation of contamination at our owned and leased properties, as well as contamination at other locations at which our wastes have reportedly been identified. Our compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations may, however, require material expenditures by us or otherwise have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Environmental regulatory authorities are likely to continue to pursue measures related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, including vehicle travel restrictions. Should rules establishing limitations on greenhouse gas or other emissions or rules imposing fees on entities deemed to be responsible for greenhouse gas emission, or rules establishing bans on diesel or fuel vehicles from entering certain locations become effective in the countries in which we operate, demand for our services could be affected, our fleet and/or other costs could increase, and our business could be adversely impacted. We face risks related to vehicle electrification. Vehicle electrification refers to a range of technologies that uses electricity to propel a vehicle and includes hybrid, plug-in, extended range and battery electric vehicles, as well as autonomous vehicles. We believe that the vehicle industry will continue to experience significant change in the coming years, in particular as it relates to vehicle electrification. Worldwide demand for electric and hybrid vehicles continues to increase, and manufacturers continue to invest more time and cost into producing these types of vehicles to reduce fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, as mandated by various governmental standards and regulations. We continue to face pressure to ensure our fleet has both electric and hybrid vehicles both from consumer demand, and from our purchase agreements with various vehicle manufacturers. Our hybrid fleet is one of the largest in our industry with over 19,000 hybrid vehicles globally, however, this still remains only a fraction of our overall fleet. In addition, autonomous, or self driving vehicles are being tested and produced by various auto manufacturers globally at a rapid pace. We currently do not have any autonomous vehicles in our fleet. If we are not adequately prepared to meet consumer demand for electric, hybrid and autonomous vehicles as such demand develops, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. We face risks related to franchising or licensing laws and regulations. We license to third parties the right to operate locations using our brands in exchange for royalty payments. Our licensing activities are subject to various laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. In particular, laws in the United States require that we provide extensive disclosure to prospective licensees in connection with licensing offers and sales, as well as comply with franchise relationship laws that could limit our ability to, among other things, terminate license agreements or withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements. We are also subject to certain regulations affecting our license arrangements in Europe and other international locations. Should our operations become subject to new laws or regulations that negatively impact our ability to engage in licensing activities, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. We face risks related to the actions of, or failures to act by, our licensees, dealers, independent operators or third-party vendors. Our vehicle rental licensee and dealer locations are independently owned and operated. We also operate many of our Company-owned locations through agreements with independent operators, which are third-party independent contractors who receive commissions to operate such locations. We also enter into service contracts with various third-party vendors that provide services for us or in support of our business. Under our agreements with our licensees, dealers, independent operators and third-party vendors (collectively referred to as third-party operators), the third-party operators retain control over the employment and management of all personnel at their 27 Table of Contents locations or in support of the services that they provide our Company. These agreements also generally require that third-party operators comply with all laws and regulations applicable to their businesses, including relevant internal policies and standards. Regulators, courts or others may seek to hold us responsible for the actions of, or failures to act by, third-party operators or their employees based on theories of vicarious liability, negligence, joint operations or joint employer liability. Although we actively monitor the operations of these third-party operators, and under certain circumstances have the ability to terminate their agreements for failure to adhere to contracted operational standards, we are unlikely to detect all misconduct or noncompliance by a third-party operator or its employees. It is our policy to vigorously seek to be dismissed from any claims involving third-party operators and to pursue indemnity for any adverse outcomes that affect the Company. Failure of third-party operators to comply with laws and regulations or our operational standards, or our inability to be dismissed from claims against our third-party operators, may expose us to liability, damages and negative publicity that may damage our brand and reputation and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks related to our protection of our intellectual property. We have registered certain marks and designs as trademarks in the United States and in certain other countries. At times, competitors may adopt service names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. In addition, we have been subject to, and from time to time in the future may be subject to, trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our registered trademarks. From time to time, we have acquired or attempted to acquire Internet domain names held by others when such names have caused consumer confusion or had the potential to cause consumer confusion. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights related to trademarks, trade secrets, domain names, copyrights or other intellectual property may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks associated with tax reform. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act), signed into law in 2017, eliminated the use of like-kind exchange for personal property and also included a provision allowing for full expensing of qualified property purchases through the year 2022. Since 2004, we have utilized a like-kind exchange program whereby we replace vehicles in a manner that allows tax gains on vehicles sold in the U.S. to be deferred, resulting in a material deferral of U.S. federal and state income taxes. While the Tax Act repealed like-kind exchange treatment for vehicle sales, the effect of the repeal will be largely offset through 2022 by the full expensing provision of certain business assets in the year placed in service, which we believe includes our vehicles. However, an extended downsizing of our fleet would significantly decrease the amount of tax deductions available under the full expensing provision. This would result in the utilization of tax attributes and increased federal and state income tax liabilities that could require us to make material cash payments. Such a downsizing or reduction in purchases would likely occur if, and to the extent, we are unable to obtain financing when our asset-backed rental vehicle financings mature, or in connection with a significant decrease in demand for vehicle rentals. In addition, the full expensing provision phases out at the end of year 2022 and we are not certain if this provision will be extended. Certain U.S. states have modified their tax statutes as a result of the Tax Act, and such state legislation negates the full expensing benefits granted under the Tax Act, which negatively impacts our tax liability in such states. Other U.S. states continue to modify their tax statutes related to full expensing. Therefore, we cannot offer assurance that the benefits from the expected tax deductions will continue. The Tax Act also made significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code applicable to corporations including a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate, a mandatory one-time repatriation tax on undistributed historic earnings of foreign subsidiaries, elimination or limitation of the deductibility of certain business expenses, and requires the inclusion in the U.S. tax base certain earnings generated by foreign subsidiaries, among other changes. While the Company believes it will not be materially impacted by these changes, the ultimate impact of the Tax Act may differ from our current estimates due to changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, legislative action, changes in accounting standards for income taxes, among other things, which could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. 28 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS We face risks related to our current and future debt obligations. Our ability to satisfy and manage our debt obligations depends on our ability to generate cash flow and on overall financial market conditions. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our outstanding debt obligations require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flows to pay interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for other purposes. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to permit us to service our debt obligations and meet our other cash needs, which may force us to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell or curtail assets or operations, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If we must sell or curtail our assets or operations, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue. Certain of our debt obligations contain restrictive covenants and provisions applicable to us and our subsidiaries that limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or acquisitions and other purposes; provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; pay dividends or distributions, redeem or repurchase capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; create or incur liens; make distributions from our subsidiaries; sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; and respond to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, as well as changes in government regulation and changes to our business. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants contained in the agreements or instruments that govern our debt obligations, if not waived, would cause a default under our senior credit facility and could result in a cross-default under several of our other debt obligations, including our U.S. and European asset-backed debt facilities. If such a default were to occur, certain provisions in our various debt agreements could require that we repay or accelerate debt payments to the lenders or holders of our debt, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance or obtain a replacement for such financing programs. We face risks related to movements or disruptions in the credit and asset-backed securities markets. We finance our vehicle fleet purchases and operations through the use of asset-backed securities in the United States, Canada, Australia and Europe and other debt financing structures available through the credit markets. If the asset-backed financing and/or credit markets were to be disrupted for any reason, we may be unable to obtain refinancing for our operations or vehicle fleet purchases at current levels, or at all, when our respective asset-backed financings or debt financings mature. Likewise, any disruption of the asset-backed financing or credit markets could also increase our borrowing costs, as we seek to engage in new financings or refinance our existing financings. In addition, we could be subject to increased collateral requirements to the extent that we request any amendment or renewal of any of our existing asset-backed or debt financings. We face risks related to potential increases in interest rates. A portion of our borrowings, primarily our vehicle-backed borrowings, bears interest at variable rates that expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, whether due to an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, our debt service obligations for our variable rate indebtedness would 29 Table of Contents increase even though the amount of borrowings remained the same, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2019 , our total outstanding debt of approximately $14.5 billion included unhedged interest rate sensitive debt of approximately $4.0 billion. During our seasonal borrowing peak in 2019 , outstanding unhedged interest rate sensitive debt totaled approximately $5.7 billion. Virtually all of our debt under vehicle programs and certain of our corporate indebtedness matures within the next five years. If we are unable to refinance maturing indebtedness at interest rates that are equivalent to or lower than the interest rates on our maturing debt, our results of operations or our financial condition may be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK We face risks related to the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. The market price of our common stock experienced substantial volatility in the past and may fluctuate widely in the future, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: weakness in general economic conditions and credit markets; changes in consumers, investors and analysts perceptions of our industry, business or related industries; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry, including our key suppliers; financial estimates that we provide to the public, any changes in such estimates, or our failure to meet such estimates; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, dispositions, strategies, management or stockholder changes, marketing affiliations, projections, fleet costs, pricing actions or other competitive actions; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; overall stock market fluctuations; success or failure of competitive service offerings or technologies; tax or regulatory developments in the United States and other countries in which we operate; litigation involving us; actions of activist stockholders and responses from our Board and senior management; and the timing and amount of any share repurchases by us. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to litigation, including class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. 30 Table of Contents Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, Delaware law, and a short-term stockholder rights plan could prevent or delay a potential acquisition of control of our Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and the laws in the State of Delaware contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the prospective acquirer and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In January 2020, a short-term stockholder rights plan was adopted, which expires in January 2021. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by effectively requiring those who seek to obtain control of the Company to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition of control. However, these provisions could apply even if an acquisition of control of the Company may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition of control that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of our Company and our stockholders. Our business could be adversely impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others. We value constructive input from investors and regularly engage in dialogue with our stockholders regarding strategy and performance. We are committed to acting in the best interests of all of our stockholders. There is no assurance that the actions we have taken or may take in seeking to maintain constructive engagement with our stockholders will be successful. We have been, and may be in the future, subject to formal or informal actions or requests, including a proxy contest, from stockholders or other interested parties. Responding to such actions can be costly and time-consuming, divert attention of management and employees, and may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow and the market price of our common stock. SRS Investment Management, LLC (SRS) has disclosed ownership of 16,189,300 shares of the Companys common stock and economic exposure to an additional 8,810,700 notional shares of the Companys common stock pursuant to cash settled equity swaps. The standstill restrictions contained in the 2018 cooperation agreement entered into between the Company and SRS have expired and the Company, through a committee of the Board, is currently in discussions with SRS regarding, among other things, SRS's ownership limits and voting rights, Board and committee composition, governance rights and standstill restrictions. There can be no assurance that a new agreement will be entered into between the Company and SRS or the terms thereof. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our principal executive offices are located at 6 Sylvan Way, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054 pursuant to a lease agreement that expires in 2023. We own a facility in Virginia Beach, Virginia, which serves as a satellite administrative facility for our car and truck rental operations. We also lease office space in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Boston, Massachusetts, pursuant to leases expiring in 2022 and 2023, respectively. These locations primarily provide operational and administrative services or contact center operations for our Americas segment. We also lease office space in Bracknell, England, Barcelona, Spain and Budapest, Hungary, pursuant to leases expiring in 2027, 2024 and 2021, respectively, for corporate offices, contact center activities and other administrative functions, respectively, for our International segment. Other office locations throughout the world are leased for administrative, regional sales and operations activities. We lease or have vehicle rental concessions for our brands at locations throughout the world. We own approximately 2% of the locations from which we operate and in some cases we sublease to franchisees or other third parties. The remaining locations from which we operate our vehicle rental businesses are leased or operated under concession agreements with governmental authorities and private entities. Those leases and concession 31 Table of Contents agreements typically require the payment of minimum rents or minimum concession fees and often also require us to pay or reimburse operating expenses, to pay additional rent, or concession fees above guaranteed minimums, based on a percentage of revenues or sales arising at the relevant premises, or to do both. See Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding lease commitments. We believe that our properties are sufficient to meet our present needs and we do not anticipate any difficulty in securing additional space, as needed, on acceptable terms. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS For information regarding legal proceedings, see Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 32 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the symbol CAR. At January 31, 2020, the number of stockholders of record was 2,404. DIVIDEND POLICY We neither declared nor paid any cash dividend on our common stock in 2019 or 2018 , and we do not currently anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock. However, we evaluate our dividend policy on a regular basis and may pay dividends in the future, subject to compliance with the covenants in our senior credit facility, the indentures governing our senior notes and our vehicle financing programs. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will also depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our businesses, covenants associated with certain debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that the Board of Directors deems relevant. SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS The following table provides information about shares of our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options and restricted stock units under all of our existing equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2019 . Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants, Rights and Restricted Stock Units (a) Weighted-Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights (Excludes Restricted Stock Units) ($) Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in First Column) (b) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 2,218,998 $ 7,758,927 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders Total 2,218,998 $ 7,758,927 __________ (a) Includes options and other awards granted under the Amended and Restated Equity and Incentive Plan, which plan was approved by stockholders. (b) Represents 5,352,041 shares available for issuance under the Amended and Restated Equity and Incentive Plan and 2,406,886 shares available for issuance pursuant to the 2009 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 33 Table of Contents ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The following is a summary of the Companys common stock repurchases by month for the quarter ended December 31, 2019 : Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased under the Plans or Programs October 2019 104,781 $ 25.67 104,781 $ 189,013,105 November 2019 189,013,105 December 2019 189,013,105 Total 104,781 $ 25.67 104,781 $ 189,013,105 The Companys Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to approximately $1.8 billion of its common stock under a plan originally approved in 2013 and subsequently expanded, most recently in August 2019. The Company s stock repurchases may occur through open market purchases or trading plans pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The amount and timing of specific repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time without prior notice. The repurchase program has no set expiration or termination date. 34 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below are a line graph and table comparing the cumulative total stockholder return of our common stock against the cumulative total returns of peer group indices, the S&P Midcap 400 Index, and the Dow Jones U.S. Transportation Average Index for the period of five fiscal years commencing December 31, 2014 and ending December 31, 2019 . The broad equity market indices used by the Company are the S&P Midcap 400 Index, which measures the performance of mid-sized companies and the Dow Jones U.S. Transportation Average Index, which measures the performance of transportation companies. The graph and table depict the result of an investment on December 31, 2014 of $100 in the Companys common stock, the S&P Midcap 400 Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Transportation Average Index, including investment of dividends. As of December 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Avis Budget Group, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 54.71 $ 55.30 $ 66.15 $ 33.89 $ 48.61 S&P Midcap 400 Index $ 100.00 $ 97.82 $ 118.11 $ 137.30 $ 122.08 $ 154.07 Dow Jones U.S. Transportation Average Index $ 100.00 $ 83.24 $ 101.83 $ 121.19 $ 106.26 $ 128.39 35 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and other financial information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of or For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 (In millions, except per share data) Results of Operations Revenues $ 9,172 $ 9,124 $ 8,848 $ 8,659 $ 8,502 Net income $ 302 $ 165 $ 361 $ 163 $ 313 Adjusted EBITDA (a) $ 788 $ 781 $ 735 $ 838 $ 903 Earnings per share Basic $ 4.01 $ 2.08 $ 4.32 $ 1.78 $ 3.02 Diluted 3.98 2.06 4.25 1.75 2.98 Financial Position Total assets $ 23,126 $ 19,149 $ 17,699 $ 17,643 $ 17,634 Assets under vehicle programs 13,815 12,779 11,879 11,578 11,716 Corporate debt 3,435 3,551 3,599 3,523 3,461 Debt under vehicle programs (b) 11,068 10,232 9,221 8,878 8,860 Stockholders equity 656 414 573 221 439 Ratio of debt under vehicle programs to assets under vehicle programs 80 % 80 % 78 % 77 % 76 % __________ (a) The following table reconciles Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA within our Selected Financial Data, which we define as income (loss) from continuing operations before non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization, any impairment charges, restructuring and other related charges, early extinguishment of debt costs, non-vehicle related interest, transaction-related costs, net charges for unprecedented personal-injury legal matters, non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity, gain on sale of equity method investment in China and income taxes. Net charges for unprecedented personal-injury legal matters and gain on sale of equity method investment in China are recorded within operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity include third-party advisory, legal and other professional service fees and are recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We have revised our definition of Adjusted EBITDA to exclude the gain on sale of equity method investment in China. We did not revise prior years Adjusted EBITDA because there were no gains similar in nature to this gain. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, for an explanation of why we believe Adjusted EBITDA is a useful measure. For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net income $ 302 $ 165 $ 361 $ 163 $ 313 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (15 ) 102 (150 ) 116 69 Income before income taxes 287 267 211 279 382 Add: Non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization 263 256 259 253 218 Interest expense related to corporate debt, net 178 188 188 203 194 Restructuring and other related charges 80 22 63 29 18 Transaction-related costs, net 10 20 23 21 68 Early extinguishment of corporate debt 12 19 3 27 23 Non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity 2 9 Impairment 2 Gain on sale of equity method investment in China (44 ) Charges for legal matter, net (14 ) 26 Adjusted EBITDA $ 788 $ 781 $ 735 $ 838 $ 903 (b) Includes related-party debt due to Avis Budget Rental Car Funding (AESOP) LLC (Avis Budget Rental Car Funding). See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 36 Table of Contents In presenting the financial data above in conformity with GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. See Critical Accounting Policies under Item 7 of this Annual Report for a detailed discussion of the accounting policies that we believe require subjective and complex judgments that could potentially affect reported results. 37 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1 Business, Item 1A Risk Factors and our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K commencing on page F-1. Our actual results of operations may differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those included in Item 1A, Risk Factors and other portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless otherwise noted, all dollar amounts in tables are in millions. OVERVIEW OUR COMPANY We operate three of the most globally recognized brands in mobility solutions, Avis, Budget and Zipcar together with several other brands, well recognized in their respective markets. Our brands offer a range of options, from car and truck rental to car sharing in North America, Europe, Australasia and certain other regions we serve, with an average rental fleet of approximately 660,000 vehicles. We also license the use of our trademarks to licensees in the areas in which we do not operate directly. We and our licensees operate our brands in approximately 180 countries throughout the world. During 2019 : Our revenues totaled $9.2 billion , and increased 1% compared to 2018 , due to higher rental volumes, partially offset by 2% negative impact from currency exchange rate movements. Our net income was $302 million and our Adjusted EBITDA was $788 million primarily driven by higher revenues, Americas lower per-unit fleet costs and higher utilization, partially offset by higher salaries, wages and other related benefits, higher vehicle registration fees and a $23 million negative impact from currency exchange rate movements. We repurchased $62 million of our common stock, reducing our shares outstanding by approximately 2.2 million shares, or 3%. We issued $400 million of 5% Senior Notes due July 2027, the net proceeds of which were used to redeem $400 million principal of our outstanding 5% Senior Notes due April 2023. We acquired various licensees primarily in North America. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to 2018 is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to 2017 can be found under Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 , filed with the SEC on February 21, 2019, which is available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and our Investor Relations website at ir.avisbudgetgroup.com. We measure performance principally using the following key metrics: (i) rental days, which represent the total number of days (or portion thereof) a vehicle was rented, (ii) revenue per day, which represents revenues divided by rental days, (iii) vehicle utilization, which represents rental days divided by available rental days, available rental days is defined as average rental fleet times the number of days in the period, and (iv) per-unit fleet costs, which represent vehicle depreciation, lease charges and gain or loss on vehicle sales, divided by average rental fleet. Our rental days, revenue per day and vehicle utilization metrics are all calculated based on the actual rental of the vehicle during a 24-hour period. We believe that this methodology provides us with the most relevant metrics in order to manage the business. Our calculation may not be comparable to the calculation of similarly-titled metrics by other companies. We present currency exchange rate effects to provide a method of assessing how our business performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Currency exchange rate effects are calculated by translating the current-year results at the prior-period average exchange rate plus any related gains and losses on currency hedges. 38 Table of Contents We assess performance and allocate resources based upon the separate financial information of our operating segments. In identifying our reportable segments, we also consider the nature of services provided by our operating segments, the geographical areas in which our segments operate and other relevant factors. Management evaluates the operating results of each of our reportable segments based upon revenue and Adjusted EBITDA, which we define as income from continuing operations before non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization, any impairment charges, restructuring and other related charges, early extinguishment of debt costs, non-vehicle related interest, transaction-related costs, net charges for unprecedented personal-injury legal matters, non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity, gain on sale of equity method investment in China and income taxes. Net charges for unprecedented personal-injury legal matters and gain on sale of equity method investment in China are recorded within operating expenses in our consolidated results of operations. Non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity include third party advisory, legal and other professional service fees and are recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated results of operations. We have revised our definition of Adjusted EBITDA to exclude the gain on sale of equity method investment in China. We did not revise prior years Adjusted EBITDA amounts because there were no gains similar in nature to this gain. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful as a supplemental measure in evaluating the performance of our operating businesses and in comparing our results from period to period. We also believe that Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors because it allows them to assess our results of operations and financial condition on the same basis that management uses internally. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or other income statement data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies. Year Ended December 31, 2019 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2018 Our consolidated results of operations comprised the following: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change Revenues $ 9,172 $ 9,124 $ 48 1 % Expenses Operating 4,698 4,639 59 1 % Vehicle depreciation and lease charges, net 2,063 2,179 (116 ) (5 %) Selling, general and administrative 1,237 1,220 17 1 % Vehicle interest, net 344 314 30 10 % Non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization 263 256 7 3 % Interest expense related to corporate debt, net: Interest expense 178 188 (10 ) (5 %) Early extinguishment of debt 12 19 (7 ) (37 %) Restructuring and other related charges 80 22 58 n/m Transaction-related costs, net 10 20 (10 ) (50 %) Total expenses 8,885 8,857 28 0 % Income before income taxes 287 267 20 7 % Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (15 ) 102 (117 ) n/m Net income $ 302 $ 165 $ 137 83 % __________ n/m Not meaningful. Revenues increased during 2019 compared to 2018 , primarily due to a 3% increase in volume, partially offset by a $165 million negative impact from currency exchange rate movements. Total expenses were primarily unchanged during the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to 2018. Operating expenses increased to 51.2% of revenue during 2019 compared to 50.8% in 2018 , primarily due to higher salaries, wages, and related benefits and higher vehicle registration fees, partially offset by a gain on the sale of an equity method investment in China. Vehicle depreciation and lease charges decreased to 22.5% of 39 Table of Contents revenue during 2019 compared to 23.9% in 2018 , primarily due to Americas lower per-unit fleet costs and higher utilization. Selling, general and administrative costs increased to 13.5% of revenue during 2019 compared to 13.4% in 2018 . Vehicle interest costs increased to 3.8% of revenue during 2019 compared to 3.4% in 2018 primarily due to higher interest rates. Our effective tax rates were a benefit of 5% and a provision of 38% for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which in 2019 included a $113 million one-time benefit arising from the release of valuation allowances on certain of our foreign deferred tax assets primarily driven by tax planning strategies. As a result of these items, our net income increased by $137 million compared to 2018. For 2019 , the Company reported earnings of $3.98 per diluted share, which includes a one-time benefit arising from the release of valuation allowances on certain of our foreign deferred tax assets primarily driven by tax planning strategies of $1.50 per share and a benefit from the impact of our 2019 share repurchases of $0.04 per share. For 2018 , the Company reported earnings of $2.06 per diluted share, which includes a benefit from the impact of our 2018 share repurchases of $0.05 per share. Following is a more detailed discussion of the results of each of our reportable segments: 2019 2018 Revenues Adjusted EBITDA Revenues Adjusted EBITDA Americas $ 6,352 $ 652 $ 6,186 $ 558 International 2,820 203 2,938 287 Corporate and Other (a) (67 ) (64 ) Total Company $ 9,172 $ 788 $ 9,124 $ 781 Reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA 2019 2018 Net income $ 302 $ 165 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (15 ) 102 Income before income taxes 287 267 Add: Non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization 263 256 Interest expense related to corporate debt, net: Interest expense 178 188 Early extinguishment of debt 12 19 Restructuring and other related charges (b) 80 22 Transaction-related costs, net (c) 10 20 Non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity (d) 2 9 Gain on sale of equity method investment in China (e) (44 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 788 $ 781 __________ (a) Includes unallocated corporate overhead which is not attributable to a particular segment. (b) Other related charges include costs associated with the separation of certain officers of the Company. (c) Primarily comprised of acquisition- and integration-related expenses. (d) Reported within selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated results of operations. (e) Reported within operating expenses in our consolidated results of operations. Americas 2019 2018 % Change Revenues $ 6,352 $ 6,186 3 % Adjusted EBITDA 652 558 17 % Revenues increased 3% during 2019 , compared to 2018 , primarily due to a 3% increase in volume, partially offset by an $11 million negative effect from currency exchange rate movements. Operating expenses increased to 50.2% of revenue during 2019 compared to 49.7% in 2018 , primarily due to higher salaries, wages and related benefits and higher vehicle registration fees. Vehicle depreciation and lease charges decreased to 23.0% of revenue during 2019 compared to 25.4% in 2018 , primarily due to an 8% 40 Table of Contents decrease in per-unit fleet costs excluding exchange rate effects and higher utilization. Selling, general and administrative costs increased to 12.1% of revenue during 2019 compared to 11.9% in 2018 . Vehicle interest costs increased to 4.5% of revenue during 2019 compared to 4.1% in 2018 , primarily due to higher interest rates. Adjusted EBITDA increased 17% during 2019 , compared to 2018 , due to higher revenues, lower per-unit fleet costs, partially offset by higher salaries, wages, and related benefits and higher vehicle registration fees. International 2019 2018 % Change Revenues $ 2,820 $ 2,938 (4 %) Adjusted EBITDA 203 287 (29 %) Revenues decreased 4% during 2019 , compared to 2018 , primarily due to a $154 million negative impact from currency exchange rate movements and a 1% decrease in revenue per day excluding exchange rate effects, partially offset by a 2% increase in volume. Operating expenses increased to 53.5% of revenue during 2019 compared to 52.8% in 2018 , primarily due to lower revenue per day excluding exchange rate effects and higher public liability and property damage expense, partially offset by a gain on the sale of an equity method investment in China. Vehicle depreciation and lease charges increased to 21.3% of revenue during 2019 compared to 20.8% in 2018 , primarily due to lower revenue per day excluding exchange rate effects and a 2% increase in per-unit fleet costs excluding exchange rate effects, partially offset by higher utilization. Selling, general and administrative costs decreased to 14.3% of revenue during 2019 compared to 14.5% in 2018 . Vehicle interest costs, at 2.1% of revenue, remained unchanged during 2019 compared to 2018 . Adjusted EBITDA decreased 29% during 2019 , compared to 2018 , due to lower revenues, a $21 million negative impact from currency exchange rate movements, higher public liability and property damage expense and higher per-unit fleet costs excluding exchange rate effects, partially offset by higher utilization. Corporate and Other 2019 2018 % Change Revenues $ $ n/m Adjusted EBITDA (67 ) (64 ) n/m __________ n/m Not meaningful. Adjusted EBITDA decreased $ 3 million during 2019 , compared to 2018 , primarily due to higher selling, general and administrative expenses which are not attributable to a particular segment. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We present separately the financial data of our vehicle programs. These programs are distinct from our other activities as the assets under vehicle programs are generally funded through the issuance of debt that is collateralized by such assets. The income generated by these assets is used, in part, to repay the principal and interest associated with the debt. Cash inflows and outflows relating to the generation or acquisition of such assets and the principal debt repayment or financing of such assets are classified as activities of our vehicle programs. We believe it is appropriate to segregate the financial data of our vehicle programs because, ultimately, the source of repayment of such debt is the realization of such assets. 41 Table of Contents FINANCIAL CONDITION As of December 31, 2019 2018 Change Total assets exclusive of assets under vehicle programs $ 9,311 $ 6,370 $ 2,941 Total liabilities exclusive of liabilities under vehicle programs 8,538 6,011 2,527 Assets under vehicle programs 13,815 12,779 1,036 Liabilities under vehicle programs 13,932 12,724 1,208 Stockholders equity 656 414 242 Total assets exclusive of assets under vehicle programs and total liabilities exclusive of liabilities under vehicle programs increased compared to 2018 primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2016-02 (see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). Assets and liabilities under vehicle programs increased compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in the size of our vehicle rental fleet and operating leases recognized upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 (see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). The increase in stockholders equity compared to 2018 is primarily due to our comprehensive income, partially offset by our repurchases of common stock. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand and our ability to generate cash through operations and financing activities, as well as available funding arrangements and committed credit facilities, each of which is discussed below. During 2019 our Avis Budget Rental Car Funding subsidiary issued approximately $600 million , $650 million , and $650 million in asset-backed notes with an expected final payment date of March 2022, September 2024, and March 2025, and a weighted average interest rate of 3.56% , 3.44% , and 2.45% , respectively. The proceeds from these borrowings were used to fund the repayment of maturing vehicle-backed debt and the acquisition of rental cars in the United States. In July 2019, we issued $400 million of our 5% Senior Notes due July 2027 to redeem $400 million of our outstanding 5 % Senior Notes due April 2023. In October 2019, we redeemed $75 million of our 5 % Senior Notes due April 2023. We repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares of our outstanding common stock for approximately $62 million during 2019. Cash Flows Year Ended December 31, 2019 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2018 The following table summarizes our cash flows: Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Change Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 2,586 $ 2,609 $ (23 ) Investing activities (2,752 ) (3,426 ) 674 Financing activities 318 667 (349 ) Effect of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents, program and restricted cash 13 (16 ) 29 Net change in cash and cash equivalents, program and restricted cash 165 (166 ) 331 Cash and cash equivalents, program and restricted cash, beginning of period 735 901 (166 ) Cash and cash equivalents, program and restricted cash, end of period $ 900 $ 735 $ 165 42 Table of Contents Cash provided by operating activities during 2019 was substantially unchanged compared with 2018 . The decrease in cash used in investing activities during 2019 compared with 2018 is primarily due to an increase in proceeds received on the disposition of vehicles, partially offset by an increase in investment in vehicles. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities during 2019 compared with 2018 is primarily due to a decrease in net borrowings under vehicle programs. We anticipate that our non-vehicle property and equipment additions will be approximately $230 million in 2020 . Debt and Financing Arrangements At December 31, 2019 , we had approximately $14.5 billion of indebtedness (including corporate indebtedness of approximately $3.4 billion and debt under vehicle programs of approximately $11.1 billion ). For detailed information regarding our debt and borrowing arrangements, see Notes 13 and 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. LIQUIDITY RISK Our primary liquidity needs include the procurement of rental vehicles to be used in our operations, servicing of corporate and vehicle-related debt and the payment of operating expenses. The present intention of management is to reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries indefinitely into our foreign operations. Our primary sources of funding are operating revenue, cash received upon the sale of vehicles, borrowings under our vehicle-backed borrowing arrangements and our senior revolving credit facility, and other financing activities. As of December 31, 2019 , we have cash and cash equivalents of $0.7 billion , available borrowing capacity under our committed credit facilities of $0.7 billion , and available capacity under our vehicle programs of approximately $2.9 billion . Our liquidity position could be negatively affected by financial market disruptions or a downturn in the U.S. and worldwide economies, which may result in unfavorable conditions in the mobility industry, in the asset-backed financing market and in the credit markets, generally. We believe these factors have in the past affected and could in the future affect the debt ratings assigned to us by credit rating agencies and the cost of our borrowings. Additionally, a downturn in the worldwide economy or a disruption in the credit markets could impact our liquidity due to (i) decreased demand and pricing for vehicles in the used vehicle market, (ii) increased costs associated with, and/or reduced capacity or increased collateral needs under, our financings, (iii) the adverse impact of vehicle manufacturers being unable or unwilling to honor their obligations to repurchase or guarantee the depreciation on the related program vehicles and (iv) disruption in our ability to obtain financing due to negative credit events specific to us or affecting the overall debt market (see Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion). Our liquidity position could also be negatively impacted if we are unable to remain in compliance with the financial and other covenants associated with our senior revolving credit facility and other borrowings, including a maximum leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2019 , we were in compliance with the financial covenants governing our indebtedness. 43 Table of Contents CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our principal future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 : 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Thereafter Total Corporate debt $ 19 $ 17 $ 16 $ 216 $ 701 $ 2,505 $ 3,474 Debt under vehicle programs 1,753 3,225 3,032 1,097 1,471 539 11,117 Debt interest 466 413 313 243 168 94 1,697 Operating leases 708 521 417 353 230 1,174 3,403 Commitments to purchase vehicles (a) 7,749 2 7,751 Defined benefit pension plan contributions (b) 11 11 Other purchase commitments (c) 77 29 19 9 2 136 Total (d) $ 10,783 $ 4,207 $ 3,797 $ 1,918 $ 2,572 $ 4,312 $ 27,589 __________ (a) Represents commitments to purchase vehicles, the majority of which are from Ford, Fiat Chrysler and General Motors. These commitments are generally subject to the vehicle manufacturers satisfying their obligations under the repurchase and guaranteed depreciation agreements. The purchase of such vehicles is generally financed through borrowings under vehicle programs in addition to cash received upon the sale of vehicles, some of which were purchased under repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs (see Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). (b) Represents the expected contributions to our defined benefit pension plans in 2019. The amount of future contributions to our defined benefit pension plans will depend on the rates of return generated from plan assets and other factors (see Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements) and are not included above. (c) Primarily represents commitments under service contracts for information technology, telecommunications and marketing agreements with travel service companies. (d) Excludes income tax uncertainties of $57 million , $13 million of which is subject to indemnification by Realogy and Wyndham. We are unable to estimate the period in which these income tax uncertainties are expected to be settled. For more information regarding guarantees and indemnifications, see Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Critical Accounting Policies In presenting our financial statements in conformity with GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported therein. Several of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events and/or events that are outside of our control. If there is a significant unfavorable change to current conditions, it could result in a material adverse impact to our consolidated results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We believe that the estimates and assumptions we used when preparing our financial statements were the most appropriate at that time. Presented below are those accounting policies that we believe require subjective and complex judgments that could potentially affect reported results. However, our businesses operate in environments where we are paid a fee for a service performed, and therefore the results of the majority of our recurring operations are recorded in our financial statements using accounting policies that are not particularly subjective, nor complex. Goodwill and Other Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets. We have reviewed the carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. In performing this review, we are required to make an assessment of fair value for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. When determining fair value, we utilize various assumptions, including the fair market trading price of our common stock and managements projections of future cash flows. A change in these underlying assumptions will cause a change in the results of the tests and, as such, could cause the fair value to be less than the respective carrying amount. In such event, we would then be required to record a charge, which would impact earnings. We review the carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are allocated among our reporting units. During 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , there was no impairment of goodwill and no material impairment of other intangible assets, see 44 Table of Contents Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. For our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) reporting unit, the percentage by which the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value as of October 1, 2019 was 25% and the amount of goodwill allocated to our reporting unit was $460 million. In the future, failure to achieve our business plans, a significant deterioration of the macroeconomic conditions of the countries in which we operate, or significant changes in the assumptions and estimates that are used in our impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (such as the discount rate) could result in significantly different estimates of fair value that could trigger an impairment of the goodwill of our reporting units or intangible assets. Vehicles. We present vehicles at cost, net of accumulated depreciation, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We record the initial cost of the vehicle, net of incentives and allowances from manufacturers. We acquire our rental vehicles either through repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs with certain automobile manufacturers or outside of such programs. For rental vehicles purchased under such programs, we depreciate the vehicles such that the net book value on the date of sale or return to the manufacturers is intended to equal the contractual guaranteed residual values. For risk vehicles acquired outside of manufacturer repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs, we depreciate based on the vehicles estimated residual market values at their expected dates of disposition. The estimation of residual values requires the Company to make assumptions regarding the age and mileage of the vehicle at the time of disposal, as well as expected used vehicle market conditions. The Company regularly evaluates estimated residual values and adjusts depreciation rates as appropriate. Differences between actual residual values and those estimated result in a gain or loss on disposal and are recorded as part of vehicle depreciation and lease charges, net, at the time of sale. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes. We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in the financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Tax Act enacted in the fourth quarter of 2017 included a change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. For more information regarding the accounting for the effects of the Tax Act, see Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent results of operations. In the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize deferred income tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, we would make an adjustment to the valuation allowance which would reduce the provision for income taxes. Currently we do not record valuation allowances on the majority of our tax loss carryforwards as there are adequate deferred tax liabilities that could be realized within the carryforward period. See Notes 2 and 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding income taxes. Public Liability, Property Damage and Other Insurance Liabilities. Insurance liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets include supplemental liability insurance, personal effects protection insurance, public liability, property damage and personal accident insurance claims for which we are self-insured. We estimate the required liability of such claims on an undiscounted basis utilizing an actuarial method that is based upon various assumptions which include, but are not limited to, our historical loss experience and projected loss development factors. The required liability is also subject to adjustment in the future based upon changes in claims experience, including changes in the number of incidents for which we are ultimately liable and changes in the cost per incident. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements For a description of our adoption of new accounting pronouncements and the impact thereof on our business, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 45 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the impact thereof on our business, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.