Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7, in Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and in other portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may contain forward-looking statements and involve uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such statements. Although we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, any or all of our forward-looking statements may prove to be inaccurate and we can make no guarantees about our future performance. Should unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and/or those anticipated, estimated or projected. We undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events. For any forward-looking statements contained in any document, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, the Company, Avis Budget, we, our or us means Avis Budget Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Avis, Budget, Budget Truck, Zipcar, Payless, Apex, Maggiore, Morini Rent, Turiscar and FranceCars refer to our Avis Rent A Car System, LLC, Budget Rent A Car System, Inc., Budget Truck Rental, LLC, Zipcar, Inc., Payless Car Rental, Inc., Apex Car Rentals, Maggiore Rent S.p.A., Morini S.p.A., Turiscar Group and AAA France Cars SAS operations, respectively, and, unless the context otherwise requires, do not include the operations of our licensees, as further discussed below. OVERVIEW We are a leading global provider of mobility solutions through our three most recognized brands, Avis, Budget and Zipcar, together with several other brands, well recognized in their respective markets. We and our licensees operate the Avis and Budget brands in approximately 180 countries throughout the world. We generally maintain a leading share of airport car rental revenue in North America, Europe and Australasia, and we operate one of the leading truck rental businesses in the United States. Our differentiated brands help us meet a wide range of customer mobility needs throughout the world. Avis is a leading vehicle rental brand positioned to serve the premium commercial and leisure segments of the travel industry. Budget is a leading vehicle rental brand focused primarily on more value-conscious segments of the industry. Our Zipcar brand is one of the worlds leading car sharing networks offering an alternative to traditional vehicle rental and ownership. On average, our rental fleet totaled nearly 650,000 vehicles in 2018 and we completed more than 40 million vehicle rental transactions worldwide. We generate approximately 65% of our revenue from on-airport locations and approximately 35% of our revenue from off-airport locations. We license the use of the Avis, Budget, Zipcar and Payless trademarks to licensees in areas in which we do not operate directly. Our brands have an extended global reach with more than 11,000 car and truck rental locations throughout the world, including approximately 4,600 car rental locations operated by our licensees. We believe that Avis, Budget and Zipcar enjoy complementary demand patterns with mid-week commercial demand balanced by weekend leisure demand. We operate Budget Truck, one of the leading truck rental businesses in the United States, through a network of dealer-operated and Company-operated locations throughout the continental United States. We also own Payless, a car rental brand that operates in the deep-value segment of the industry in the United States and certain other international regions; Apex, which is a leading deep-value car rental brand in New Zealand and Australia; Maggiore and Morini Rent, leading vehicle rental brands in Italy; Turiscar, a well-established car rental brand in Portugal; and FranceCars, which operates one of the largest light commercial vehicle fleets in France. We also have investments in certain of our Avis and Budget licensees outside of the United States. We categorize our operations into two reportable business segments: Americas , which provides and licenses the Companys brands to third parties for vehicle rentals and ancillary products and services in North America, South America, Central America and the Caribbean, and operates the Companys car sharing business in certain of these markets; and International , which provides and licenses the Companys brands to third parties for vehicle rentals and ancillary products and services in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Australasia, and operates the Companys car sharing business in certain of these markets. Additional discussion of our reportable segments is included in the Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3 Table of Contents COMPANY HISTORY Avis was founded in 1946 and is believed to be the first company to rent cars from airport locations. Since its founding, Avis has expanded its business throughout the United States and internationally, becoming one of the largest and most recognized car rental brands in the world. In 1996, Avis was acquired by HFS Incorporated and in 1997 merged with our predecessor company, with the combined entity being renamed Cendant Corporation. In 2006, Cendant spun off several significant subsidiaries and changed its name to Avis Budget Group, Inc. The Company is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Parsippany, New Jersey. Budget was founded in 1958 to appeal to the value-conscious car rental customer. In 2002, we acquired the Budget brand and certain Budget vehicle rental operations, including the Budget truck rental business. In 2011, we acquired Avis Europe, an independently-owned Company licensee, to expand our international operations and globally reunite the Avis and Budget brands. In 2012 and 2013, we acquired our Apex and Payless brands, respectively, which allowed us to expand our presence in the deep-value segment of the car rental industry. In 2013, we acquired Zipcar, one of the worlds leading car sharing networks, to better serve a greater variety of our customers mobility needs. In 2015, we acquired Maggiore, a leading provider of vehicle rental services in Italy. In 2016, we acquired FranceCars, a privately held vehicle rental company based in France, which significantly expanded our presence in the French market. In 2018, we acquired Morini, which focuses on rentals of cars, vans and refrigerated trucks in Northern Italy, and Turiscar, a well-established vehicle rental company in Portugal, and also invested in our licensee in Greece. These acquisitions have allowed us to continue to expand our global footprint of Company-operated locations and brand presence. OUR STRATEGY Our objective is to drive sustainable, profitable growth for our Company by delivering strategic initiatives aimed at winning and retaining customers through differentiated brands and products, increasing our margins via revenue growth and operational efficiency and enhancing our leadership in the evolving mobility industry. Supporting and Strengthening Our Brands In executing our strategy, we will continue to position our distinct and well-recognized global brands to focus on different segments of customer demand, complemented by our other brands in their respective regional markets. While our brands address different use-cases and target customers, we achieve efficiencies by sharing the same operational and administrative infrastructure while providing differentiated value propositions tailored to each of our brands. We currently operate our brands, either directly or through independent operators and licensees around the world and we plan to continue to strengthen and further expand our global footprint through organic growth and, potentially, through acquisitions, joint ventures, licensing agreements or other relationships: In countries where we have Company-operated locations, we will continue to identify opportunities to add new rental locations, to grant licenses to independent third parties for areas where we do not currently operate and do not wish to operate directly, to strengthen the presence of our brands and in certain cases to re-acquire previously granted license rights. In countries operated by licensees or partners, we will seek to ensure that those businesses are well positioned to realize the growth potential of our brands in those countries and are growing their presence in those markets, and in certain cases we will continue to consider the re-acquisition of previously granted license rights. In countries where we have either Company-operated or licensee-operated locations, we will also continue to identify opportunities to leverage our Zipcar brand and its car sharing model, which allows us to fulfill the expanding urban mobility needs of customers. Since our Avis brand represents approximately 58% of our revenue and is recognized as a global leader in vehicle rental, we are particularly focused on maintaining and building its reputation as a reliably high-quality service provider. Our Avis Preferred loyalty program, which offers our customers the ability to bypass the rental 4 Table of Contents counter and also earn reward points, coupled with our continued investment in technology, including our Avis mobile application and websites, and our growing fleet of connected cars, are all key parts of our efforts to enhance the Avis experience for our customers. We aim to provide a range of vehicles, products and services at competitive prices, to leverage various marketing channels and to maintain marketing affiliations and corporate account contracts that complement each brands positioning. We also continue to invest in our brands through a variety of efforts, including both on-line and off-line marketing. We continue to see particular growth opportunities for Budget and our other local brands in Europe, as the share of airport car rentals for Budget is significantly smaller in Europe than in certain other parts of the world. To further support and strengthen our brands, we are committed to serving our customers and enhancing their rental experience through new organic offerings that optimize our brands, our systems and our employees. We frequently solicit feedback from and survey our customers to better understand their needs and we have implemented actions to enhance our services, including the following: We created our Avis mobile application to provide a higher quality end-to-end user experience, building upon direct feedback from customers to re-design the rental experience to meet their needs. Our Avis mobile application allows customers to reserve, update and cancel reservations, choose their car, exchange or upgrade their vehicle, add ancillary products, extend rentals, return the vehicle with one click, view and share current and past rental receipts to expedite expense processing, review rental agreement details and the vehicles insurance card, and, in the case of connected vehicles, lock and unlock the vehicle, confirm their fuel level at the beginning and end of their rental as well as miles driven, using their mobile device; We continue to upgrade our technology and the ways it can further serve our customers, to make the vehicle reservation, pick-up and return processes more convenient and user-friendly, with a particular emphasis on enabling and simplifying our customers online transactions. We have partnered with other technology and product companies to continuously improve the user experience through various mobile and technology capabilities. These include working with Amazon to allow for voice-controlled access to our services through Amazon Alexa enabled devices; and We piloted and subsequently launched Curbside Delivery services in select U.S. airport markets, in which customers can bring their car to the Avis and Budget return lot, where an Avis or Budget employee will drive them to their appointed terminal or gate and complete the vehicle return process transaction at the curb. We will continue to invest in these and other innovative efforts, with a particular emphasis on technologies, services and products that will allow us to not only serve customers more effectively and efficiently, but offer new brand-differentiating options. Margins and Operational Efficiency Our strategy is focused on identifying and implementing actions to increase our margins over the next several years. We see significant potential in opportunities that optimize our pricing and customer mix; increase sales of ancillary products and services through new product and service development; optimize our procurement processes; refine the deployment and disposition of vehicles (e.g. increasing the use of non-auction channels for selling our vehicles); drive operational efficiency in our business; and apply connected car/in-vehicle systems and other innovative mobility technologies in our operations. We continue to pursue opportunities intended to drive our margins and increase our revenues and profitability, including: Offering our customers useful ancillary products and services, promoting car class upgrades, adjusting our mix of vehicles to match customer demand; repositioning our sales strategy to focus on the most profitable segments, increasing the number of rentals that customers book directly through our websites and mobile applications and increasing the proportion of Pay Now transactions by which customers prepay for rentals. Investing in yield management and pricing analytics tools, such as our Revenue Management System, to increase the profits we earn per rental day. We have implemented, and plan to continue deploying, new technology systems that strengthen our yield management decisions and enable us to tailor our product, 5 Table of Contents service and price offerings to meet our customers needs and react quickly to shifting market conditions. We will continue to adjust our pricing to improve profitability and manage our fleet to match changes in demand. Managing and improving our fleet decisions to better optimize and drive the purchase, deployment, and disposition of our fleet to lower costs and meet customer demand, grow our direct-to-dealer and consumer sales performance, reduce maintenance and repair expenses, better optimize our salvage costs, reduce the risk of damage to our vehicles, and improve fleet utilization benefits and savings by combining our vehicle rental and car sharing fleets when appropriate which we believe will create significant financial benefits. Seeking opportunities where our investments will generate strong margin returns, including expanding rental locations, acquiring and integrating existing licensees in key markets, participating in joint ventures and acquiring leading local brands. Increasing our Zipcar membership base within its existing markets, as well as expanding the brand into new markets. We also continued to focus our efforts on rigorously controlling our costs, aggressively reducing expenses and increasing efficiencies throughout our organization by: Implementing process improvements throughout our business to increase efficiencies, reduce operating costs and create sustainable cost savings. Achieving reductions in underlying direct operating and selling, general and administrative expenses, including reductions in staff where and when appropriate. Assessing location, segment and transaction profitability to address less-profitable aspects of our business and focus on the more-profitable accounts that will help drive increased margins. Deploying changes to our sales, marketing and affinity programs to improve profitability. Integrating our acquired businesses, to realize cost efficiencies from combined maintenance, systems, technology and administrative infrastructure. Implementing innovative technological solutions like self-service voice reservation technology, mobile communications with customers and fleet optimization technologies to reduce costs. We believe such operational improvements will continue to assist and in some cases, drive our financial performance. Our Evolving Mobility Platform We believe our Company is well-positioned as a global leader in the evolving mobility marketplace. Mobility is more than providing a clean reliable car of choice for a customer to use to get from point A to point B; it also means providing our customers the choice to rent a vehicle or share a vehicle, and to do so by the year, month, week, day, hour or fraction of an hour. Mobility means our customers, using their smartphones or tablets, can customize their experiences with our products, services, and employees, bypass the counter or change their minds about the make or model of a vehicle and review their options on their mobile device right up to the moment they exit the parking lot. Mobility also means providing customers with choices even on the shortest trips, including how they want to be transported to or from their rental vehicles at the airport or by providing them with real time data about the wait time for the next shuttle. When our customers return their rental vehicles to our fleet, whether at an airport or off-airport facility or a designated customer parking spot, our preferred customers can receive their complete charges for their transaction including gas, ancillary products use, and any other applicable charges, via email or text, within minutes of their proper return of the vehicle. In the future we intend to deliver more data content to our customers in their vehicles and to their devices that will provide them with customized access to useful information they want to know about, including eating, shopping, lodging, emergency assistance and tips on just enjoying the location they are visiting. With our connected cars, mobility means being able to collect data about the car that will improve customer service and vehicle safety. It also means that we will be able to provide a new suite of services for clients who are looking to utilize our operational experience and our technology to maintain and manage their own fleets, and provide supply chain services with quality and precision at levels that exceed their ability to do so themselves. 6 Table of Contents Our current and growing list of business partnerships with other mobility service providers in adjacent business models allows us to offer more options to our business and leisure customers to satisfy a wide variety of mobility needs. For our shareholders, mobility means seizing opportunities that will increase our overall value through strategies that expand the use of our technologies, fleet and employees, open new markets, increase revenue and margins across all our brands; and maintain our strength as an innovator in the expanding mobility market. Since 2017, we have undertaken several initiatives and entered into partnerships in support of our strategy, including: Exceeding our goal of having more than 100,000 connected vehicles in our U.S. Avis fleet in 2018, delivering both customer benefits and operational efficiencies, including entering into agreements with Ford and Toyota to connect all their vehicles in our U.S. Avis fleet. We also expect to expand connected vehicles in Europe during 2019, bringing us closer to our goal of having a 100% global connected fleet; Our launch of our first-ever Mobility Lab in the Kansas City, Missouri area, utilizing fully connected vehicles that allows us to leverage our capabilities to deliver operational efficiencies through on-demand inventory counts, mileage management and automated maintenance notifications that enhance and optimize the Companys fleet management capabilities; Our integration with Amazon Alexa, which allows travelers to book and manage their car rental reservations through the voice platform on Amazon Echo; Our partnership with Waymo, an Alphabet Inc. company, through which we are offering fleet support and maintenance services for their growing fleet of autonomous vehicles in Phoenix, Arizona. This provides a unique opportunity to grow our understanding of the support and operational maintenance requirements for self-driving vehicles at the fleet level, including staffing and facility requirements; Our focus on emerging technologies through our collaboration with various international and local technology incubators; Our partnership with Lyft, in which we are enabling Lyft drivers across North America the ability to use Avis vehicles on a monthly and weekly basis as an alternative to using their own personal vehicle; Our partnership with Brightline in Florida, the only privately owned and operated passenger rail service in the United States, in which we offer Brightline passengers and those living or working near Brightlines stations convenient access to Avis and Zipcar vehicles that can be reserved via integration with the Brightline app; and Our use of Amazon Web Services (AWS) Connected Vehicle Solution to build our data analytics platform, providing highly secure and scalable cloud services and allows us to leverage AWS capabilities for artificial intelligence, machine learning, and data management to develop a wide variety of innovative connected vehicle applications and mobility services. We are committed to finding new and innovative ways of thinking and operating, and to leverage our technology, employees, global presence and capabilities to be leaders among the contributors that are now shaping the evolving mobility market. OUR BRANDS AND OPERATIONS OUR BRANDS Our Avis, Budget and Zipcar brands are three of the most recognized brands in our industry. We believe that we enjoy significant benefits from operating our brands with services and products targeted to different customers and sharing the same maintenance facilities, fleet management systems, technology and administrative infrastructure. In addition, we are able to recognize significant benefits and savings by combining our car rental and car sharing maintenance activities and fleets at times to increase our fleet utilization efficiency and to meet demand peaks. We believe that Avis, Budget and Zipcar all enjoy complementary demand patterns with mid-week commercial demand balanced by weekend leisure demand. We also operate the Apex and Payless brands, which operate in the deep-value segment of the car rental industry, augmenting our Avis, Budget and Zipcar brands. In addition, our Maggiore and Morini brands in Italy, FranceCars brand in France and Turiscar brand in Portugal further extend the range of vehicle use occasions we are able to serve. 7 Table of Contents The following graphs present the approximate composition of our revenue by brand, customer and market in 2018 . * Includes Budget Truck. ** Includes Zipcar and other operating brands. *** Includes Budget Truck and Zipcar. Avis The Avis brand provides high-quality vehicle rental and other mobility solutions at price points generally above non-branded and value-branded vehicle rental companies to serve the premium commercial and leisure segments of the travel industry. We operate or license the Avis vehicle rental system (the Avis System), one of the largest global vehicle rental systems, at approximately 5,500 locations worldwide, including in virtually all of the largest commercial airports and cities in the world. The Avis System is comprised of an approximately equal number of company-owned and licensee vehicle rental locations worldwide, in both the on-airport and off-airport, or local, rental markets. The table below presents the approximate number of locations that comprise the Avis System as of December 31, 2018. Avis System Locations * Americas International Total Company-operated locations 1,550 1,300 2,850 Licensee locations 700 1,950 2,650 Total Avis System Locations 2,250 3,250 5,500 * Certain locations support multiple brands. In 2018 , our company-operated Avis locations generated total world-wide revenue of approximately $5.3 billion , of which approximately $ 2.6 billion was derived from commercial customers and approximately $3.6 billion was derived from customers renting at airports. The following graphs present the approximate composition of our Avis revenue by segment, customer and market in 2018. We also license the Avis System to independent commercial owners who operate approximately half of our locations worldwide and generally pay royalty fees to us based on a percentage of applicable revenue. In 2018 , approximately 33% of the global Avis System revenue was generated by our licensees. The graphs below present the approximate composition of the Avis System revenue in 2018 . 8 Table of Contents We offer Avis customers a variety of premium services, including: the Avis mobile application, which allows customers a new and innovative way to control many elements of their rental experience via their mobile devices without the need to visit the rental counter. The Avis mobile application also allows customers to track Avis shuttle buses to rental locations, find their vehicle, and locate nearby gas stations and parking facilities; Avis Preferred , a frequent renter rewards program that offers counter-bypass at major airport locations and reward points for every dollar spent on vehicle rentals and related products; the Avis Select Series, a selection of luxury vehicles including Mercedes, Jaguars, Corvettes, and others; availability of premium, sport and performance vehicles as well as eco-friendly vehicles, including gasoline/electric hybrids; access to portable navigation units, tablets and in-dash satellite radio service; Avis rental services such as roadside assistance, fuel service options, e-receipts, electronic toll collection services that allow customers to pay highway tolls without waiting in toll booth lines, and amenities such as Avis Access , a full range of special products and services for drivers and passengers with disabilities; Curbside Delivery, a service that provides customers at select airport locations in the United States with the added convenience of being dropped off at the airport terminal in the same car that they rented; for our corporate customers, Avis Budget Group Business Intelligence, a proprietary customer reporting solution that provides a centralized reporting tool and customer reporting portal for all corporate clients around the globe. This enables them to easily view and analyze their rental activity, permitting them to better manage their travel budgets and monitor employee compliance with applicable travel policies; and applications that serve our customers through various mobile and technology platforms, including Apple Watch devices and voice-controlled access through Amazon Alexa enabled devices. Budget The Budget brand is a leading supplier of vehicle rental and other mobility solutions focused primarily on more value-conscious customers. We operate or license the Budget vehicle rental system (the Budget System), which is comprised of vehicle rental locations at most of the largest airports and cities in the world. The table below presents the approximate number of locations that comprise the Budget System as of December 31, 2018. 9 Table of Contents Budget System Locations * Americas International Total Company-operated locations 1,375 875 2,250 Licensee locations 650 1,100 1,750 Total Budget System Locations 2,025 1,975 4,000 * Certain locations support multiple brands. In 2018 , our company-operated Budget vehicle rental operations generated total revenue of approximately $2.7 billion , of which approximately $2.0 billion was derived from leisure customers and $2.1 billion was derived from customers renting at airports. The following graphs present the approximate composition of our Budget revenue by segment, customer and market in 2018. We also license the Budget System to independent commercial owners who operate approximately half of our locations worldwide and generally pay royalty fees to us based on a percentage of applicable revenue. In 2018 , approximately 29% of the global Budget System revenue was generated by our licensees. The graphs below present the approximate composition of the Budget System revenue in 2018 . Budget offers its customers several products and services similar to Avis, such as refueling options, roadside assistance, electronic toll collection, curbside dropoff and other supplemental rental products, emailed receipts and special rental rates for frequent renters. In addition, Budgets mobile application allows customers to reserve, modify and cancel reservations on their mobile device, and its Fastbreak service, expedites rental service for frequent travelers. Budget Truck Our Budget Truck rental business is one of the largest local and one-way truck rental businesses in the United States. As of December 31, 2018, our Budget Truck fleet is comprised of approximately 18,000 vehicles that are rented through a network of approximately 640 dealer-operated and 430 Company-operated locations throughout the continental United States. These dealers are independently-owned businesses that generally operate other retail service businesses. In addition to their principal businesses, the dealers rent our light- and medium-duty trucks to customers and are responsible for collecting payments on our behalf. The dealers receive a commission on all truck and ancillary equipment rentals. The Budget Truck rental business serves both the consumer and light commercial sectors. The consumer sector consists primarily of individuals who rent trucks to move household goods on either a one-way or local basis. The light commercial sector consists of a wide range of businesses that rent light- to medium-duty trucks, which we define as trucks having a gross vehicle weight of less than 26,000 10 Table of Contents pounds, for a variety of commercial applications. Zipcar Zipcar operates one of the worlds leading membership-based car sharing networks, which provides its members on-demand access to vehicles in over 500 cities and towns and at more than 600 college campuses around the world. Zipcar provides its members on-demand, self-service vehicles in reserved parking spaces located in neighborhoods, business districts, office complexes, college campuses and airports, as an alternative to car ownership. Members can reserve vehicles online, on a mobile device or over the phone, by the minute, hour or by the day, at rates that include gasoline, insurance and other costs associated with vehicle ownership. In 2018, we widened Zipcars product offering by launching our Zipcar Commuter product, which is now available in 11 major markets in North America and provides unlimited, sole access to a vehicle and dedicated parking spot for Zipcar members who commute outside of the city for work. We also began offering our Zipcar Flex product in London providing for one-way rentals that are typically at a lower price than ride-hailing services. Other Brands Our Payless brand is a leading rental car supplier positioned to serve the deep-value segment of the vehicle rental industry. We operate or license the Payless brand, which is comprised of approximately 280 locations worldwide, including approximately 120 Company-operated locations and more than 160 locations operated by licensees. Company-operated Payless locations are primarily located in North America, the majority of which are at or near major airports. Payless rental fees are often lower than those of larger, more established brands, but Payless has historically achieved a greater penetration of ancillary products and services with its customers. The Payless business model allows the Company to extend the life-cycle of a portion of our fleet, as we cascade certain vehicles that exceed certain Avis and Budget age or mileage thresholds to be used by Payless. Our Apex brand operates in the deep-value segment of the vehicle rental industry in New Zealand and Australia, where we have approximately 30 rental locations. Apex operates its own rental fleet, separate from Avis and Budget vehicles. Apex generates its reservations through its proprietary websites as well as its contact center and online travel agencies and typically has a greater-than-average length of rental. Apex operates rental locations at, or near, major airports and in several metropolitan cities. Our Maggiore brand is a leading vehicle rental brand in Italy, where we operate or license approximately 140 rental locations under the Maggiore name. Our Maggiore brand has a strong domestic reputation and benefits from a strong presence at airport, off-airport and railway locations, and benefits from the integration of our existing operations and fleet management expertise. In addition, our recently acquired Morini brand is a leading vehicle rental brand in Italy, which offers rental of cars, vans and refrigerated vehicles. We operate or license more than 40 rental locations under the Morini name throughout the country. Our FranceCars brand operates one of the largest light commercial vehicle fleets in France from approximately 85 rental locations and leverages our existing operational processes and local customer base. Our recently acquired Turiscar brand is a leading vehicle rental brand in Portugal, primarily in the corporate market, including light commercial vehicles, from approximately 25 rental locations throughout the country. RESERVATIONS, MARKETING AND SALES Reservations Our customers can make vehicle rental reservations through our brand-specific websites and toll-free reservation centers, by calling a specific location directly, through our brand-specific mobile applications, online travel agencies, travel agents or through selected partners, including many major airlines, associations and retailers. Travel agents can access our reservation systems through all major global distribution systems, which provide information with respect to rental locations, vehicle availability and applicable rate structures. Our Zipcar members may reserve cars by the minute, hour or by the day through Zipcars reservation system, which is accessible through the Zipcar website, through the Zipcar application on their smartphone or by phone. 11 Table of Contents We also provide two-way SMS texting, enabling us to proactively reach out to members during their reservation via their mobile device to manage their reservation, including instant reservation extension. Marketing and Sales We support our brands through a range of marketing channels and campaigns, including traditional media, such as television and print advertising, as well as Internet and email marketing, social media and mobile device applications. We market through sponsorships of major sports entities such as the PGA Tour, the New York Yankees, the Toronto Maple Leafs and Toronto FC. We also market through sponsorships of charitable organizations such as the Make-A-Wish Foundation. We utilize a customer relationship management system that enables us to deliver more targeted and relevant offers to customers across online and offline channels and allows our customers to benefit through better and more relevant marketing, improved service delivery and loyalty programs that reward frequent renters with free rental days and car class upgrades. We maintain strong links to the travel industry including marketing alliances with numerous marketing partners, such as: Many major airlines, including Air Canada, Air France, Air New Zealand, American Airlines, British Airways, Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia Airlines, Japan Airlines, JetBlue Airways, KLM, Lufthansa, Norwegian Air, Qantas, SAS, Southwest Airlines, Virgin America and WestJet Airlines; Many major hotel companies, including Best Western International, Inc., Choice Hotels International, Hyatt Corporation, MGM Resorts International, Radisson Hotels and Resorts, Universal Parks & Resorts and Wyndham Hotels & Resorts and in 2018, we became the exclusive car rental partner of Luxury Retreats, an Airbnb worldwide villa rental company; Offering customers the ability to earn frequent traveler points with many major airlines and hotels frequent traveler programs. We are the exclusive rental partner of the Aeroplan, JetBlue and Wyndham Rewards loyalty programs; and Relationships with non-travel entities, such as affinity groups, membership organizations, retailers, financial institutions and credit card companies. In addition, we developed new relationships that provide brand exposure and access to new customers, including a multi-year deal with Lyft to provide vehicles to the Lyft Express Drive Program in cities across North America, an agreement with Amazon to reward customers who rent an Avis or Budget car with gift cards, and a mobility partnership with Brightline, a privately owned passenger rail service in Florida. Approximately 60% of vehicle rental transactions in 2018 from our Company-operated Avis locations were generated by travelers who rented from Avis under contracts between Avis and their employers or through membership in an organization with which Avis has a contractual affiliation (such as AARP and Costco Wholesale). Avis also maintains marketing relationships with other organizations such as American Express, MasterCard International and others, through which we are able to provide their customers with incentives to rent from Avis. Generally, Avis licensees also have the option to participate in these affiliations. Additionally, we offer Unlimited Rewards , an award-winning loyalty incentive program for travel agents, and Avis and Budget programs for small businesses that offer discounted rates, central billing options and rental credits to members. Budget has contractual arrangements with American Express, MasterCard International and other organizations, which offer members incentives to rent from Budget. Our Zipcar brand also partners with other active lifestyle brands that appeal to our Zipcar members and we organize, sponsor and participate in charitable and community events with organizations that are important to our Zipcar members. Zipcar maintains close relationships with universities that allow us to market to the next generation consumer who, upon graduation, may continue their relationship with us and advocate for broad sponsorship of Zipcar membership at their places of work. Through our Zipcar for Business program, we also offer reduced weekday driving rates to employees of companies, federal agencies and local governments that sponsor the use of Zipcars. 12 Table of Contents LICENSING We have licensees in approximately 175 countries throughout the world. Royalty fee revenue derived from our vehicle rental licensees in 2018 totaled $135 million , with approximately $97 million in our International segment and $38 million in our Americas segment. Licensed locations are independently operated by our licensees and range from large operations at major airport locations and territories encompassing entire countries to relatively small operations in suburban or rural locations. Our licensees generally maintain separate independently owned and operated fleets. Royalties generated from licensing provide us with a source of high-margin revenue because there are relatively limited additional costs associated with fees paid by licensees to us. Locations operated by licensees represented approximately 45% of our Avis and Budget vehicle rental locations worldwide and approximately 31% of total revenue generated by the Avis and Budget Systems in 2018 . We facilitate one-way vehicle rentals between Company-operated and licensed locations, which enables us to offer an integrated network of locations to our customers. We generally enjoy good relationships with our licensees and meet regularly with them at regional, national and international meetings. Our relationships with our licensees are governed by license agreements that grant the licensee the right to operate independently operated vehicle rental businesses in certain territories. Our license agreements generally provide our licensees with the exclusive right to operate under one or more of our brands in their assigned territory. These agreements impose obligations on the licensee regarding its operations, and most agreements restrict the licensees ability to sell, transfer or assign its rights granted under the license agreement or to change the control of its ownership without our consent. The terms of our license agreements, including duration, royalty fees and termination provisions, vary based upon brand, territory, and original signing date. Royalty fees are generally structured to be a percentage of the licensees gross rental income. We maintain the right to monitor the operations of licensees and, when applicable, can declare a licensee to be in default under its license agreement. We perform audits as part of our program to assure licensee compliance with brand quality standards and contract provisions. Generally, we can terminate license agreements for certain defaults, including failure to pay royalties or to adhere to our operational standards. Upon termination of a license agreement, the licensee is prohibited from using our brand names and related marks in any business. In the United States, these license relationships constitute franchises under most federal and state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises and the relationship of the parties to a franchise agreement. We continue to optimize the Avis and Budget Systems by issuing new license agreements and periodically acquiring licensees to grow our revenues and expand our global presence. Discussion of our recent acquisitions is included in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OTHER REVENUE In addition to revenue from our vehicle rentals and licensee royalties, we generate revenue from our customers through the sale and/or rental of optional ancillary products and services. We offer products to customers that will enhance their rental experience, including: collision and loss damage waivers, under which we agree to relieve a customer from financial responsibility arising from vehicle damage incurred during the rental; additional/supplemental liability insurance or personal accident/effects insurance products which provide customers with additional protections for personal or third-party losses incurred; products for driving convenience such as fuel service options, chauffeur drive services, roadside assistance services, electronic toll collection services, curbside dropoff, tablet rentals, access to satellite radio, portable navigation units and child safety seat rentals; and products that supplement truck rental including automobile towing equipment and other moving accessories such as hand trucks, furniture pads and moving supplies. 13 Table of Contents We offer customized bundling of certain of these ancillary products and services, allowing our customers to benefit from discounted pricing and providing customers the flexibility to add multiple products or services that suit their needs. We also receive payment from our customers for certain operating expenses that we incur, including vehicle licensing fees, as well as airport concession fees that we pay in exchange for the right to operate at airports and other locations. In addition, we collect membership fees in connection with our car sharing business. OUR TECHNOLOGIES Vehicle Rental We use a broad range of technologies in our vehicle rental operations, substantially all of which are linked to what we call our Wizard system, which is a worldwide reservation, rental, fleet control, data processing and information management system. The Wizard system enables us to process millions of incoming customer inquiries each day, providing our customers with accurate and timely information about our locations, rental rates and vehicle availability, as well as the ability to place or modify reservations. Additionally, the Wizard system is linked to virtually all major travel distribution networks worldwide and provides real-time processing for travel agents, travel industry partners (such as airlines and online travel sites), corporate travel departments and individual consumers through our websites or contact centers. The Wizard system also provides personal profile information to our reservation and rental agents to help us better serve our customers. We also use data supplied from the Wizard system and other third-party reservation and information management systems to maintain centralized control of major business processes such as fleet acquisition and logistics, sales to corporate accounts and determination of pricing. The principal components of the systems we employ include: Fleet planning model . We have a comprehensive decision tool to develop fleet plans and schedules for the acquisition and disposition of our fleet, along with fleet age, mix, mileage and cost reports, allowing management to monitor and change fleet deployment on a daily basis and to optimize our fleet plan based on estimated business levels and available repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs. Revenue management system . We have a revenue management system which is designed to enhance profitability by providing greater control of vehicle availability, inventory movements and pricing at our rental locations. Our system monitors and forecasts both vehicle supply and customer demand to support our strategy to optimize volume and rate at each location. An integrated fleet distribution module takes into consideration the costs and benefits associated with distributing vehicles to various rental locations within a geographic area to accommodate demand, and make specific recommendations for movement of vehicles between locations. We utilize sophisticated systems to gather and report competitive industry rental rate changes every day using data from third-party reservation systems, which automatically scan rate movements and report significant changes for evaluation. Websites and mobile applications . Our websites and mobile applications leverage our technology across brands and provide a simpler, streamlined experience for our customers. Connected car services application . We have developed an enterprise-wide application that interfaces with various telematics solutions that support our self-service and connected car strategy. This application, among other things, enables a more accurate reading of fuel and mileage to enable a customer to self-service check-out and check-in their vehicle. Campaign management . We have deployed tools that enable us to recognize customer segments and value, and to automatically present appropriate offers on our websites. Interactive adjustments . We have developed a customer data system that allows us to easily retrieve pertinent customer information and make needed adjustments to completed rental transactions online for superior customer service. 14 Table of Contents Car Sharing Our Zipcar car sharing technology was specifically designed and built for our car sharing business and has been continually refined and upgraded. Our fully-integrated platform centralizes the management of our Zipcar reservations, member services, fleet operations and financial systems to optimize the member experience, minimize costs and leverage efficiencies. Our platform allows for basic functions such as processing new member applications, managing reservations and keyless vehicle access, and providing the mobile and website applications used by our members. This platform also allows us to manage and monitor member interactions and communications, billing and payment processing, manage our car sharing fleet, including service and cleanings, vehicle locations and monitor and analyze key metrics of each Zipcar such as utilization rate, mileage and maintenance requirements. Each Zipcar is typically equipped with a combination of telematics modules, including a control unit with mobile data service, radio frequency identification card readers, wireless antennae, wiring harness, vehicle interface modules and transponders for toll systems. This hardware, together with internally developed embedded firmware, vehicle communication protocols and datacenter software, allows us to authorize secure access to our Zipcars from our data centers and provides us with a comprehensive set of fleet management data that is stored in our centralized database. Interactions between members and our Zipcars are captured in our system, across all communication channels, providing us with knowledge we use to improve our members experiences and optimize our business processes. We continue to innovate our technology platform to provide scale to support growth, drive operational efficiency and improve the member experience. OUR FLEET We offer a wide variety of vehicles in our rental fleet, including luxury cars, specialty-use vehicles and light commercial vehicles. Our fleet consists primarily of vehicles from the current and immediately preceding model year. We maintain a single fleet of vehicles for Avis and Budget in countries where we operate both brands. The substantial majority of Zipcars fleet is dedicated to use by Zipcar. We maintain a diverse rental fleet, in which no vehicle manufacturer represented more than 14% of our 2018 fleet purchases, and we regularly adjust our fleet levels to be consistent with demand. We participate in a variety of vehicle purchase programs with major vehicle manufacturers. The following presents the approximate percentage of fleet purchases by manufacturer in 2018. * Includes all manufacturers for which fleet purchases were less than 5%. 15 Table of Contents Fleet costs represented approximately 25% of our aggregate expenses in 2018 . Fleet costs can vary from year to year based on the prices at which we are able to purchase and dispose of rental vehicles. In 2018 , on average, approximately 38% of our rental car fleet was comprised of vehicles subject to agreements requiring automobile manufacturers to repurchase vehicles at a specified price during a specified time period or guarantee our rate of depreciation on the vehicles during a specified period of time, or were vehicles subject to operating leases, which are subject to a fixed lease period and interest rate. We refer to cars subject to these agreements as program cars and cars not subject to these agreements as risk cars because we retain the risk associated with such cars residual values at the time of their disposition. The following graphs present the approximate percentage of program cars in both our average rental car fleet and fleet purchases within each of our reporting segments in the last three years. Our agreements with automobile manufacturers typically require that we pay more for program cars and maintain them in our fleet for a minimum number of months and impose certain return conditions, including car condition and mileage requirements. When we return program cars to the manufacturer, we receive the price guaranteed at the time of purchase and are therefore protected from fluctuations in the prices of previously-owned vehicles in the wholesale market. In 2018 , approximately 54% of the vehicles we disposed of were sold pursuant to repurchase or guaranteed depreciation programs. The future percentages of program and risk cars in our fleet will depend on several factors, including our expectations for future used car prices, our seasonal needs and the availability and attractiveness of manufacturers repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs. We dispose of our risk cars largely through automobile auctions and direct-to-dealer sales. In 2018 , we continued to expand the scope of our direct-to-consumer car sales program to include the sale of our risk cars directly to consumers through our retail lots in several U.S. cities and through our Ultimate Test Drive program, which offers customers the ability to purchase well-maintained, late-model rental vehicles from our rental car fleet. Alternative disposition channels such as direct-to-consumer, online auctions, retail lots and direct-to-dealer sales provide the opportunity to increase vehicle sale prices and reduce relevant fleet costs compared to selling cars at auctions. In 2018 , our average monthly vehicle rental fleet size ranged from a low of approximately 557,000 vehicles in January to a high of approximately 746,000 vehicles in July. Our average monthly car rental fleet size typically peaks in the summer months. Average fleet utilization for 2018 , which is based on the number of rental days (or portion thereof) that vehicles are rented compared to the total amount of time that vehicles are available for rent, ranged from 65% in January to 75% in July. Our calculation of utilization may not be comparable to other companies calculation of similarly titled metrics. 16 Table of Contents We place a strong emphasis on the quality of our vehicle maintenance for customer safety and customer satisfaction reasons, and because quick and proper repairs are critical to fleet utilization. To accomplish this task, we developed specialized training programs for our technicians. Our Maintenance and Damage Planning Department prepares technical service bulletins that can be retrieved electronically at our repair locations. In addition, we have implemented policies and procedures to promptly address manufacturer recalls as part of our ongoing maintenance and repair efforts. CUSTOMER SERVICE Our commitment to delivering a consistently high level of customer service across all of our brands is a critical element of our success and business strategy. Our Customer Led, Service Driven program focuses on continually improving the overall customer experience based on our research of customer service practices, improved customer insights, executing our customer relationship management strategy, delivering customer-centric employee training and leverage our mobile applications technology and the enriched experience it provides our customers. The employees at our Company-operated locations are trained and empowered to resolve most customer issues at the location level. We also continuously track customer-satisfaction levels by sending location-specific surveys to recent customers and utilize detailed reports and tracking to assess and identify ways that we can improve our customer service delivery and the overall customer experience. Our location-specific surveys ask customers to evaluate their overall satisfaction with their rental experience and the likelihood that they will recommend our brands, as well as key elements of the rental experience. Results are analyzed in aggregate and by location to help further enhance our service levels to our customers. We understand our customers time is valuable and we offer rental options that provide greater control and self-service capabilities. While our mobile applications provide a fast customer experience, our customers know a company representative is always available to meet their needs. Our survey platform includes specific questions to learn more about individual preferences and find innovative ways to better serve and anticipate our customers needs. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2018 , we employed approximately 30,000 people worldwide, of whom approximately 8,800 were employed on a part-time basis. Of our approximately 30,000 employees, approximately 18,000 were employed in our Americas segment and 12,000 in our International segment. In our Americas segment, the majority of our employees are at-will employees and, therefore, not subject to any type of employment contract or agreement. Certain of our executive officers may be employed under employment contracts that specify a term of employment and specify pay and other benefits. In our International segment, we enter into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary. The provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. Many of our employees are covered by a variety of union contracts and governmental regulations affecting, among other things, compensation, job retention rights and pensions. As of December 31, 2018 , approximately 27% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements with various labor unions. We believe our employee relations are satisfactory. AIRPORT CONCESSION AGREEMENTS We generally operate our vehicle rental and car sharing services at airports under concession agreements with airport authorities, pursuant to which we typically make airport concession payments and/or lease payments. In general, concession fees for on-airport locations are based on a percentage of total commissionable revenue (as defined by each airport authority), often subject to minimum annual guaranteed amounts. Concessions are typically awarded by airport authorities every three to ten years based upon competitive bids. Our concession agreements with the various airport authorities generally impose certain minimum operating requirements, provide for relocation in the event of future construction and provide for abatement of the minimum annual guarantee in the event of extended low passenger volume. 17 Table of Contents OTHER BUSINESS CONSIDERATIONS SEASONALITY Our vehicle rental business is subject to seasonal variations in customer demand patterns, with the spring and summer vacation periods representing our peak seasons for the majority of the countries in which we operate. We vary our fleet size over the course of the year to help manage any seasonal variations in demand, as well as localized changes in demand. The following chart presents our quarterly revenues for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2017 and 2018. COMPETITION The competitive environment for our industry is generally characterized by intense price and service competition among global, local and regional competitors. Competition in our vehicle rental operations is based primarily upon price, customer service quality, including usability of booking systems and ease of rental and return, vehicle availability, reliability, rental locations, product innovation and national or international distribution. In addition, competition is also influenced strongly by advertising, marketing, loyalty programs and brand reputation. We believe the prominence and service reputation of our brands, extensive worldwide ownership of mobility solutions and commitment to innovation provides us with a competitive advantage. The use of technology has increased pricing transparency among vehicle rental companies and other mobility solutions providers enabling cost-conscious customers to more easily compare on the Internet and their mobile devices the rates available for the mobility solutions that fit their needs. This transparency has further increased the prevalence and intensity of price competition in the industry. Our vehicle rental operations compete primarily with Enterprise Holdings, Inc., which operates the Enterprise, National and Alamo car rental brands; Hertz Global Holdings, Inc., which operates the Hertz, Dollar and Thrifty brands; Europcar Mobility Group, which operates the Europcar, Goldcar, InterRent and Ubeeqo brands; and Sixt AG. We also compete with smaller local and regional vehicle rental companies for vehicle rental market share, and with ride-hailing companies largely for short length trips in urban areas. Our Zipcar brand also competes with various local and regional mobility companies, including mobility services sponsored by several auto manufacturers, ride-hailing and car sharing companies and other technology players in the mobility industry. Our Budget Truck operations in the United States competes with several other local, regional and nationwide truck rental companies including U-Haul International, Inc., Penske Truck Leasing Corporation, Ryder Systems, Inc. and Enterprise. 18 Table of Contents INSURANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Our vehicle rental and corporate operations expose us to various types of claims for bodily injury, death and property damage related to the use of our vehicles and/or properties, as well as general employment-related matters stemming from our operations. We generally retain economic exposure for liability to third parties arising from vehicle rental and car sharing services in the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, in accordance with the minimum financial responsibility requirements (MFRs) and primacy of coverage laws of the relevant jurisdiction. In certain cases, we assume liability above applicable MFRs, up to $1 million per occurrence, other than in cases involving a negligent act on the part of the Company, for which we purchase insurance coverage for exposures beyond retained amounts from a combination of unaffiliated excess insurers. In Europe, we insure the risk of liability to third parties arising from vehicle rental and car sharing services in accordance with local regulatory requirements primarily through insurance policies provided by unaffiliated insurers. We may retain a portion of the insured risk of liability through local deductibles, and by reinsuring certain risks through our captive insurance subsidiary AEGIS Motor Insurance Limited. In Australasia, motor vehicle bodily injury insurance coverage is compulsory and provided upon vehicle registration. In addition, we provide our customers with third-party property damage insurance through an unaffiliated third-party insurer. We retain a share of property damage risk through local deductibles and through AEGIS Motor Insurance Limited. We insure the risk of liability to third parties in Argentina and Brazil through unaffiliated insurers. We offer our U.S. customers a range of optional insurance products and coverages such as supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance, personal effects protection, emergency sickness protection, automobile towing protection and cargo insurance, which create additional risk exposure for us. When a customer elects to purchase supplemental liability insurance or other optional insurance related products, we typically retain economic exposure to loss, since the insurance is provided by an unaffiliated insurer that is reinsuring its exposure through our captive insurance subsidiary, Constellation Reinsurance Co., Ltd. Additional personal accident insurance offered to our customers in Europe and Australasia is provided by a third-party insurer, and reinsured by our Avis Budget Europe International Reinsurance Limited subsidiary. We also maintain excess insurance coverage through unaffiliated carriers to help mitigate our potential exposure to large liability losses. We otherwise bear these and other risks, except to the extent that the risks are transferred through insurance or contractual arrangements. OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely primarily on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, as well as contractual provisions with employees and third parties, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. The service marks Avis, Budget, and Zipcar and related marks or designs incorporating such terms and related logos and marks such as We Try Harder, We Know The Road and Own The Trip, Not The Car are material to our vehicle rental and car sharing businesses. Our subsidiaries and licensees actively use these marks. All of the material marks used by Avis, Budget and Zipcar are registered (or have applications pending for registration) with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as well as in foreign jurisdictions. Our subsidiaries own the marks and other intellectual property, including the Wizard system, used in our business. We also own trademarks and logos related to the Apex Car Rentals brand in Australia and New Zealand, the Payless Car Rental brand in the United States and several other countries, the Maggiore and Morini brands in Italy, the FranceCars brand in France and the Turiscar brand in Portugal. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Avis Budget Group, we take our responsibilities as a corporate citizen seriously. We remain aware of how our actions can benefit the community and are sensitive to the needs of the environment, our customers and our employees. We recognize that being a successful organization means our progress is measured not only in economic terms, but also in the many ways we impact the world around us. We believe in being responsible global corporate citizens and strive to establish and maintain best practices in corporate social responsibility through a focus on: 19 Table of Contents The Environment : As a responsible corporate citizen, we are committed to monitoring, measuring and managing our environmental impact, and working to reduce it where practicable on an ongoing basis. The following illustrate those commitments: Car Sharing: Through our Zipcar brand, operating one of the worlds leading car sharing networks, considered to be one of the most environmentally-friendly transportation alternatives available; Fleet: Offering our customers a wide variety of vehicles that are environmentally friendly, including as defined by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys SmartWay Certification Program; Outreach: Partnering with our corporate customers to help them measure and manage the environmental impact of Avis and Budget rental vehicles used by their employees and, where applicable, partnering to help them achieve their sustainability goals; Compliance: Meeting or voluntarily exceeding the requirements of all federal, state and local health, safety and environmental protection laws; and Reduction: Limiting our use of natural resources and recycling where practicable, whether water, oil, tire rubber, paper, plastic or other materials. Our People and our Customers : We believe that our success has its foundation in how we treat our employees. Avis Budget Group is committed to maintaining a professional and supportive workplace built on trust between employees and management. In concert with our core values, we seek to foster an environment where communication among our employees is open, honest, and respectful; performance is recognized; growth is encouraged; and accomplishments individual and collective are celebrated. We also seek to support the well-being and development of the people we employ and the communities in which they work. The following initiatives reflect our commitment to achieving these goals: Employee Engagement: We periodically measure the success of our workplace initiatives in a Company-wide employee survey. Conducted by an independent third-party to ensure impartiality and confidentiality, the survey is part of a long tradition of listening to what employees have to say about the Company, about the job they do, and about what they expect. The findings from each survey are presented by managers to employees and plans to address areas for improvement are established; Employee Benefits Programs: Our employees are critical to our success. To ensure their well-being and professional growth, we generally offer a competitive salary, plus incentive compensation potential and comprehensive benefits. In addition, we offer health and welfare benefits that may include a range of training, employee assistance and personal development programs to help employees and their families prosper. Our employee benefit programs are all offered and administered in compliance with applicable local law; Live Well Healthy Living: We maintain a comprehensive program of initiatives designed to encourage our employees and their families to be mindful of their health and to enhance their ability to care for themselves and manage their health care expenses; Equal Opportunity Employment: We are committed to providing equal employment opportunity to all applicants and employees without regard to race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, age, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, protected veteran or disability status or any factor prohibited by law, and as such we affirm in policy and practice to support and promote the concept of equal employee opportunity and affirmative action, in accordance with all applicable federal, state, provincial and municipal laws. In addition, the Company will reasonably accommodate known disabilities and religious beliefs of employees and qualified applicants; and Diversity and Inclusion: As a growing global organization, the Company is proud of the diversity of its workforce. We strive to attract and retain talented and diverse people throughout our organization by engaging in several initiatives to support diversity and inclusion, including programs specifically designed to develop female leaders and to assist current and former military personnel. 20 Table of Contents Our Communities : The Company is committed to supporting the communities in which it operates by working with nonprofit organizations focused on assisting those in need such as Make-A-Wish. Through relationships with widely-recognized charitable groups and outreach through the Avis Budget Group Charitable Foundation and employee volunteer teams, the Company and its employees contribute to many worthwhile organizations and deserving causes that help improve and inspire change in our communities. Our Business : We hold our employees to high ethical standards. We place great emphasis on professional conduct, safety and security, information protection and integrity. Ethical Standards: Our employees are required to follow our Code of Conduct. This important document represents the core of our business philosophy and values and covers numerous areas, including standards of work-related behavior; safe work practices; security of information, systems and other assets; conflicts of interest; securities laws; and community service. We provide employees with training to help them understand both our Code of Conduct and how to interpret it in various situations. Sustainable Procurement: Our Third-Party Standards of Conduct represents the Companys commitment to fostering sustainable relationships with our business partners, agents, consultants, suppliers and other third parties and ensuring that they uphold ethical, social and environmental standards. Supplier Diversity: The Company also maintains an industry-leading supplier diversity program to promote the growth and development of suppliers who are disadvantaged, minority-owned or women-owned business enterprises. As a result of our commitment, we are honored to be one of Americas Top Corporations for Womens Business Enterprises for 17 consecutive years and a corporate member of the Billion Dollar Roundtable. Data Protection: We are committed to taking appropriate measures to properly secure information, records, systems and property. Employees are trained to take particular precautions to protect the Company, our employees, vendors and customers, and, in many cases, themselves, from the unlawful or inappropriate use or disclosure of that information. REGULATION We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, including those relating to, among others, consumer protection, insurance products and rates, franchising, customer privacy and data protection, securities and public disclosure, competition and antitrust, environmental matters, taxes, automobile-related liability, corruption and anti-bribery, labor and employment matters, health and safety, claims management, automotive retail sales, currency-exchange and other various banking and financial industry regulations, cost and fee recovery, the protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property, and local ownership or investment requirements. Additional information about the regulations that we are subject to can be found in Item 1A - Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. COMPANY INFORMATION Our principal executive office is located at 6 Sylvan Way, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054 (our telephone number is 973-496-4700). The Company files electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 11-K; proxy materials; ownership reports for insiders as required by Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; registration statements and other forms or reports as required. Certain of the Companys officers and directors also file statements of changes in beneficial ownership on Form 4 with the SEC. Such materials may be accessed electronically on the SECs Internet site (sec.gov). The Company maintains a website (avisbudgetgroup.com) and copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 reports, proxy materials and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished with the SEC are available free of charge in the Investor Relations section of our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. Copies of our board committee charters, Codes of Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines and other corporate governance information are also available on our website. If the Company should decide to amend any of its 21 Table of Contents board committee charters, Codes of Conduct and Ethics or other corporate governance documents, copies of such amendments will be made available to the public through the Companys website. The information contained on the Companys website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a cautionary discussion of the most significant risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business and should be considered carefully in conjunction with all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not an exhaustive list of all of the risks that we face and are not listed by order of priority or materiality. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the factors described in this item could, individually or in the aggregate, cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. Should unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could materially differ from past results and/or those anticipated, estimated or projected. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We face risks related to the high level of competition in the mobility industry. The mobility industry is highly competitive, with price being one of the primary competitive factors. To the extent that our competitors reduce their pricing and we do not provide competitive pricing or if price increases we implement make us less competitive, we risk losing rental volume from existing customers, as well as lessening the chances of success for future bids for new customer accounts. If competitive pressures lead us to lose rental volume or match any downward pricing and we are unable to reduce our operating costs, then our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Additionally, pricing in the vehicle rental industry is impacted by the size of rental fleets and the supply of vehicles available for rent. Any significant fluctuations in the supply of rental vehicles available in the market due to an unexpected decrease in demand, or actions taken by our competitors to increase market share by acquiring more fleet could negatively affect our pricing, operating plans or results of operations if we are unable to adjust the size of our rental fleet in response to fluctuations in demand. We expect that the competitive environment for our mobility services will become more intense as additional companies, including automobile manufacturers, ride-hailing companies, car sharing companies, and other technology players in the mobility industry enter our existing markets or try to expand their operations. Companies offering new mobility business models, including ride-hailing or car sharing services, or autonomous vehicles, may affect demand for rental vehicles. Some of these companies may have access to substantial capital, innovative technologies or have the ability to launch new services at a relatively low cost. To the extent these companies can improve transportation efficiency, alter driving patterns or attitudes toward vehicle rental, offer more competitive prices or fleet management services, more effectively utilize mobile platforms, undertake more aggressive marketing campaigns, price their competing services below market or otherwise disrupt the mobility industry, we risk heightened pricing competition and/or loss of rental volume, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations if we are unable to compete with such efforts. The risk of competition on the basis of pricing in the truck rental industry can be even more impactful than in the car rental industry as it can be more difficult to reduce the size of our truck rental fleet in response to significantly reduced demand. We face risks related to fleet costs. Fleet costs typically represent our single largest expense and can vary from year to year based on the prices that we are able to purchase and dispose of our vehicles. We purchase program cars, which are guaranteed a rate of depreciation through agreements with auto manufacturers, and non-program, or risk vehicles. In 2018 , on average approximately 62% of our rental car fleet was comprised of risk vehicles. The costs of our risk vehicles may be adversely impacted by the relative strength of the used car market, particularly the market for one- to two-year old used vehicles. We currently sell risk vehicles through various sales channels in the used vehicle marketplace, including traditional auctions, on-line auctions, direct-to-dealer sales, and directly to consumers through either retail lots or our Ultimate Test Drive consumer car sales program. These 23 Table of Contents channels may not produce stable vehicle prices in the future, as the market for used vehicles is subject to changes in demand for such vehicles, consumer interests, inventory levels, new car pricing, interest rates, fuel costs, tariffs and general economic conditions. A reduction in residual values for risk vehicles in our rental fleet could cause us to sustain a substantial loss on the ultimate sale of such vehicles or require us to depreciate those vehicles at a more accelerated rate than previously anticipated while we own them. If the market value of the vehicles in our fleet is reduced or our ability to sell vehicles in the used vehicle marketplace were to become severely limited, we may have difficulty meeting collateral requirements due under our asset-backed financing facilities, which could lead to decreased capacity in such facilities and effectively increase our fleet costs or adversely impact our profitability. In addition, if we are unable to meet our collateral requirements under such facilities, the outstanding principal amount due may be required to be repaid earlier than anticipated. If that were to occur, the holders of our asset-backed debt may have the ability to exercise their right to instruct the trustee to direct the return of program cars and/or the sale of risk cars to generate proceeds sufficient to repay such debt. Program and leased vehicles enable us to determine our depreciation expense in advance of purchase. Our program and leased vehicles also generally provide us with flexibility to reduce the size of our fleet rapidly. This flexibility is affected by the percentage of program vehicles in our fleet and the features of the programs provided by auto manufacturers. Our inability to reduce the size of our fleet in response to seasonal demand fluctuations, economic constraints or other changes in demand could have an adverse impact on our fleet costs and results of operations. While we source our fleet purchases from a wide range of auto manufacturers, our program purchases expose us to risk to the extent that any of these auto manufacturers significantly curtail production, increase the cost of purchasing program vehicles or decline to sell program vehicles to us on terms or at prices consistent with past agreements. Should any of these risks occur, we may be unable to obtain a sufficient number of vehicles to operate our business without significantly increasing our fleet costs or reducing our volumes. Failure by a manufacturer to fulfill its obligations under any program agreement or incentive payment obligation could leave us with a material expense if we are unable to dispose of program cars at prices estimated at the time of purchase or with a substantial unpaid claim against the manufacturer, particularly with respect to program cars that were either (i) resold for an amount less than the amount guaranteed under the applicable program and therefore subject to a true-up payment obligation from the manufacturer; or (ii) returned to the manufacturer, but for which we were not yet paid, and therefore we could incur a substantial loss as a result of such failure to perform. We face risks related to safety recalls affecting our vehicles. Our vehicles may be subject to safety recalls by their manufacturers that could have an adverse impact on our business when we remove recalled vehicles from our rentable fleet. We cannot control the number of vehicles that will be subject to manufacturer recalls in the future. Recalls often require us to retrieve vehicles from customers and/or hold vehicles until we can arrange for the repairs described in the recalls to be completed. As such, recalls can result in incremental costs, negatively impact our revenues and/or reduce our fleet utilization. If a large number of vehicles were to be the subject of simultaneous recalls, or if needed replacement parts were not in adequate supply, we may be unable to utilize recalled vehicles for a significant period of time. We could also face liability claims related to vehicles subject to a safety recall. Depending on the nature and severity of the recall, it could create customer service problems, reduce the residual value of the vehicles involved, harm our general reputation and/or have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Weakness in travel demand or general economic conditions, and/or a significant increase in fuel costs, can adversely impact our business. Demand for vehicle rentals can be subject to and impacted by international, national and local economic conditions. If travel demand or economic conditions in the United States, Europe and/or worldwide were to weaken, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. Any significant airline capacity reductions, airfare or related fee increases, reduced flight schedules, or any events that disrupt or reduce business or leisure air travel or weaken travel demand and tourism, such as work 24 Table of Contents stoppages, military conflicts, terrorist incidents, natural disasters, disease epidemics, or the response of governments to any such events, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Likewise, any significant increases in fuel prices, a severe protracted disruption in fuel supplies or rationing of fuel could discourage our customers from renting vehicles or reduce or disrupt air travel, which could also adversely impact our results of operations. Our truck rental business can be impacted by the housing market. If conditions in the housing market were to weaken, we may see a reduction in truck rental transactions, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We face risks related to our ability to successfully implement our business strategies and to preserve the value of our brands. Our strategic objectives involve winning and retaining customers through supporting and strengthening our brands, increasing operational efficiency and margins and enhancing our position in the evolving mobility industry. We see significant potential in the areas of optimizing our pricing, customer mix and sales of ancillary products and services; optimizing our procurement, deployment and disposition of vehicles, including increased use of non-auction channels for selling our risk cars; and applying connected-car/in-vehicle systems and other emerging technologies in our operations. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our strategic initiatives, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. The Company continues to further streamline its administrative and shared-services infrastructure through a restructuring program that identifies and replicates best practices, leverages the scale and capabilities of third-party service providers, and is designed to increase the global standardization and consolidation of non-rental-location functions over time. We cannot be certain that such initiatives will continue to be successful. Failure to successfully implement any of these initiatives could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Any failure to adapt to changes in the mobility industry, provide a high-quality rental experience for our customers and members, adopt new technologies, capitalize on cost saving initiatives or meet customer needs could substantially harm our reputation and competitiveness, and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks related to political, economic and commercial instability or uncertainty in the countries in which we operate. Our global operations expose us to a number of risks, including exposure to a wide range of international, national and local economic and political conditions and instability. For example, our operations in the United Kingdom includes a significant amount of cross-border business that could be negatively impacted by the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Uncertainty related to the proposed withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union could lead to volatility in the global financial markets, adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes, and could impact the economies of the United Kingdom and other countries in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results in such countries. Operating our business in a number of different regions and countries exposes us to a number of risks, including: multiple and potentially conflicting laws, regulations, trade policies and agreements that are subject to change; varying tax regimes, including consequences from changes in applicable tax laws; the imposition of currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or other restraints, as well as difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; potential changes to import-export laws, trade treaties or tariffs in the countries where we purchase vehicles; local ownership or investment requirements, or compliance with local laws, regulations or business practices; 25 Table of Contents uncertainty and changes to political and regulatory regimes as a result of changing social, political, regulatory and economic environments in the United States and internationally; national and international conflict, including terrorist acts; and political and economic instability or civil unrest that may severely disrupt economic activity in affected countries. Exposure to these risks may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our licensees vehicle rental operations may also be impacted by political, economic and commercial instability, which in turn could impact the amount of royalty payments they make to us. We face risks related to third-party distribution channels that we rely upon. We rely upon third-party distribution channels to generate a significant portion of our car rental reservations, including: traditional and online travel agencies, airlines and hotel companies, marketing partners such as credit card companies and membership organizations and other entities that help us attract customers; and global distribution systems (GDS), such as Amadeus, Galileo/Apollo, Sabre and Worldspan, that connect travel agents, travel service providers and corporations to our reservation systems. Changes in our pricing agreements, commission schedules or arrangements with third-party distribution channels, the termination of any of our relationships or a reduction in the transaction volume of such channels, or a GDSs inability to process and communicate reservations to us could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations, particularly if our customers are unable to access our reservation systems through alternate channels. We face risks related to our reliance on communications networks and centralized information systems. We rely heavily on the satisfactory performance and availability of our information systems, including our reservation systems, websites and network infrastructure to attract and retain customers, accept reservations, process rental and sales transactions, manage our fleet of vehicles, account for our activities and otherwise conduct our business. We have centralized our information systems and we rely on third-party communications service and system providers to provide technology services and link our systems with the business locations these systems were designed to serve. A failure or interruption that results in the unavailability of any of our information systems, or a major disruption of communications between a system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of reservations, interfere with our fleet management, slow rental and sales processes, create negative publicity that damages our reputation or otherwise adversely impacts our ability to manage our business effectively. We may experience system interruptions or disruptions for a variety of reasons, including as the result of network failures, power outages, cyber attacks, employee errors, software errors, an unusually high volume of visitors attempting to access our systems, or localized conditions such as fire, explosions or power outages or broader geographic events such as earthquakes, storms, floods, epidemics, strikes, acts of war, civil unrest or terrorist acts. Because we are dependent in part on independent third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our systems and because some of the causes of system interruptions may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. Our systems business continuity plans and insurance programs seek to mitigate such risks but they cannot fully eliminate the risks as a disruption could be experienced in any of our information systems. We face risks related to cybersecurity breaches of our systems and information technology. Threats to network and data security are becoming increasingly diverse and sophisticated. As cybersecurity threats become more frequent, intense and sophisticated, costs of proactive defense measures may increase. Third parties may have the technology or expertise to breach the security of our customer transaction data and our security measures may not prevent physical security or cybersecurity breaches, which could result in substantial harm to our business, our reputation or our results of operations. We rely on encryption and/or 26 Table of Contents authentication technology licensed from and, at times, administered by independent third parties to secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers and other customer personal information. Our outsourcing agreements with these third-party service providers generally require that they have adequate security systems in place to protect our customer transaction data. However, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other cybersecurity developments could render our security systems and information technology, or those used by our third-party service providers, vulnerable to a breach. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Risks of cybersecurity incidents caused by malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption, and other security defenses, could include hacking, viruses, malicious software, ransomware, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks and other attempts to capture, disrupt or gain unauthorized access to data are rapidly evolving and could lead to disruptions in our reservation system or other data systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information or corruption of data. The techniques used by third parties change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. Any successful efforts by individuals to infiltrate, break into, disrupt, damage or otherwise steal from the Companys, its licensees or its third-party service providers security or information systems could damage our reputation and expose us to increased costs, litigation or other liability that could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Failure to appropriately address these issues could also give rise to potentially material legal risks and liabilities. We face risks related to our property leases and vehicle rental concessions. We lease or have vehicle rental concessions at locations throughout the world, including at most airports where we operate, and at train stations throughout Europe, where vehicle rental companies are frequently required to bid periodically for space at these locations. If we were to lose a property lease or vehicle rental concession, particularly at an airport or a train station in a major metropolitan area, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find a suitable replacement location on reasonable terms which could adversely impact our business. We face risks related to the seasonality of our business. In our business, the third quarter of the year has historically been our most profitable quarter as measured by net income and Adjusted EBITDA due to the increased level of summer leisure travel and household moving activity. We vary our fleet size over the course of the year to help manage seasonal variations in demand, as well as localized changes in demand that we may encounter in the various regions in which we operate. Any circumstance or occurrence that disrupts rental activity during the third quarter, especially in North America and Europe, could have a disproportionately adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on our senior management and other key personnel. Our success depends on our senior management team and other key personnel, our ability to effectively recruit and retain high quality employees, and replace those who retire or resign. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. Failure to retain and motivate our senior management and to hire, retain and develop other important personnel could impact our management and operations, ability to execute our strategies and adversely affect our business and operating results. We face risks related to acquisitions, including the acquisition of existing licensees or investments in or partnerships with other related businesses. We may engage in strategic transactions, including the acquisition of or investment in existing licensees and/or other related businesses, or partnerships or joint ventures with companies in related or cross-function lines of business. The risks involved in engaging in these strategic transactions include the possible failure to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses, or to realize the expected benefits of such transactions within the anticipated time frame, or at all, such as cost savings, synergies, sales and growth opportunities. In addition, the integration of an acquired business or oversight of a partnership or joint venture may result in material unanticipated challenges, expenses, liabilities or competitive responses, including: 27 Table of Contents a failure to implement our strategy for a particular strategic transaction, including successfully integrating the acquired business into our existing infrastructure, or a failure to realize value from a strategic partnership, joint venture or other investment; inconsistencies between our standards, procedures and policies and those of the acquired business, partnership and/or joint venture; costs or inefficiencies associated with the integration of our operational and administrative systems; the increased scope and complexity of our operations could require significant attention from management and could impose constraints on our operations or other projects; unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions, including required regulatory or other third-party approvals or consents, or provisions in contracts with third parties that could limit our flexibility to take certain actions; an inability to retain the customers, employees, suppliers and/or marketing partners of the acquired business, partnership or joint venture or generate new customers or revenue opportunities through a strategic partnership; the costs of compliance with local laws and regulations and the implementation of compliance processes, as well as the assumption of unexpected liabilities, litigation, penalties or other enforcement actions; and higher than expected costs arising due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies. Any one of these factors could result in delays, increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues related to combining the companies or derived from a strategic transaction and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks related to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our operations generate revenue and incur operating costs in a variety of currencies. The financial position and results of operations of many of our foreign subsidiaries are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in exchange rates among these currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. While we take steps to manage our currency exposure, such as currency hedging, we may not be able to effectively limit our exposure to intermediate- or long-term movements in currency exchange rates, which could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks related to our derivative instruments. We typically utilize derivative instruments to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and gasoline prices. The derivative instruments we use to manage our risk are usually in the form of interest rate swaps and caps and foreign exchange and commodity contracts. Periodically, we are required to determine the change in fair value, called the mark to market, of some of these derivative instruments, which could expose us to substantial mark-to-market losses or gains if such rates or prices fluctuate materially from the time the derivatives were entered into. Accordingly, volatility in rates or prices may adversely impact our financial position or results of operations and could impact the cost and effectiveness of our derivative instruments in managing our risks. We face risks related to liability and insurance. Our global operations expose us to several forms of liability, including claims for bodily injury, death and property damage related to the use of our vehicles, or for having our customers on our premises, as well as workers compensation and other employment-related claims by our employees. We may become exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our historical levels resulting from unusually high losses or otherwise. In addition, liabilities in respect of existing or future claims may exceed the level of our reserves and/or our insurance, which 28 Table of Contents could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, insurance with unaffiliated insurers may not continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all. Should we be subject to an adverse ruling, or experience other significant liability for which we did not plan and are unable to adequately insure against such liability, our results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be negatively impacted. We reinsure certain insurance exposures as well as offer optional insurance coverages through unaffiliated third-party insurers, which then reinsure all or a portion of their risks through our insurance company subsidiaries, which subjects us to regulation under various insurance laws and statutes in the jurisdictions in which our insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled. Any changes in regulations that alter or impede our reinsurance obligations or insurance subsidiary operations could adversely impact the economic benefits that we rely upon to support our reinsurance efforts, which in turn would adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Optional insurance products that we offer to renters in the United States, including, but not limited to, supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance and personal effects protection, are regulated under state laws governing such products. Our car rental operations outside the United States must also comply with certain local laws and regulations regarding the sale of supplemental liability and personal accident and effects insurance by intermediaries. Any changes in law that affect our operating requirements with respect to our sale of optional insurance products could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenue and profitability. Should more of our customers decline to purchase optional liability insurance products as a result of any changes in these laws or otherwise, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. We offer loss damage waivers to our customers as an option for them to reduce their financial responsibility that may be incurred as a result of loss or damage to the rental vehicle. Certain states in the United States have enacted legislation that mandates disclosure to each customer at the time of rental that damage to the rented vehicle may be covered to some extent by the customers personal automobile insurance and that loss damage waivers may not be necessary. In addition, some states have statutes that establish or cap the daily rate that can be charged for loss damage waivers. Should new laws or regulations arise that place new limits on our ability to offer loss damage waivers to our customers, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, current U.S. federal law pre-empts state laws that impute tort liability based solely on ownership of a vehicle involved in an accident. If such federal law were to change, our insurance liability exposure could materially increase. We may be unable to collect amounts that we believe are owed to us by customers, insurers and other third parties related to vehicle damage claims or liabilities. The inability to collect such amounts in a timely manner or to the extent that we expect could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Costs associated with lawsuits, investigations or increases in legal reserves that we establish based on our assessment of contingent liabilities may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our global operations expose us to various claims, lawsuits and other legal proceedings that arise in and outside of the ordinary course of our business in the countries in which we operate. We may be subject to complaints and/or litigation involving our customers, licensees, employees, independent operators and others with whom we conduct business, including claims for bodily injury, death and property damage related to use of our vehicles or our locations by customers, or claims based on allegations of discrimination, misclassification as exempt employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act, wage and hourly pay disputes, and various other claims. We could be subject to substantial costs and/or adverse outcomes from such complaints or litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. We outsource some of our business functions to third parties, including operations at many of our Company-owned locations, which are third-party independent operators who receive commissions to operate such locations. We are involved or may become involved in legal proceedings and investigations that claim that our third-party independent operators should instead be treated as employees. There can be no assurance that legislative, judicial or regulatory authorities will not assert interpretations of existing laws or introduce new 29 Table of Contents regulations that would mandate that we change the classification of these operators. In the event of such a reclassification, we could be exposed to material liabilities and additional costs which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. These liabilities and additional costs could include exposure under federal, state and local tax laws, workers compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, and employment laws, as well as potential liability for penalties and interest. From time to time, our Company and/or other companies in the vehicle rental industry may be reviewed or investigated by government regulators, which could lead to tax assessments, enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of claims, investigations and lawsuits, and we could in the future incur judgments, taxes, fines or penalties or enter into settlements of lawsuits or claims that could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to exposure for certain types of legal claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against any such claims. As required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we establish reserves based on our assessment of actual or potential loss contingencies, including contingencies related to legal claims asserted against us. Subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of such loss contingencies and require us to make payments in excess of our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks related to laws and regulations that could impact our global operations. We are subject to multiple, and sometimes conflicting, laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate that relate to, among others, consumer protection, competition and antitrust, customer privacy and data protection, securities and public disclosure, automotive retail sales, franchising, corruption and anti-bribery, environmental matters, taxes, automobile-related liability, labor and employment matters, cost and fee recovery, currency-exchange and other various banking and financial industry regulations, health and safety, insurance rates and products, claims management, protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property and other trade-related laws and regulations. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of certain of these laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar foreign laws and regulations. Our continued global operations and expansion could increase the risk of governmental investigations and violations of such laws. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our global operations may be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws may be administered or interpreted. Any alleged or actual violations of any law or regulation, change in law, regulation, trade treaties or tariffs, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, limit our ability to provide services in any of the countries in which we operate and could result in a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position or results of operations. In certain countries in which we have Company-operated locations, we may recover certain costs from consumers, including costs associated with the title and registration of our vehicles, or concession costs imposed by an airport authority or the owner and/or operator of the premises from which our vehicles are rented. We may in the future be subject to potential laws or regulations that could negatively impact our ability to separately state, charge and recover such costs, which could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to privacy, data protection, security transfer and other regulations, as well as private industry standards, that could negatively impact our global operations and cause us to incur additional incremental expense that impacts our future operating results. Our business requires the secure processing and storage of sensitive information relating to our customers, employees, business partners and others. Current consumer privacy and data protection laws, particularly the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation which became effective in 2018 (the GDPR), and other regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate limit the types of information that we may collect, process and retain about our customers and other individuals with whom we deal or propose to deal, some of which may be non-public personally identifiable information. The GDPR, which is wide-ranging in scope, provides EU residents greater control over their personal data and imposes several requirements relating to the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, the security and 30 Table of Contents confidentiality of the personal data, data breach notification and the use of third-party processors in connection with the processing of personal data. It also imposes significant forfeitures and penalties for noncompliance. The Company has adopted policies and procedures in compliance with the GDPR, however, such policies and procedures may need to be updated as additional information concerning best practices is made available through guidance from regulatory authorities or published enforcement decisions. Other privacy laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. Complying with varying jurisdictional privacy requirements could increase our operating costs, divert management attention or require additional changes to our business practices. Should we be found to not be in compliance with the GDPR or similar privacy and data protection laws, we could be subject to substantial monetary forfeitures and other penalties that could negatively impact our operating results or harm our reputation. The centralized nature of our information systems requires the routine flow of information about customers and potential customers across national borders, particularly in the United States and Europe. Should this flow of information become illegal or subject to onerous restrictions, our ability to serve our customers could be negatively impacted for an extended period of time. In addition, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether as a result of our own error or the actions of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities that adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. Privacy and data protection laws and regulations restrict the ways that we process our transaction information and the Payment Card Industry imposes strict customer credit card data security standards to ensure that our customers credit card information is protected. Failure to meet these data security standards could result in substantial increased fees to credit card companies, other liabilities and/or loss of the right to collect credit card payments, which could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks related to environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a wide variety of environmental laws and regulations in connection with our operations, including, among other things, with respect to the ownership or use of tanks for the storage of petroleum products such as gasoline, diesel fuel and motor and waste oils; the treatment or discharge of waste waters; and the generation, storage, transportation and off-site treatment or disposal of solid or liquid wastes. We maintain liability insurance covering storage tanks at our locations. In the United States, we administer an environmental compliance program designed to ensure that these tanks are properly registered in the jurisdiction in which they are located and are in compliance with applicable technical and operational requirements. The tank systems located at each of our locations may not at all times remain free from undetected leaks, and the use of these tanks may result in significant spills, which may require remediation and expose us to material uninsured liability or liabilities in excess of insurance. We may also be subject to requirements related to the remediation of substances that have been released into the environment at properties owned or operated by us or at properties to which we send substances for treatment or disposal. Such remediation requirements may be imposed without regard to fault and liability for environmental remediation can be substantial. These remediation requirements and other environmental regulations differ depending on the country where the property is located. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including, among others, expenditures for the remediation of contamination at our owned and leased properties, as well as contamination at other locations at which our wastes have reportedly been identified. Our compliance with existing or future environmental laws and regulations may, however, require material expenditures by us or otherwise have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Environmental regulatory authorities are likely to continue to pursue measures related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Should rules establishing limitations on greenhouse gas emissions or rules imposing fees on entities deemed to be responsible for greenhouse gas emission become effective in the countries in which we operate, demand for our services could be affected, our fleet and/or other costs could increase, and our business could be adversely impacted. We face risks related to franchising or licensing laws and regulations. We license to third parties the right to operate locations using our brands in exchange for royalty payments. Our licensing activities are subject to various laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. In particular, laws in the United States require that we provide extensive disclosure to prospective licensees in connection with 31 Table of Contents licensing offers and sales, as well as comply with franchise relationship laws that could limit our ability to, among other things, terminate license agreements or withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements. We are also subject to certain regulations affecting our license arrangements in Europe and other international locations. Although our licensing operations have not been materially adversely affected by such existing regulations, such regulations could have a greater impact on us if we were to become more active in granting or selling new licenses to third parties. Should our operations become subject to new laws or regulations that negatively impact our ability to engage in licensing activities, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. We face risks related to the actions of, or failures to act by, our licensees, dealers, independent operators or third-party vendors. Our vehicle rental licensee and dealer locations are independently owned and operated. We also operate many of our Company-owned locations through agreements with independent operators, which are third-party independent contractors who receive commissions to operate such locations. We also enter into service contracts with various third-party vendors that provide services for us or in support of our business. Under our agreements with our licensees, dealers, independent operators and third-party vendors (collectively referred to as third-party operators), the third-party operators retain control over the employment and management of all personnel at their locations or in support of the services that they provide our Company. These agreements also generally require that third-party operators comply with all laws and regulations applicable to their businesses, including relevant internal policies and standards. Regulators, courts or others may seek to hold us responsible for the actions of, or failures to act by, third-party operators or their employees based on theories of vicarious liability, negligence, joint operations or joint employer liability. Although we actively monitor the operations of these third-party operators, and under certain circumstances have the ability to terminate their agreements for failure to adhere to contracted operational standards, we are unlikely to detect all misconduct or noncompliance by the third-party operator or its employees. Moreover, there are occasions when the actions of third-party operators may not be clearly distinguishable from our own. It is our policy to vigorously seek to be dismissed from any claims involving third-party operators and to pursue indemnity for any adverse outcomes that affect the Company. Failure of third-party operators to comply with laws and regulations or our operational standards, or our inability to be dismissed from claims against our third-party operators, may expose us to liability, damages and negative publicity that may damage our brand and reputation and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks related to our protection of our intellectual property. We have registered certain marks and designs as trademarks in the United States and in certain other countries. At times, competitors may adopt service names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our registered trademarks. From time to time, we have acquired or attempted to acquire Internet domain names held by others when such names have caused consumer confusion or had the potential to cause consumer confusion. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights related to trademarks, trade secrets, domain names, copyrights or other intellectual property may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. We face risks associated with tax reform. In 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) was signed into law, which broadly reforms the U.S. corporate income tax system. Several provisions of the Tax Act affect the Company, specifically the provision eliminating the use of like-kind exchange for personal property and the provision allowing for full expensing of qualified property purchases through the year 2022. Since 2004, we have utilized a like-kind exchange program whereby we replace vehicles in a manner that allows tax gains on vehicles sold in the U.S. to be deferred, resulting in a material deferral of U.S. federal and state income taxes. The Tax Act repealed like-kind exchange treatment for vehicle sales as of January 1, 2018. The effect of the elimination of our like-kind exchange will be largely offset through 2022 by the full expensing provision of certain business assets in the year placed in service, which we believe includes our vehicles. However, an extended downsizing of our fleet would significantly decrease the amount of tax deductions available under the full expensing provision. This would result in the utilization of tax attributes and increased federal and state income tax liabilities that could require us to make material cash payments. Such a downsizing or reduction in purchases would likely occur if, and to the extent, we are unable to 32 Table of Contents obtain financing when our asset-backed rental car financings mature, or in connection with a significant decrease in demand for vehicle rentals. In addition, the full expensing provision phases out at the end of year 2022 and we are not certain if this provision will be extended. U.S. states continue to modify their tax statutes as a result of the Tax Act and such state legislation could negate the full expensing benefits granted under the Tax Act or negatively impact our tax liability in that state. Therefore, we cannot offer assurance that the benefits from the expected tax deductions will continue. The Tax Act also makes significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code applicable to corporations. Such changes include a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate, a mandatory one-time repatriation tax on undistributed historic earnings of foreign subsidiaries, elimination or limitation of the deductibility of certain business expenses, and requiring the inclusion in the U.S. tax base certain earnings generated by foreign subsidiaries, among other changes. While the Company believes it will not be materially impacted by these changes, the ultimate impact of the Tax Act may differ from our current estimates due to changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, legislative action, changes in accounting standards for income taxes, among other things, which could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS We face risks related to our current and future debt obligations. Our ability to satisfy and manage our debt obligations depends on our ability to generate cash flow and on overall financial market conditions. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our outstanding debt obligations require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flows to pay interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for other purposes. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to permit us to service our debt obligations and meet our other cash needs, which may force us to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell or curtail assets or operations, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If we must sell or curtail our assets or operations, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue. Certain of our debt obligations contain restrictive covenants and provisions applicable to us and our subsidiaries that limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or acquisitions and other purposes; provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; pay dividends or distributions, redeem or repurchase capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; create or incur liens; make distributions from our subsidiaries; sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; and respond to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, as well as changes in government regulation and changes to our business. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants contained in the agreements or instruments that govern our debt obligations, if not waived, would cause a default under our senior credit facility and could result in a cross-default under several of our other debt obligations, including our U.S. and European asset-backed debt facilities. If such a default were to occur, certain provisions in our various debt agreements could require that we repay or accelerate debt payments to the lenders or holders of our debt, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance or obtain a replacement for such financing programs. 33 Table of Contents We face risks related to movements or disruptions in the credit and asset-backed securities markets. We finance our vehicle fleet purchases and operations through the use of asset-backed securities in the United States, Canada, Australia and Europe and other debt financing structures available through the credit markets. If the asset-backed financing and/or credit markets were to be disrupted for any reason, we may be unable to obtain refinancing for our operations or vehicle fleet purchases at current levels, or at all, when our respective asset-backed financings or debt financings mature. Likewise, any disruption of the asset-backed financing or credit markets could also increase our borrowing costs, as we seek to engage in new financings or refinance our existing financings. In addition, we could be subject to increased collateral requirements to the extent that we request any amendment or renewal of any of our existing asset-backed or debt financings. We face risks related to potential increases in interest rates. A portion of our borrowings, primarily our vehicle-backed borrowings, bears interest at variable rates that expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, whether due to an increase in market interest rates or an increase in our own cost of borrowing, our debt service obligations for our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount of borrowings remained the same, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2018 , our total outstanding debt of approximately $13.8 billion included unhedged interest rate sensitive debt of approximately $4.1 billion. During our seasonal borrowing peak in 2018 , outstanding unhedged interest rate sensitive debt totaled approximately $5.5 billion. Virtually all of our debt under vehicle programs and certain of our corporate indebtedness matures within the next five years. If we are unable to refinance maturing indebtedness at interest rates that are equivalent to or lower than the interest rates on our maturing debt, our results of operations or our financial condition may be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK We face risks related to the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. The market price of our common stock experienced substantial volatility in the past and may fluctuate widely in the future, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: weakness in general economic conditions and credit markets; changes in consumers, investors and analysts perceptions of our industry, business or related industries; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry, including our key suppliers; financial estimates that we provide to the public, any changes in such estimates, or our failure to meet such estimates; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, dispositions, strategies, management or stockholder changes, marketing affiliations, projections, fleet costs, pricing actions or other competitive actions; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; overall stock market fluctuations; 34 Table of Contents success or failure of competitive service offerings or technologies; tax or regulatory developments in the United States and other countries in which we operate; litigation involving us; actions of activist stockholders and responses from our Board and senior management; and the timing and amount of any share repurchases by us. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to litigation, including class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Our stockholders percentage of ownership may be diluted in the future. Our stockholders percentage of ownership may be diluted in the future due to equity issuances or equity awards that we granted or will grant to our directors, officers and employees. In addition, we may undertake acquisitions financed in part through public or private offerings of securities, or other arrangements. If we issue equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities would have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. We expect to continue to grant restricted stock units, stock options and/or other types of equity awards in the future. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and Delaware law could prevent or delay a potential acquisition of control of our Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and the laws in the State of Delaware contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the prospective acquirer and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by effectively requiring those who seek to obtain control of the Company to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition of control. However, these provisions could apply even if an acquisition of control of the Company may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition of control that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of our Company and our stockholders. Our business could be adversely impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others. The Company values constructive input from investors and regularly engages in dialogue with its stockholders regarding strategy and performance. The Companys Board of Directors and management team are committed to acting in the best interests of all of the Companys stockholders. There is no assurance that the actions taken by the Board of Directors and management in seeking to maintain constructive engagement with the Companys stockholders will be successful, and we may be subject to formal or informal actions or requests from stockholders or others. Responding to such actions could be costly and time-consuming, divert attention of management and employees, and may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow and the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 35 Table of Contents Our principal executive offices are located at 6 Sylvan Way, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054 pursuant to a lease agreement that expires in 2023. We own a facility in Virginia Beach, Virginia, which serves as a satellite administrative facility for our car and truck rental operations. We also lease office space in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Boston, Massachusetts, pursuant to leases expiring in 2022 and 2023, respectively. These locations primarily provide operational and administrative services or contact center operations for our Americas segment. We also lease office space in Bracknell, England, Budapest, Hungary and Barcelona, Spain, pursuant to leases expiring in 2027, 2021 and 2019, respectively, for corporate offices, contact center activities and other administrative functions, respectively, for our International segment. Other office locations throughout the world are leased for administrative, regional sales and operations activities. We lease or have vehicle rental concessions for our brands at locations throughout the world. We own approximately 2% of the locations from which we operate and in some cases we sublease to franchisees or other third parties. The remaining locations from which we operate our vehicle rental businesses are leased or operated under concession agreements with governmental authorities and private entities. Those leases and concession agreements typically require the payment of minimum rents or minimum concession fees and often also require us to pay or reimburse operating expenses, to pay additional rent, or concession fees above guaranteed minimums, based on a percentage of revenues or sales arising at the relevant premises, or to do both. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding lease commitments. We believe that our properties are sufficient to meet our present needs and we do not anticipate any difficulty in securing additional space, as needed, on acceptable terms. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS For information regarding legal proceedings, see Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 36 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the symbol CAR. At January 31, 2019 , the number of stockholders of record was 2,517. DIVIDEND POLICY We neither declared nor paid any cash dividend on our common stock in 2018 and 2017 , and we do not currently anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock. However, we evaluate our dividend policy on a regular basis and may pay dividends in the future, subject to compliance with the covenants in our senior credit facility, the indentures governing our senior notes and our vehicle financing programs. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will also depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our businesses, covenants associated with certain debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that the Board of Directors deems relevant. SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS The following table provides information about shares of our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options and restricted stock units under all of our existing equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2018 . Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants, Rights and Restricted Stock Units (a) Weighted-Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights (Excludes Restricted Stock Units) ($) Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in First Column) (b) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 2,457,610 $ 0.79 5,889,509 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders Total 2,457,610 $ 0.79 5,889,509 __________ (a) Includes options and other awards granted under the Amended and Restated Equity and Incentive Plan, which plan was approved by stockholders. (b) Represents 3,469,070 shares available for issuance under the Amended and Restated Equity and Incentive Plan and 2,420,439 shares available for issuance pursuant to the 2009 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 37 Table of Contents ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The following is a summary of the Companys common stock repurchases by month for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 : Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (a) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased under the Plans or Programs October 2018 672,141 $ 31.83 672,141 $ 200,501,901 November 2018 804,549 29.89 804,549 176,451,029 December 2018 989,200 26.23 989,200 150,501,899 Total 2,465,890 $ 28.95 2,465,890 $ 150,501,899 ________ (a) Excludes, for the three months ended December 31, 2018, 106 shares which were withheld by the Company to satisfy employees income tax liabilities attributable to the vesting of restricted stock unit awards. The Companys Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to approximately $1.7 billion of its common stock under a plan originally approved in 2013 and subsequently expanded, most recently in August 2018. The Company s stock repurchases may occur through open market purchases or trading plans pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The amount and timing of specific repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time without prior notice. The repurchase program has no set expiration or termination date. 38 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH Set forth below are a line graph and table comparing the cumulative total stockholder return of our common stock against the cumulative total returns of peer group indices, the S&P Midcap 400 Index, the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Transportation Average Index for the period of five fiscal years commencing December 31, 2013 and ending December 31, 2018 . The broad equity market indices used by the Company are the S&P Midcap 400 Index, which measures the performance of mid-sized companies and the Dow Jones U.S. Transportation Average Index, which measures the performance of transportation companies. The Company has elected to begin using the S&P Midcap 400 Index in place of the S&P 500 Index for future period comparisons because the S&P Midcap 400 Index is a more appropriate benchmark in light of the Companys equity market capitalization. The graph and table depict the result of an investment on December 31, 2013 of $100 in the Companys common stock, the S&P Midcap 400 Index, the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Transportation Average Index, including investment of dividends. As of December 31, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Avis Budget Group, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 164.10 $ 89.78 $ 90.75 $ 108.56 $ 55.62 S&P Midcap 400 Index $ 100.00 $ 109.77 $ 107.38 $ 129.65 $ 150.71 $ 134.01 S&P 500 Index $ 100.00 $ 113.69 $ 115.26 $ 129.05 $ 157.22 $ 150.33 Dow Jones U.S. Transportation Average Index $ 100.00 $ 125.07 $ 104.11 $ 127.36 $ 151.58 $ 132.90 39 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA As of or For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 (In millions, except per share data) Results of Operations Revenues $ 9,124 $ 8,848 $ 8,659 $ 8,502 $ 8,485 Net income $ 165 $ 361 $ 163 $ 313 $ 245 Adjusted EBITDA (a) $ 781 $ 735 $ 838 $ 903 $ 876 Earnings per share Basic $ 2.08 $ 4.32 $ 1.78 $ 3.02 $ 2.32 Diluted 2.06 4.25 1.75 2.98 2.22 Financial Position Total assets $ 19,149 $ 17,699 $ 17,643 $ 17,634 $ 16,842 Assets under vehicle programs 12,779 11,879 11,578 11,716 11,058 Corporate debt 3,551 3,599 3,523 3,461 3,353 Debt under vehicle programs (b) 10,232 9,221 8,878 8,860 8,056 Stockholders equity 414 573 221 439 665 Ratio of debt under vehicle programs to assets under vehicle programs 80 % 78 % 77 % 76 % 73 % __________ (a) The following table reconciles Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA within our Selected Financial Data, which we define as income from continuing operations before non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization, any impairment charges, restructuring and other related charges, early extinguishment of debt costs, non-vehicle related interest, transaction-related costs, net charges for an unprecedented personal-injury legal matters, non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity and income taxes. Net charges for unprecedented personal-injury legal matters are recorded within operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We have revised our definition of Adjusted EBITDA to exclude non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity. Non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity include third-party advisory, legal and other professional service fees and are recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We did not revise prior years Adjusted EBITDA amounts because there were no costs similar in nature to these items. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, for an explanation of why we believe Adjusted EBITDA is a useful measure. For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Net income $ 165 $ 361 $ 163 $ 313 $ 245 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 102 (150 ) 116 69 147 Income before income taxes 267 211 279 382 392 Add: Non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization 256 259 253 218 180 Interest expense related to corporate debt, net 188 188 203 194 209 Restructuring and other related charges 22 63 29 18 26 Transaction-related costs, net 20 23 21 68 13 Early extinguishment of corporate debt 19 3 27 23 56 Non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity 9 Impairment 2 Charges for legal matter, net (14 ) 26 Adjusted EBITDA $ 781 $ 735 $ 838 $ 903 $ 876 (b) Includes related-party debt due to Avis Budget Rental Car Funding (AESOP) LLC (Avis Budget Rental Car Funding). See Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In presenting the financial data above in conformity with GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. See Critical Accounting Policies under Item 7 of this Annual Report for a detailed discussion of the accounting policies that we believe require subjective and complex judgments that could potentially affect reported results. 40 Table of Contents RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER RELATED CHARGES, TRANSACTION-RELATED COSTS, AND OTHER ITEMS In 2018 , 2017 , 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we recorded restructuring and other related charges of $22 million , $63 million , $29 million , $18 million , and $26 million , respectively. See Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2018 , 2017 , 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we recorded $20 million , $23 million , $21 million , $68 million and $13 million , respectively, of transaction-related costs, primarily related to the acquisition and integration of acquired businesses with our operations. In 2018 and 2017, these costs primarily related to integration-related costs of acquired businesses and acquisition-related costs of businesses pursued. In 2016, these costs primarily related to integration-related costs of acquired businesses. In 2015, these costs were primarily related to acquisition- and integration-related costs of acquired businesses, including $25 million of non-cash charges recognized in connection with the acquisition of the Avis and Budget license rights for Norway, Sweden and Denmark and Avis license rights for Poland, costs associated with the acquisition of the remaining 50% equity interest in our Brazilian licensee, which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary, and expenses related to certain pre-acquisition contingencies. In 2014, these costs were primarily related to acquisition- and integration-related costs of acquired businesses, including a non-cash gain recognized in connection with the acquisition of our Budget license rights in southern California and Las Vegas, and contingent consideration related to our Apex Car Rentals acquisition. See Notes 2 and 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2018 , 2017 , 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we recorded $19 million , $3 million , $27 million , $23 million and $56 million , respectively, of expense related to the early extinguishment of corporate debt. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2017, we recorded a $2 million impairment charge related to our Zipcar trademark. In 2017, we recognized recoverable insurance proceeds of $27 million and a charge of $13 million related to an adverse legal judgment against us in a personal injury case. In 2016, we recorded a charge of $26 million related to the same legal matter. This adverse legal judgment is recorded within operating expenses in our consolidated statement of operations. 41 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K commencing on page F-1. Our actual results of operations may differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to those included in Item 1A, Risk Factors and other portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless otherwise noted, all dollar amounts in tables are in millions. OVERVIEW OUR COMPANY We operate three of the most globally recognized brands in mobility solutions, Avis, Budget and Zipcar together with several other brands, well recognized in their respective markets. We are a leading vehicle rental operator in North America, Europe, Australasia and certain other regions we serve, with an average rental fleet of nearly 650,000 vehicles. We also license the use of our trademarks to licensees in the areas in which we do not operate directly. We and our licensees operate our brands in approximately 180 countries throughout the world. OUR SEGMENTS We categorize our operations into two reportable business segments: Americas and International, as discussed in Part I of this Form 10-K. BUSINESS AND TRENDS Our revenues are derived principally from vehicle rentals in our Company-owned operations and include: time & mileage fees charged to our customers for vehicle rentals; sales of loss damage waivers and insurance and other supplemental items in conjunction with vehicle rentals; and payments from our customers with respect to certain operating expenses we incur, including gasoline and vehicle licensing fees, as well as concession fees, which we pay in exchange for the right to operate at airports and other locations. In addition, we receive royalty revenue and associated fees from our licensees in conjunction with their vehicle rental transactions. Our operating results are subject to variability due to seasonality, macroeconomic conditions and other factors. Car rental volumes tend to be associated with the travel industry, particularly airline passenger volumes, or enplanements, which in turn tend to reflect general economic conditions. Our operations are also seasonal, with the third quarter of the year historically having been our strongest due to the increased level of leisure travel during such quarter. We have a partially variable cost structure and routinely adjust the size, and therefore the cost, of our rental fleet in response to fluctuations in demand. Throughout 2018, worldwide demand for mobility solutions increased and used-vehicle values in the United States strengthened counterbalanced by the incremental impact of rising interest rates, higher salaries, wages and related benefits. In 2019, we anticipate that worldwide demand for mobility solutions will increase, most likely against a backdrop of modest and possibly uneven global economic growth. We will aggressively pursue opportunities to enhance our profitability and return on invested capital. Our objective is to drive sustainable profitable growth by delivering on strategic initiatives aimed at winning customers through differentiated brands and products, increasing our margins via revenue growth and operational efficiency and enhancing our leadership in the evolving mobility solutions industry. Our strategies are intended to support and strengthen our brands and to grow our margins and earnings over time, and to achieve growth and efficiency opportunities as mobility solutions continue to evolve. We operate in a highly competitive industry and we expect to continue to face challenges and risks in managing our business. We seek to mitigate our exposure to risks in numerous ways, including delivering upon our core 42 Table of Contents strategic initiatives and through continued optimization of fleet levels to match changes in demand for vehicle rentals, maintenance of liquidity to fund our fleet investment and operations, appropriate investments in technology and adjustments in the size and the nature and terms of our relationships with vehicle manufacturers. During 2018 : Our revenues totaled $9.1 billion , increasing 3% compared to 2017 , due to higher rental volumes. Our net income was $165 million and our Adjusted EBITDA was $781 million driven by higher revenues and Americas lower per-unit fleet costs. We repurchased $ 200 million of our common stock, reducing our shares outstanding by approximately 5.9 million shares, or 7%. We amended the terms of our Floating Rate Term Loan due 2022 and our Senior revolving credit facility maturing 2021 and extended the maturity to 2025 and 2023, respectively. We issued 350 million of 4% euro-denominated Senior Notes due January 2026, the proceeds of which were used to redeem all $400 million of our outstanding 5% Senior Notes due June 2022. We acquired Morini S.p.A in Northern Italy, Turiscar Group in Portugal, various licensees in Europe and North America, and a 40% ownership stake in our licensee in Greece. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We measure performance principally using the following key metrics: (i) rental days, which represent the total number of days (or portion thereof) a vehicle was rented, (ii) revenue per day, which represents revenues divided by rental days, (iii) vehicle utilization, which represents rental days divided by available rental days, available rental days is defined as average rental fleet times the number of days in the period, and (iv) per-unit fleet costs, which represent vehicle depreciation, lease charges and gain or loss on vehicle sales, divided by average rental fleet. Our rental days, revenue per day and vehicle utilization metrics are all calculated based on the actual rental of the vehicle during a 24-hour period. We believe that this methodology provides us with the most relevant metrics in order to manage the business. Our calculation may not be comparable to the calculation of similarly-titled metrics by other companies. We present currency exchange rate effects to provide a method of assessing how our business performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Currency exchange rate effects are calculated by translating the current-year results at the prior-period average exchange rate plus any related gains and losses on currency hedges. We assess performance and allocate resources based upon the separate financial information of our operating segments. In identifying our reportable segments, we also consider the nature of services provided by our operating segments, the geographical areas in which our segments operate and other relevant factors. Management evaluates the operating results of each of our reportable segments based upon revenue and Adjusted EBITDA, which we define as income from continuing operations before non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization, any impairment charges, restructuring and other related charges, early extinguishment of debt costs, non-vehicle related interest, transaction-related costs, net charges for unprecedented personal-injury legal matters, non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity and income taxes. Net charges for unprecedented personal-injury legal matters are recorded within operating expenses in our consolidated results of operations. We have revised our definition of Adjusted EBITDA to exclude non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity. Non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity include third-party advisory, legal and other professional service fees and are recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated results of operations. We did not revise prior years Adjusted EBITDA amounts because there were no costs similar in nature to these costs. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful as a supplemental measure in evaluating the performance of our operating businesses and in comparing our results from period to period. We also believe that Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors because it allows them to assess our results of operations and financial condition on the same basis that management uses internally. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or other income statement data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies. 43 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2018 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2017 Our consolidated results of operations comprised the following: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change Revenues $ 9,124 $ 8,848 $ 276 3 % Expenses Operating 4,639 4,472 (167 ) (4 %) Vehicle depreciation and lease charges, net 2,179 2,221 42 2 % Selling, general and administrative 1,220 1,120 (100 ) (9 %) Vehicle interest, net 314 286 (28 ) (10 %) Non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization 256 259 3 1 % Interest expense related to corporate debt, net: Interest expense 188 188 0 % Early extinguishment of debt 19 3 (16 ) n/m Restructuring and other related charges 22 63 41 65 % Transaction-related costs, net 20 23 3 13 % Impairment 2 2 n/m Total expenses 8,857 8,637 (220 ) (3 %) Income before income taxes 267 211 56 27 % Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 102 (150 ) (252 ) n/m Net income $ 165 $ 361 $ (196 ) (54 %) __________ n/m Not meaningful. Revenues increased during 2018 , compared to 2017 , as a result of 4% higher rental volumes and a $41 million benefit from currency exchange rate movements, partially offset by a 1% reduction in revenue per day excluding exchange rate movements. Total expenses increased as a result of additional rental volumes, higher salaries, wages and related benefits and higher vehicle interest rates, partially offset by lower per-unit fleet costs in the Americas. These increases to expenses include a $27 million negative effect from currency exchange rate movements. Operating expenses increased to 50.8% of revenue during 2018 compared to 50.5% in 2017 . Vehicle depreciation and lease charges decreased to 23.9% of revenue during 2018 compared to 25.1% in 2017 , primarily due to Americas lower per-unit fleet costs. Selling, general and administrative costs increased to 13.4% of revenue during 2018 compared to 12.7% in 2017 , primarily due to higher salary related benefits. Vehicle interest costs were 3.4% of revenue during 2018 compared to 3.2% in 2017 . Our effective tax rates were a provision of 38% and a benefit of 71% in 2018 and 2017, respectively, which in 2018 included additional tax expense of $30 million related to the completion of the accounting for the one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign subsidiary earnings initially recorded during 2017 related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) and in 2017 included a $213 million provisional income tax benefit related to the Tax Act. This net benefit primarily consisted of a benefit of $317 million from the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities as a result of the corporate income tax rate reduction and a provisional expense of $104 million for the one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign subsidiary earnings. For 2018, the Company reported earnings of $2.06 per diluted share, which includes a net tax provision related to the adjustment of the one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign subsidiary earnings of ($0.37) per share and a benefit from the impact of our 2018 share repurchases of $0.05 per share. For 2017, the Company reported earnings of $4.25 per diluted share, which includes a net tax benefit from the impact of the Tax Act of $2.51 per share. 44 Table of Contents Following is a more detailed discussion of the results of each of our reportable segments: 2018 2017 Revenues Adjusted EBITDA Revenues Adjusted EBITDA Americas $ 6,186 $ 558 $ 6,100 $ 486 International 2,938 287 2,748 305 Corporate and Other (a) (64 ) (56 ) Total Company $ 9,124 $ 781 $ 8,848 $ 735 Reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA 2018 2017 Net income $ 165 $ 361 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 102 (150 ) Income before income taxes 267 211 Add: Non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization 256 259 Interest expense related to corporate debt, net: Interest expense 188 188 Early extinguishment of debt 19 3 Restructuring and other related charges (b) 22 63 Transaction-related costs, net (c) 20 23 Non-operational charges related to shareholder activist activity (d) 9 Impairment (e) 2 Charges for legal matter, net (f) (14 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 781 $ 735 __________ (a) Includes unallocated corporate overhead which is not attributable to a particular segment. (b) Other related charges include costs associated with the separation of certain officers of the Company and our limited voluntary opportunity plans. (c) Primarily comprised of acquisition- and integration-related expenses. (d) Reported within selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated results of operations. (e) Impairment charge is related to our Zipcar trademark. (f) Reported within operating expenses in our consolidated results of operations. Americas 2018 2017 % Change Revenues $ 6,186 $ 6,100 1 % Adjusted EBITDA 558 486 15 % Revenues increased 1% during 2018 , compared to 2017 , primarily due to a 1% increase in rental volumes, partially offset by a $10 million negative effect from currency exchange rate movements. Operating expenses increased to 49.7% of revenue during 2018 compared to 49.4% in 2017 . Vehicle depreciation and lease charges decreased to 25.4% of revenue during 2018 compared to 27.4% in 2017 , primarily due to 7% lower per-unit fleet costs. Selling, general and administrative costs increased to 11.9% of revenue during 2018 compared to 11.3% in 2017 , primarily due to higher salary related benefits, partially offset by lower marketing costs. Vehicle interest costs increased to 4.1% of revenue during 2018 compared to 3.7% in 2017 , primarily due to higher interest rates. Adjusted EBITDA increased 15% during 2018 , compared to 2017 , due to higher revenues and lower per-unit fleet costs, partially offset by higher salaries, wages and related benefits, and higher interest rates. Currency movements increased Adjusted EBITDA by $3 million. 45 Table of Contents International 2018 2017 % Change Revenues $ 2,938 $ 2,748 7 % Adjusted EBITDA 287 305 (6 %) Revenues increased 7% during 2018 , compared to 2017 , primarily due to an 8% increase in rental volumes and a $51 million benefit from currency exchange rate movements, partially offset by a 3% reduction in revenue per day excluding exchange rate movements. Operating expenses were 52.8% of revenue during 2018 compared to 52.7% in 2017 . Vehicle depreciation and lease charges increased to 20.8% of revenue during 2018 compared to 20.0% in 2017 , primarily due to lower revenue per day excluding exchange rate movements. Selling, general and administrative costs increased to 14.5% of revenue during 2018 compared to 14.1% in 2017 , primarily due to higher marketing costs. Vehicle interest costs were 2.1% of revenue during 2018 compared to 2.2% in 2017 . Adjusted EBITDA decreased 6% during 2018 , compared to 2017 , due to lower revenue per day excluding exchange rate movements, increased maintenance and damage costs and increased marketing costs, partially offset by increased rental volumes and a $15 million benefit from currency exchange rate movements. Corporate and Other 2018 2017 % Change Revenues $ $ n/m Adjusted EBITDA (64 ) (56 ) n/m __________ n/m Not meaningful. Adjusted EBITDA decreased $8 million during 2018 , compared to 2017 , primarily due to higher selling, general and administrative expenses which are not attributable to a particular segment. Year Ended December 31, 2017 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2016 For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we measured performance principally using the following key metrics: (i) rental days, which represent the total number of days (or portion thereof) a vehicle was rented, (ii) time & mileage revenue per rental day, which represents the average daily revenue we earned from rental time & mileage fees charged to our customers, both of which exclude our U.S. truck rental and Zipcar car sharing operations and (iii) per-unit fleet costs, which represent vehicle depreciation, lease charges and gain or loss on vehicle sales, divided by average rental fleet and exclude our U.S. truck rental operations. We also measure our ancillary revenues (rental-transaction revenue other than time & mileage revenue), such as from the sale of collision and loss damage waivers, insurance products, fuel service options and rental of other supplemental products. Our rental days and time & mileage revenue per rental day vehicle rental metrics are all calculated based on the actual rental of the vehicle during a 24-hour period. We believe that this methodology provides us with the most relevant metrics in order to manage the business. Our calculation may not be comparable to the calculation of similarly-titled metrics by other companies. We present currency exchange rate effects to provide a method of assessing how our business performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Currency exchange rate effects are calculated by translating the current-year results at the prior-period average exchange rate plus any related gains and losses on currency hedges. 46 Table of Contents Our consolidated results of operations comprised the following: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change Revenues Vehicle rental $ 6,219 $ 6,081 $ 138 2 % Other 2,629 2,578 51 2 % Net revenues 8,848 8,659 189 2 % Expenses Operating 4,472 4,382 (90 ) (2 %) Vehicle depreciation and lease charges, net 2,221 2,047 (174 ) (9 %) Selling, general and administrative 1,120 1,134 14 1 % Vehicle interest, net 286 284 (2 ) (1 %) Non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization 259 253 (6 ) (2 %) Interest expense related to corporate debt, net: Interest expense 188 203 15 7 % Early extinguishment of debt 3 27 24 89 % Restructuring and other related charges 63 29 (34 ) n/m Transaction-related costs, net 23 21 (2 ) (10 %) Impairment 2 (2 ) n/m Total expenses 8,637 8,380 (257 ) (3 %) Income before income taxes 211 279 (68 ) (24 %) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (150 ) 116 266 n/m Net income $ 361 $ 163 $ 198 n/m _________ n/m Not meaningful. During 2017, our revenues increased as a result of a 5% increase in rental volumes, partially offset by a 1% decrease in time & mileage revenue per day. Currency exchange rate movements increased revenues by $58 million. Total expenses increased as a result of higher rental volumes, a 4% increase in per-unit fleet costs (including a 1% negative impact from currency exchange rate movements) and increased restructuring and other related charges, partially offset by cost mitigating actions. Currency movements increased expenses by $25 million year-over-year. Operating expenses were 50.5% of revenue during 2017 compared to 50.6% in 2016. Vehicle depreciation and lease charges increased to 25.1% of revenue during 2017 compared to 23.6% in 2016, primarily due to higher per-unit fleet costs and lower time & mileage revenue per day, partially offset by higher utilization. Selling, general and administrative costs decreased to 12.7% of revenue during 2017 compared to 13.1% in 2016, primarily due to cost mitigating actions, partially offset by higher marketing commissions. Vehicle interest costs were 3.2% of revenue during 2017 compared to 3.3% in 2016. Our effective tax rates were a benefit of 71% and a provision of 42% in 2017 and 2016, respectively, which in 2017 included a $213 million provisional income tax benefit related to the impact of the Tax Act. This net benefit primarily consists of a benefit of $317 million from the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities as a result of the corporate income tax rate reduction and a provisional expense of $104 million for the one-time transition tax on cumulative foreign earnings. As a result of these items, our net income increased by $198 million . For 2017, the Company reported earnings of $4.25 per diluted share, which includes after-tax restructuring and other related charges of ($0.48) per share, after-tax transaction-related costs of ($0.23) per share, after-tax debt extinguishment costs of ($0.02) per share, after-tax impairment charge of ($0.01) per share, after-tax reversal of charges for legal matter of $0.10 per share and a net tax benefit from the impact of the Tax Act of $2.51 per share. For 2016, the Company reported earnings of $1.75 per diluted share, which includes after-tax restructuring and 47 Table of Contents other related charges of ($0.23) per share, after-tax debt extinguishment costs of ($0.18) per share, after-tax charges for legal matter of ($0.17) per share and after-tax transaction-related costs, net, of ($0.17) per share. Following is a more detailed discussion of the results of each of our reportable segments: 2017 2016 Revenues Adjusted EBITDA Revenues Adjusted EBITDA Americas $ 6,100 $ 486 $ 6,121 $ 633 International 2,748 305 2,538 273 Corporate and Other (a) (56 ) (68 ) Total Company $ 8,848 $ 735 $ 8,659 $ 838 Reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA 2017 2016 Net income $ 361 $ 163 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (150 ) 116 Income before income taxes 211 279 Add: Non-vehicle related depreciation and amortization 259 253 Interest expense related to corporate debt, net: Interest expense 188 203 Early extinguishment of debt 3 27 Restructuring and other related charges (b) 63 29 Transaction-related costs, net (c) 23 21 Impairment (d) 2 Charges for legal matter, net (e) (14 ) 26 Adjusted EBITDA $ 735 $ 838 __________ (a) Includes unallocated corporate overhead which is not attributable to a particular segment. (b) Other related charges include costs associated with the separation of certain officers of the Company and our limited voluntary opportunity plans. (c) Primarily comprised of acquisition- and integration-related expenses. (d) Impairment charge is related to our Zipcar trademark. (e) Reported within operating expenses in our consolidated results of operations. Americas 2017 2016 % Change Revenues $ 6,100 $ 6,121 % Adjusted EBITDA 486 633 (23 %) Revenues decreased in 2017 compared with 2016 , primarily due to a 1% reduction in time & mileage revenue per day, partially offset by 2% growth in rental volumes. Currency movements increased revenues by $9 million year-over-year. Operating expenses decreased to 49.4% of revenue during 2017 compared to 49.6% in 2016. Vehicle depreciation and lease charges increased to 27.4% of revenue during 2017 compared to 25.5% in 2016 , primarily due to a 6% increase in per-unit fleet costs, partially offset by higher utilization. Selling, general and administrative costs, at 11.3% of revenue during 2017, remained level compared to 2016. Vehicle interest costs, at 3.7% of revenue during 2017, remained level compared to 2016. Adjusted EBITDA decreased 23% in 2017 compared with 2016 , due to higher per-unit fleet costs, lower revenues and higher marketing commissions, partially offset by cost mitigating actions and higher utilization. 48 Table of Contents International 2017 2016 % Change Revenues $ 2,748 $ 2,538 8 % Adjusted EBITDA 305 273 12 % Revenues increased 8% during 2017 compared with 2016 , primarily due to a 12% increase in rental volumes, including a 7% benefit from FranceCars which was acquired in December 2016, partially offset by a 2% reduction in time & mileage revenue per day (including a 1% favorable effect from currency movements). Currency movements increased revenues by $49 million. Operating expenses were 52.7% of revenue during 2017 compared to 52.6% in 2016. Vehicle depreciation and lease charges increased to 20.0% of revenue during 2017 compared to 19.2% in 2016, primarily due to lower time & mileage revenue per day. Selling, general and administrative costs were reduced to 14.1% of revenue during 2017 compared to 15.1% in 2016, primarily due to increased revenues and cost mitigating actions, partially offset by higher marketing commissions. Vehicle interest costs were 2.2% of revenue during 2017 compared to 2.3% in 2016. Adjusted EBITDA increased 12% in 2017 compared with 2016 , due to increased revenues and cost mitigating actions, partially offset by higher marketing commissions. Currency movements increased Adjusted EBITDA by $24 million. Corporate and Other 2017 2016 % Change Revenues $ $ n/m Adjusted EBITDA (56 ) (68 ) n/m __________ n/m Not meaningful Adjusted EBITDA increased $12 million in 2017 compared with 2016, primarily due to lower selling, general and administrative expenses which are not attributable to a particular segment. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We present separately the financial data of our vehicle programs. These programs are distinct from our other activities as the assets under vehicle programs are generally funded through the issuance of debt that is collateralized by such assets. The income generated by these assets is used, in part, to repay the principal and interest associated with the debt. Cash inflows and outflows relating to the generation or acquisition of such assets and the principal debt repayment or financing of such assets are classified as activities of our vehicle programs. We believe it is appropriate to segregate the financial data of our vehicle programs because, ultimately, the source of repayment of such debt is the realization of such assets. FINANCIAL CONDITION As of December 31, 2018 2017 Change Total assets exclusive of assets under vehicle programs $ 6,370 $ 5,820 $ 550 Total liabilities exclusive of liabilities under vehicle programs 6,011 5,935 76 Assets under vehicle programs 12,779 11,879 900 Liabilities under vehicle programs 12,724 11,191 1,533 Stockholders equity 414 573 (159 ) Total assets exclusive of assets under vehicle programs increased compared to 2017 primarily due to an increase in deferred income taxes from the Tax Act and an increase in other current assets (See Note 9 to our 49 Table of Contents Consolidated Financial Statements). Total liabilities exclusive of liabilities under vehicle programs was substantially unchanged compared to 2017. Assets and liabilities under vehicle programs increased compared to 2017 primarily due to an increase in the size of our vehicle rental fleet. The decrease in stockholders equity is primarily due to our repurchases of common stock and the adoption of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), (See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by our net income. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand and our ability to generate cash through operations and financing activities, as well as available funding arrangements and committed credit facilities, each of which is discussed below. During 2018, we amended the terms of our Floating Rate Term Loan due 2022 and our Senior revolving credit facility maturing 2021 and extended the maturity to 2025 and 2023, respectively. In addition, our Avis Budget Rental Car Funding subsidiary issued approximately $400 million and $550 million in asset-backed notes with an expected final payment date of September 2023 and March 2024, respectively, and a weighted average interest rate of 4%. The proceeds from these borrowings were used to fund the repayment of maturing vehicle-backed debt and the acquisition of rental cars in the United States. We also increased our capacity under our European rental fleet securitization program by 150 million (approximately $175 million), the proceeds of which were used to finance fleet purchases for certain of our European operations, and extended its maturity to 2021. We issued 350 million of 4% euro-denominated Senior Notes due January 2026 at par. The proceeds from this borrowing were used to redeem all of our outstanding 5% euro-denominated Senior Notes due June 2022. We repurchased approximately 5.9 million shares of our outstanding common stock for approximately $200 million during 2018. Cash Flows Year Ended December 31, 2018 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2017 The following table summarizes our cash flows: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Change Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 2,609 $ 2,648 $ (39 ) Investing activities (3,426 ) (2,204 ) (1,222 ) Financing activities 667 (308 ) 975 Effects of exchange rate changes (16 ) 45 (61 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents, program and restricted cash (166 ) 181 (347 ) Cash and cash equivalents, program and restricted cash, beginning of period 901 720 181 Cash and cash equivalents, program and restricted cash, end of period $ 735 $ 901 $ (166 ) Cash provided by operating activities during 2018 was substantially unchanged compared with 2017 . The increase in cash used in investing activities during 2018 compared with 2017 is primarily due to increases in investment in vehicles and business acquisition activity. The decrease in cash used in financing activities during 2018 compared with 2017 primarily reflects a decrease in net payments under vehicle programs. We anticipate that our non-vehicle property and equipment additions will be approximately $235 million in 2019 . 50 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2017 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2016 The following table summarizes our cash flows: Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Change Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 2,648 $ 2,640 $ 8 Investing activities (2,204 ) (2,182 ) (22 ) Financing activities (308 ) (449 ) 141 Effects of exchange rate changes 45 (6 ) 51 Net change in cash and cash equivalents, program and restricted cash 181 3 178 Cash and cash equivalents, program and restricted cash, beginning of period 720 717 3 Cash and cash equivalents, program and restricted cash, end of period $ 901 $ 720 $ 181 Cash provided by operating activities during 2017 was substantially unchanged compared with 2016. Cash used in investing activities during 2017 was substantially unchanged compared with 2016. The decrease in cash used in financing activities during 2017 compared with 2016 primarily reflects a decrease in our repurchases of common stock. Debt and Financing Arrangements At December 31, 2018 , we had approximately $13.8 billion of indebtedness (including corporate indebtedness of approximately $3.6 billion and debt under vehicle programs of approximately $10.2 billion ). For detailed information regarding our debt and borrowing arrangements, see Notes 12 and 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. LIQUIDITY RISK Our primary liquidity needs include the procurement of rental vehicles to be used in our operations, servicing of corporate and vehicle-related debt and the payment of operating expenses. The present intention of management is to reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries indefinitely into our foreign operations. Our primary sources of funding are operating revenue, cash received upon the sale of vehicles, borrowings under our vehicle-backed borrowing arrangements and our senior revolving credit facility, and other financing activities. As of December 31, 2018 , we have cash and cash equivalents of $0.6 billion , available borrowing capacity under our committed credit facilities of $0.6 billion , and available capacity under our vehicle programs of approximately $2.8 billion . Our liquidity position could be negatively affected by financial market disruptions or a downturn in the U.S. and worldwide economies, which may result in unfavorable conditions in the mobility industry, in the asset-backed financing market and in the credit markets, generally. We believe these factors have in the past affected and could in the future affect the debt ratings assigned to us by credit rating agencies and the cost of our borrowings. Additionally, a downturn in the worldwide economy or a disruption in the credit markets could impact our liquidity due to (i) decreased demand and pricing for vehicles in the used vehicle market, (ii) increased costs associated with, and/or reduced capacity or increased collateral needs under, our financings, (iii) the adverse impact of vehicle manufacturers being unable or unwilling to honor their obligations to repurchase or guarantee the depreciation on the related program vehicles and (iv) disruption in our ability to obtain financing due to negative credit events specific to us or affecting the overall debt market (see Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion). Our liquidity position could also be negatively impacted if we are unable to remain in compliance with the financial and other covenants associated with our senior revolving credit facility and other borrowings, including a 51 Table of Contents maximum leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2018 , we were in compliance with the financial covenants governing our indebtedness. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our principal future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 : 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter Total Corporate debt $ 23 $ 17 $ 16 $ 16 $ 690 $ 2,834 $ 3,596 Debt under vehicle programs 1,502 3,810 2,486 947 1,086 450 10,281 Debt interest 460 404 287 255 187 162 1,755 Operating leases (a) 835 476 345 253 162 590 2,661 Commitments to purchase vehicles (b) 8,664 3 1 8,668 Defined benefit pension plan contributions (c) 14 14 Other purchase commitments (d) 76 43 38 21 178 Total (e) $ 11,574 $ 4,753 $ 3,173 $ 1,492 $ 2,125 $ 4,036 $ 27,153 __________ (a) Operating lease obligations are presented net of sublease rentals to be received (see Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements) and include commitments to enter into operating leases. (b) Represents commitments to purchase vehicles, the majority of which are from Ford, Fiat Chrysler and General Motors. These commitments are generally subject to the vehicle manufacturers satisfying their obligations under the repurchase and guaranteed depreciation agreements. The purchase of such vehicles is generally financed through borrowings under vehicle programs in addition to cash received upon the sale of vehicles, some of which were purchased under repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs (see Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). (c) Represents the expected contributions to our defined benefit pension plans in 2019. The amount of future contributions to our defined benefit pension plans will depend on the rates of return generated from plan assets and other factors (see Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements) and are not included above. (d) Primarily represents commitments under service contracts for information technology, telecommunications and marketing agreements with travel service companies. (e) Excludes income tax uncertainties of $41 million , $13 million of which is subject to indemnification by Realogy and Wyndham. We are unable to estimate the period in which these income tax uncertainties are expected to be settled. For more information regarding guarantees and indemnifications, see Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Critical Accounting Policies In presenting our financial statements in conformity with GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported therein. Several of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events and/or events that are outside of our control. If there is a significant unfavorable change to current conditions, it could result in a material adverse impact to our consolidated results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We believe that the estimates and assumptions we used when preparing our financial statements were the most appropriate at that time. Presented below are those accounting policies that we believe require subjective and complex judgments that could potentially affect reported results. However, our businesses operate in environments where we are paid a fee for a service performed, and therefore the results of the majority of our recurring operations are recorded in our financial statements using accounting policies that are not particularly subjective, nor complex. Goodwill and Other Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets. We have reviewed the carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. In performing this review, we are required to make an assessment of fair value for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. When determining fair value, we utilize various assumptions, including the fair market trading price of our common stock and managements projections of future cash flows. A change in these underlying assumptions will cause a change in the results of the tests and, as such, could cause the fair value to be less than the respective carrying amount. In such event, we would then be required to record a charge, which would impact earnings. We review the carrying value of 52 Table of Contents goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are allocated among our reporting units. During 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , there was no impairment of goodwill and no material impairment of other intangible assets, see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In the future, failure to achieve our business plans, a significant deterioration of the macroeconomic conditions of the countries in which we operate, or significant changes in the assumptions and estimates that are used in our impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets (such as the discount rate) could result in significantly different estimates of fair value that could trigger an impairment of the goodwill of our reporting units or intangible assets. Vehicles. We present vehicles at cost, net of accumulated depreciation, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We record the initial cost of the vehicle, net of incentives and allowances from manufacturers. We acquire our rental vehicles either through repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs with certain automobile manufacturers or outside of such programs. For rental vehicles purchased under such programs, we depreciate the vehicles such that the net book value on the date of sale or return to the manufacturers is intended to equal the contractual guaranteed residual values. For risk vehicles, acquired outside of manufacturer repurchase and guaranteed depreciation programs, we depreciate based on the vehicles estimated residual market values at their expected dates of disposition. The estimation of residual values requires the Company to make assumptions regarding the age and mileage of the vehicle at the time of disposal, as well as expected used vehicle market conditions. The Company regularly evaluates estimated residual values and adjusts depreciation rates as appropriate. Differences between actual residual values and those estimated result in a gain or loss on disposal and are recorded as part of vehicle depreciation and lease charges, net, at the time of sale. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes. We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in the financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Tax Act enacted in the fourth quarter of 2017 included a change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. For more information regarding the accounting for the effects of the Tax Act, see Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We record net deferred tax assets to the extent we believe these assets will more likely than not be realized. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent results of operations. In the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize deferred income tax assets in the future in excess of their net recorded amount, we would make an adjustment to the valuation allowance which would reduce the provision for income taxes. Currently we do not record valuation allowances on the majority of our tax loss carryforwards as there are adequate deferred tax liabilities that could be realized within the carryforward period. See Notes 2 and 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding income taxes. Public Liability, Property Damage and Other Insurance Liabilities. Insurance liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets include supplemental liability insurance, personal effects protection insurance, public liability, property damage and personal accident insurance claims for which we are self-insured. We estimate the required liability of such claims on an undiscounted basis utilizing an actuarial method that is based upon various assumptions which include, but are not limited to, our historical loss experience and projected loss development factors. The required liability is also subject to adjustment in the future based upon changes in claims experience, including changes in the number of incidents for which we are ultimately liable and changes in the cost per incident. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements For a description of our adoption of new accounting pronouncements and the impact thereof on our business, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 53 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the impact thereof on our business, see Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.