Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations or in other filings by Chegg with the SEC, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that are not currently believed by us to be material may also harm our business operations and financial results. Because of the following risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and results of operations, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 9 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our limited operating history and evolving digital offerings make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. Although we began our operations in July 2005, we did not launch our online print textbook rental business until 2007 or begin generating revenues at scale from print textbook rentals until 2010. We completed a transition to a new model for our Required Materials product line in November 2016 through our strategic partnership with Ingram to accelerate our transition away from the more capital-intensive aspects of the print textbook rental business. We continue to market, use our branding, and maintain the customer experience around print textbook rentals, while through the end of 2019, Ingram or other partners fund all rental textbook inventory and have title and risk of loss related to textbook rentals for the textbooks they own. Beginning in 2020, we will begin transitioning our textbook rental business whereby we will resume owning textbooks, but will work with FedEx as our vendor for warehousing and fulfillment services. Since July 2010, we have focused on expanding our offerings, in many instances through the acquisition of other companies, to include supplemental materials, Chegg Study, Chegg Writing, Chegg Tutors, Chegg Math Solver, and Thinkful . For example, in October 2019, we acquired Thinkful to provide a skills-based learning platform that offers professional courses in software engineering, data science, data analytics, product design, and product management directly to students across the United States . In June 2018, we launched the Chegg Math Solver to help students with their algebra, pre-calculus, and calculus math problems. Our newer products and services, or any other products and services we may introduce or acquire, may not be integrated effectively into our business, achieve or sustain profitability, or achieve market acceptance at levels sufficient to justify our investment. Our ability to fully integrate new products and services into our learning platform or achieve satisfactory financial results from them is unproven. Because we have a limited operating history, in particular operating a fully digital platform, and the market for our products and services, including newly acquired or developed products and services, is rapidly evolving, it is difficult for us to predict our results of operations, particularly with respect to our newer offerings, and the ultimate size of the market for our products and services. If the market for a learning platform does not develop as we expect, or if we fail to address the needs of this market, our business will be harmed. We face risks, expenses, and difficulties related to our specific business model, as well as those typically encountered by companies in their early stage of development, including, but not limited to our ability to successfully: execute on our evolving business model, including our transition back to the ownership of print textbooks; transition fulfillment logistics from Ingram to FedEx; develop new products and services, both independently and with developers or other third parties; acquire complementary products and services to expand our offerings and enhance our learning platform; attract and retain students and increase their engagement with our learning platform; prevent students from stealing accounts, sharing accounts, and cheating with other students; manage the growth of our business, including increasing or unforeseen expenses; develop and scale a high-performance technology infrastructure to efficiently handle increased usage by students, especially during peak periods prior to each academic term; maintain and manage relationships with strategic partners, including distributors, publishers, wholesalers, colleges, and brands; ensure our platform remains secure and protects the information of students, tutors and other users; attract and retain brands to our marketing services; develop and pursue a profitable business model and pricing strategy; compete with companies that offer similar services or products; expand into adjacent markets; enter into a highly regulated skills-based business; navigate the ongoing evolution and uncertain application of regulatory requirements, such as privacy laws, to our business, including our new products and services; integrate and realize synergies from businesses that we acquire; and expand, operate, and compete in international markets. We have encountered and will continue to encounter these risks and if we do not manage them successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our results of operations are expected to be difficult to predict based on a number of factors. We expect our results of operations to fluctuate in the future based on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control and difficult to predict. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be a good indicator of our future or long-term performance. The following factors may affect us from period-to-period and may affect our long-term performance: our ability to attract and retain students and increase their engagement with our learning platform, particularly related to our Chegg Services subscribers; changes to Internet search engines and application marketplaces that drive traffic to our platform; the rate of adoption of our offerings; our ability to successfully utilize the information gathered from our learning platform to enhance our Student Graph and target sales of complementary products and services to our students; changes in demand and pricing for print textbooks and eTextbooks; the ability of our logistics partners to manage fulfillment processes, including significant volume increases during peak periods and as a result of the potential growth in volume of transactions over time; our transition from Ingram to FedEx for print textbook fulfillment; our ability to integrate the Chegg and Thinkful businesses; changes by our competitors to their product and service offerings; price competition and our ability to react appropriately to such competition; our ability and Ingram's ability to manage Ingram's textbook library and, commencing in 2020, our ability and FedEx's ability to manage our textbook library; our ability to execute on our strategic partnerships with our logistics partners; disruptions to our internal computer systems and our fulfillment information technology infrastructure, particularly during peak periods; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations, and infrastructure; our ability to successfully manage the integration of operations, technology and personnel resulting from our acquisitions; government regulations, in particular regarding privacy and advertising and taxation policies; and general macroeconomic conditions and economic conditions specific to higher education. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have experienced significant net losses since our incorporation in July 2005, and we may continue to experience net losses in the future. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 were $9.6 million , $14.9 million , and $20.3 million , respectively. As of December 31, 2019 , we had an accumulated deficit of $416.3 million . We expect to make significant investments in the development and expansion of our business and our cost of revenues and operating expenses may increase. We may not succeed in increasing our revenues sufficiently to offset these higher expenses, and our efforts to grow the business may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including slowing demand for our products and services; increasing competition, particularly for the price of textbooks; decreased spending on education; and other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K . We may encounter unforeseen expenses, challenges, complications, and delays and other unknown factors as we pursue our business plan and our business model continues to evolve. While Chegg Services revenues have grown in recent periods, this growth may not be sustainable and we may not be able to achieve profitability. To achieve profitability, we may need to change our operating infrastructure and scale our operations more efficiently. We also may need to reduce our costs or implement changes in our product offerings to improve the predictability of our revenues. If we fail to implement these changes on a timely basis or are unable to implement them due to factors beyond our control, our business may suffer. If we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase such profitability. 11 Table of Contents If our efforts to attract new students to use our products and services and increase student engagement with our learning platform are not successful, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our future revenues depend on our ability to attract new students, requiring us to invest continuously in marketing to the student population to build brand awareness and loyalty, which we may not be able to accomplish cost-effectively or at all. The growth of our business depends on our ability to attract new students to use our products and services and to increase the level of engagement by existing students with our learning platform. The substantial majority of our revenues depends on small transactions made by a widely dispersed student population with an inherently high rate of turnover primarily as a result of graduation. Many of the students we desire to attract are accustomed to obtaining textbooks through bookstores or used booksellers. The rate at which we expand our student user base and increase student engagement with our learning platform may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including: our ability to engage high school students with our Chegg Writing, Chegg Tutors, Chegg Math Solver, Chegg Prep (formerly Chegg Flashcards), and College Admissions and Scholarship Services; our ability to produce compelling supplemental materials and services for students to improve their outcomes throughout their educational journey; our ability to produce engaging mobile applications and websites for students to engage with our learning platform; our ability and our fulfillment partner's ability to consistently provide students with a convenient, high quality experience for selecting, receiving, and returning print textbooks; our ability to accurately forecast and respond to student demand for print textbooks; the pricing of our physical textbooks and eTextbooks for rental or sale in relation to other alternatives, including the prices offered by publishers or by other competing textbook rental providers; the quality and prices of our offerings compared to those of our competitors; the rate of adoption of eTextbooks and our ability to capture a significant share of that market; changes in student spending levels; changes in the number of students attending college; the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, including our success in generating word-of-mouth referrals; and our ability to introduce new products and services that are favorably received by students. If we do not attract more students to our learning platform and the products and services that we offer or if students do not increase their level of engagement with our platform, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected or decline. The student demographic is characterized by rapidly changing tastes, preferences, behavior, and brand loyalty. Developing an enduring business model to serve this population is particularly challenging. Our ability to attract new students depends not only on investment in our brand and our marketing efforts, but also on the perceived value of our products and services versus competing alternatives among our extremely price conscious student user base. If our efforts to satisfy our existing student user base are not successful or become less effective, or if the cost of such efforts were to significantly increase, we may not be able to attract new students as successfully or efficiently and, as a result, our business, results of operations, and financial condition will be adversely affected. Additionally, even if we succeed in establishing brand awareness and loyalty, we may be unable to maintain and grow our student user base if we are unable to offer competitive prices for our products and services or unable to adequately prevent unauthorized account sharing of our subscription program services. If we fail to expand our user base, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. Any significant disruption, including those related to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, to our computer systems, especially during peak periods, could result in a loss of students and/or brands which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely on computer systems housed in six facilities, three located on the East Coast and three located on the West Coast, to manage our operations. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience periodic service interruptions and delays involving our systems. While we maintain a fail-over capability that would allow us to switch our operations from one facility to another in the event of a service outage, that process would still result in service interruptions that could be significant in duration. These service interruptions could have a disproportionate effect on our operations if they were to occur during one of our peak periods. Our facilities are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. 12 Table of Contents Our facilities and information systems, as well as those of our third-party service providers, also are subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, cybersecurity risks including cyber-attacks such as computer viruses and denial of service attacks, the failure of physical, administrative, and technical security measures, terrorist acts, natural disasters, human error, the financial insolvency of our third-party vendors, and other unanticipated problems or events. These information systems have periodically experienced and will continue to experience both directed attacks as well as loss of, misuse of, or theft of data. While we have implemented physical, technical, and administrative safeguards designed to help protect our systems, in the event of a system interruption or a security exposure or breach, they may not be as effective as intended and we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for related losses. To date, unauthorized users have not had a material effect on our company; however, there can be no assurance that attacks will not be successful in the future or that any loss will not be material. In addition, our information systems must be constantly updated, patched, and upgraded to optimize performance and protect against known vulnerabilities, material disruptions, or slowdown. We also rely on Internet systems and infrastructure to operate our business. The information systems used by our third-party service providers and the Internet generally are vulnerable to these risks as well. In particular, we rely heavily on SaaS enterprise resource planning systems to conduct our e-commerce and financial transactions and reporting. In addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. Problems faced by us or our third-party hosting and cloud-computing providers, or interruptions in our own systems or in the infrastructure of the Internet, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could hinder our ability to operate our business, damage our reputation or brand and result in a loss of students or brands which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If Internet search engines methodologies are modified or our search result page rankings decline for other reasons, student engagement with our website could decline, which may harm our business and results of operations. We depend in part on various Internet search engines, such as Google, Bing, and Yahoo!, to direct a significant amount of traffic to our website. Similarly, we depend on mobile app stores such as iTunes and Google Play to allow students to locate and download Chegg mobile applications that enable our services. Our ability to maintain the number of students directed to our website is not entirely within our control. Our competitors search engine optimization (SEO) efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, or Internet search engines could revise their methodologies in an attempt to improve their search results, which could adversely affect the placement of our search result page ranking. If search engine companies modify their search algorithms in ways that are detrimental to our search result page ranking or in ways that make it harder for students to find our website, or if our competitors SEO efforts are more successful than ours, overall growth could slow, student engagement could decrease, and fewer students may use our platform. These modifications may be prompted by search engine companies entering the online networking market or aligning with competitors. Our website has experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Any reduction in the number of students directed to our website could harm our business and results of operations. Increased activity during peak periods places substantially increased strain on our operations and any failure to deliver our products and services during these periods will have an adverse effect on student satisfaction and our results of operations. We historically experience a disproportionate amount of activity on our website at the beginning of each academic term as students search our textbook catalog and place orders for course materials as well as during Sundays of our Chegg Study rush. If too many students access our website within a short period of time, we may experience system interruptions that make our website unavailable, slowed, or prevent our distribution partner from efficiently fulfilling rental orders, which may reduce the volume of textbooks we are able to rent or sell and may also impact our ability to sell marketing services to brands. In addition, during peak periods, we and our distribution partners utilize independent contractors and temporary personnel to supplement our workforces primarily in our student advocacy organizations, our subject matter experts, and in our distribution partners' warehouses. Competition for qualified personnel has historically been intense, any understaffing could lead to an increase in the amount of time required to ship textbooks and process returns or respond to student questions and inquiries. Moreover, the third-party carriers relied on to deliver textbooks to students, and publishers, wholesalers and distributors that ship directly to our students, may be unable to meet our shipping and delivery requirements during peak periods, especially during inclement weather. Any delay or failure to deliver our products and services or respond to student questions could cause our customers to be dissatisfied with our services and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If our efforts to build strong brands are not successful, we may not be able to grow our student user base, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We believe our brands are a key asset of our business. Developing, protecting and enhancing the Chegg brands are critical to our ability to expand our student user base and increase student engagement with our learning platform. Strong 13 Table of Contents brands also help to counteract the significant student turnover we experience from year to year as students graduate and differentiate us from our competitors. To succeed in our efforts to strengthen our brands' identity, we must, among other activities: maintain our reputation as a trusted technology platform and source of content, services, and textbooks for students; maintain the quality of and improve our existing products, services and, technologies; introduce products and services that are favorably received; adapt to changing technologies, including developing and enhancing compelling mobile offerings for our learning platform; adapt to students rapidly changing tastes, preferences, behavior, and brand loyalties; protect students, tutors', and educators' data, such as passwords and personally identifiable information; protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights; maintain and control the quality of our brand; continue to expand our reach to students in high school, graduate school, and internationally; ensure that the content posted to our website by students is reliable and does not infringe on third-party copyrights or violate other applicable laws, our terms of use, or the ethical codes of those students colleges; adequately address students concerns with our products and services; and convert and fully integrate the brands and students that we acquire, including Thinkful, WriteLab, StudyBlue, Cogeon, the developer of the math application Math 42, Imagine Easy Solutions and internships.com, into the Chegg brand and Chegg.com. Our ability to successfully achieve these goals is not entirely within our control and we may not be able to maintain the strength of our brands or do so cost-effectively. Factors that could negatively affect our brands include: changes in student sentiment about the quality or usefulness of our learning platform and our products and services; problems that prevent our logistics partners from delivering textbooks reliably or timely; technical or other problems that prevent us from providing our products and services reliably or otherwise negatively affect the student experience on our learning platform; concern from colleges about the ways students use our content offerings, such as our Expert Answers service; brand conflict between acquired brands and the Chegg brand; student concerns related to privacy and the way in which we use student data as part of our products and services; the reputation or products and services of competitive companies; and students misuse of our products and services in ways that violate our terms of services, applicable laws, or the code of conduct at their colleges. We intend to offer new products and services to students and expand into international markets to grow our business. If our efforts are not successful or we are not able to manage the growth of our business both in terms of scale and complexity, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our ability to attract and retain students and increase their engagement with our learning platform depends on our ability to connect them with the product, person, or service they need to save time, save money, and get smarter. Part of our strategy is to offer students new products and services in an increasingly relevant and personalized way. We may develop such products and services independently, by acquisition or in conjunction with developers and other third parties. For example, in 2016, we acquired our Writing Tools service in the acquisition of Imagine Easy Solutions; in October 2017, we acquired Math 42, in the acquisition of Cogeon GmbH (Cogeon); in June 2018, we acquired flash tools in the acquisition of StudyBlue, Inc.; and in October 2019, we acquired the skills-based learning platform of Thinkful, Inc. The markets for these new products and services may be unproven, and these products may include technologies and business models with which we have little or no prior development or operating experience or may significantly change our existing products and services. In addition, we may be unable to obtain long-term licenses from third-party content providers and/or government regulatory approvals and licenses necessary to allow a product or service, including a new or planned product or service, to function. If our new or enhanced products and services fail to engage our students or attract new students, or if we are unable to obtain content from third parties that students want, we may fail to grow our student base or generate sufficient revenues, operating margin, or other value to justify our investments, and our business would be adversely affected. In the future, we may invest in new products and services and other initiatives to generate revenues and grow our student user base and to take advantage of favorable market opportunities, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be 14 Table of Contents successful. As we grow, the operations and technology infrastructure we use to manage and account for our operations will become more complex, and managing these aspects of our business will become more challenging. Acquisitions of new companies, products, and services create integration risk, while developing and enhancing products and services involves significant time, labor, and expense as well as other challenges, including managing the length of the development cycle, entry into new markets, regulatory compliance, evolution in sales and marketing methods, and maintenance and protection of proprietary rights. Any future expansion will likely place significant demand on our resources, capabilities and systems, and we may need to develop new processes and procedures and expand the size of our infrastructure to respond to these demands. If we are not successful with our new products and services or are not able to manage the growth of our business, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues as anticipated or recover any associated acquisition or development costs, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. As part of our business strategy, we may make our products and services available in more countries outside of our primary market, the United States. We expect to devote significant resources to international expansion, and our ability to expand our business and to attract talented employees and users in international markets will require management attention and resources. Our international expansion may subject us to risks that we have not faced before or increase risks that we currently face. The markets in which we may undertake international expansion may have educational systems, technology, and online industries that are different or less well developed than those in the United States, and if we are unable to address the challenges of operating in international markets, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to gain market acceptance in any particular market is uncertain and the distraction of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, which could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we have made and intend to make acquisitions to add specialized employees, complementary businesses, products, services, operations, or technologies. Realizing the benefits of acquisitions depends, in part, on our successful integration of acquired companies including their technologies, products, services, operations, and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. We may incur significant costs integrating acquired companies and if our integration efforts are not successful, we may not be able to offset our acquisition costs. Acquisitions involve many risks that may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including the risks that the acquisitions may: require us to incur charges and substantial debt or liabilities; cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, or deferred compensation charges; result in acquired in-process research and development expenses or in the future may require the amortization, write-down, or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill, and other intangible assets; and give rise to various litigation and regulatory risks, including the increased likelihood of litigation. In addition: we may not generate sufficient financial return to offset acquisition costs; we may encounter difficulties or unforeseen expenditures in integrating the business, technologies, products, services, operations, and personnel of any company that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us; an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses, and distract our management; an acquisition may delay adoption rates or reduce engagement rates for our products and services and those of the company acquired by us due to student uncertainty about continuity and effectiveness of service from either company; we may encounter difficulties in, or may be unable to, successfully sell or otherwise monetize any acquired products and services; an acquisition may not ultimately be complementary to our evolving business model; and an acquisition may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. Acquired companies, businesses, and assets can be complex and time consuming to integrate. For example, we expanded into writing tools with the acquisitions of Imagine Easy Solutions in 2016 and WriteLab in 2018, math technology with the acquisition of Cogeon in 2017, flash tools with the acquisition of StudyBlue in 2018, and a new offering in skills-based 15 Table of Contents learning with the acquisition of Thinkful in 2019. We may not successfully transition these users to the Chegg platform and therefore may not realize the potential benefits of these acquisitions. Our ability to acquire and integrate larger or more complex businesses, products, services, operations, or technologies in a successful manner is unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. To finance any future acquisitions, we may issue equity or equity-linked securities, which could be dilutive, or debt, which could be costly, potentially dilutive, and require substantial restrictions on the conduct of our business. If we fail to successfully complete any acquisitions, integrate the services, products, personnel, operations, or technologies associated with such acquisitions into our company, or identify and address liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Any future acquisitions we complete may not achieve our goals. We operate in a rapidly changing market and if we do not successfully adapt to known or unforeseen market developments, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We have added and plan to continue to add new offerings to our learning platform, including, for example, skills-based learning , writing and math tools, to diversify our sources of revenues, which require us to make substantial investments in the products and services we develop or acquire. New offerings may not achieve market success at levels that recover our investments or contribute to profitability. Because these offerings are not as capital intensive as our print textbook rental service, the barriers to entry for existing and future competitors may be lower and allow for even more rapid changes to the market. Furthermore, the market for these other products and services is relatively new and may not develop as we expect. If the market for our offerings does not develop as we expect, or if we fail to address the needs of this market, our business may be harmed. We may not be successful in executing on our evolving business model, and if we cannot provide an increasing number of products and services that students and brands find compelling, we will not be able to continue our recent growth, increase our revenues, or achieve and sustain profitability. For all of these reasons, the evolution of our business model is ongoing and the future revenues and profitability potential of our offerings is uncertain. We purchase and price textbooks based on anticipated levels of demand and other factors that we estimate based on historical experience and various other assumptions. If actual results differ materially from our estimates, our gross margins may decline. Commencing in 2020, we will begin investing in our print textbook library and transitioning to FedEx for fulfillment services. Our print textbook rental distribution model requires us to make substantial investments in our textbook library based on our expectations regarding numerous factors, including ongoing demand for these titles in print form. To realize a return on these investments, we must rent each purchased textbook multiple times, and as such, we are exposed to the risk of carrying excess or obsolete textbooks. We typically plan our textbook purchases based on factors such as pricing, our demand forecast for the most popular titles, estimated timing of edition changes, estimated utilization levels and planned liquidations of stale, old or excess titles in our textbook library. These factors are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially, especially if pricing competition becomes more intense, as we have seen in recent rush cycles, or demand is reduced due to seasonality or other factors, including increased use of eTextbooks. We rely on a proprietary model to analyze and optimize our purchasing decisions and rely on inputs from third parties including publishers, distributors, wholesalers and colleges to make our decisions. We also rely on students to return print textbooks to us in a timely manner and in good condition so that we can re-rent or sell those textbooks. If the information we receive from third parties is not accurate or reliable, if students fail to return books to us or return damaged books to us, or if we for any other reason anticipate inaccurately and acquire insufficient copies of specific textbooks, we may be unable to satisfy student demand or we may have to incur significantly increased cost in order to do so. Conversely, if we attempt to mitigate this risk and acquire more copies than needed to satisfy student demand, then our textbook utilization rates would decline and our gross margins would be adversely affected. When deciding whether to offer a textbook for rent and the price we charge for that rental, we must weigh a variety of factors and assumptions, including the expense to acquire a particular textbook, the number of rentals we will be able to achieve with each textbook and at what rental price, and whether we believe it will be profitable to acquire and rent such textbooks. If the textbooks we acquire are lost, determined to be unauthorized copies, or damaged prematurely, we may not be able to recover our costs or generate revenue on those textbooks. If we are unable to effectively make decisions about whether to acquire textbooks and the price we charge to rent those textbooks, including if the assumptions upon which our decisions are made prove to be inaccurate, our gross margins may be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Wind-down and reconciliation activities associated with ending our relationship with Ingram may not proceed as planned, may require a long time to complete, or may require us to incur greater costs than anticipated. Our strategic partnership with Ingram expires in 2020, after which logistics and shipping services will be provided by FedEx. As part of this transition, Ingram business activities related to our print textbook offering will decrease over time while FedExs business activities will ramp up. If we experience unexpected challenges during this coordinated transition of our print textbook offering from Ingram to FedEx, if the transition takes a longer time to complete than expected, or if we fail to accurately forecast the transition costs, our business and results of operations will be impacted. Further, during this transition, customers may experience longer shipping periods than they have come to expect or the order accuracy may decline, causing increased calls to our customer service team, the need to expedite corrected orders, and the potential loss of customers. Additionally, we are currently engaged in a reconciliation process with Ingram to address open claims between the companies. If we and Ingram are unable to reach agreement on those claims, we may be required to resort to mediation or litigation for resolution. Delays in shipping, increased costs, and other difficulties that could arise with our distribution partners may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our strategic partnership with Ingram expires in 2020. Until the termination of our partnership, we will continue to rely on Ingram to fulfill print textbook rental and sales orders. If our partnership with Ingram is interrupted prior to its expiration or if Ingram experiences disruptions in its business or is not able to perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, an inability to fulfill print textbook orders, increased costs and a loss of business, that may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, if we are unable to achieve the financial return targets set forth in our agreement with Ingram, we could be required to make additional payments to Ingram which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to our strategic partnership with Ingram, we have entered into agreements with other partners to provide their textbooks for rental or sale through our website for which Ingram provides logistics and fulfillment for all print textbook rental or sale orders. If we are unable to enter into or renew our agreements with our partners or if any of our partners perform significantly below our expectations, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Commencing in 2020, we will begin transitioning fulfillment services from Ingram to FedEx. In the case of either Ingram or FedEx, we do not control the logistics and distribution process for our print textbooks. As a result, our business could be subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including labor difficulties, inclement weather, increased fuel costs and other rising costs of transportation and terrorist activity. If our distribution partners, or their partners such as delivery companies, were to limit their services or delivery areas, such as by the discontinuation of Saturday delivery service, or otherwise suffer from business disruptions, we may be required to rely on alternative carriers for delivery and return shipments of textbooks to and from students or we may be unable to deliver textbooks. If we are unable to sufficiently engage alternative carriers on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, our ability to timely deliver textbooks could diminish. If textbooks are not delivered on time to students, they could become dissatisfied and discontinue their use of our service, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on third-party software and service providers, including Amazon Web Services (AWS), to provide systems, storage, and services for our website. Any failure or interruption experienced by such third parties could result in the inability of students to use our products and services, result in a loss of revenues, and harm our reputation. We rely on third-party software and service providers, including AWS, to provide systems, storage, and services, including user log in authentication, for our website. Any technical problem with, cyber-attack on, or loss of access to such third parties systems, servers, or technologies could result in the inability of our students to rent or purchase print textbooks, interfere with access to our digital content and other online products and services or result in the theft of end-user personal information. Our reliance on AWS makes us vulnerable to any errors, interruptions, or delays in their operations. Any disruption in the services provided by AWS could harm our reputation or brand or cause us to lose students or revenues or incur substantial recovery costs and distract management from operating our business. AWS may terminate its agreement with us upon 30 days' notice. Upon expiration or termination of our agreement with AWS, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, that are favorable to us, and a transition from one vendor to another vendor could subject us to operational delays and inefficiencies until the transition is complete. 17 Table of Contents Computer malware, viruses, hacking, phishing attacks, and spamming could harm our business and results of operations. Computer malware, viruses, hacking, physical or electronic break-ins, spamming, and similar events could lead to disruptions of our website services, our mobile applications, or systems we use and interruptions and delays in our services and operations, as well as loss, misuse, or theft of data. Any such events could harm our business, be expensive to remedy, and damage our reputation or brand. Computer malware, viruses, computer hacking, and phishing attacks against online networking platforms have become more prevalent and may occur on systems we use in the future. We believe that the incidence of hacking among students may increase our risk of being a target for such attacks. These threats are constantly evolving, making it increasingly difficult to successfully defend against them or implement adequate preventative measures. For instance, in April 2018, an unauthorized party gained access to user data for chegg.com and certain of our family of brands such as EasyBib (the 2018 Data Incident). The information that may have been obtained could include a Chegg users name, email address, shipping address, Chegg username, and hashed Chegg password. To date, no social security numbers or financial information such as users' credit card numbers or bank account information were obtained. Additionally, Thinkful, prior to our acquisition of it, discovered an unauthorized party may have gained access to certain Thinkful company credentials (the Thinkful Data Incident). If we, or companies that we acquire, experience compromises to our or our acquired companies security that result in website performance or availability problems, the complete shutdown of our websites, or the actual or perceived loss or unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information, such as credit card information, users may be harmed or lose trust and confidence in us and the companies that we acquire, and decrease the use of our services or stop using our services in their entirety, and we would suffer reputational and financial harm. As part of our regular cybersecurity efforts, including enhancements to these efforts made following our discovery of these prior events, we have implemented physical, technical, and administrative safeguards designed to help protect our systems. However, these safeguards may not be as effective as intended, and may not prevent future cybersecurity breaches. Efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement, may limit the functionality of our services, we may need to expend significant additional resources to further enhance our safeguards and protection against security breaches or to redress problems caused by breaches and such efforts may not be fully effective. Additionally, our network security business disruption insurance may not be sufficient to cover significant expenses and losses related to direct attacks on our website or systems we use. Though it is difficult to determine what, if any, harm may directly result from any specific interruption or attack, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security, and availability of our products and services and technical infrastructure, or the actual or perceived loss or unauthorized disclosure or use of the data we collect and develop may lead our users to lose trust and confidence in us or otherwise harm our reputation, brand, and our ability to attract students to our website or may lead them to decrease the use of our services or applications or stop using our services in their entirety. Any significant disruption to our website or computer systems we use could result in a loss of students or advertisers and, particularly if disruptions occur during the peak periods at the beginning of each academic term, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If our security measures or those of companies we may acquire are breached or are perceived to have been breached, as a result of third party action, including cyberattacks or other intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, or if third parties obtain unauthorized access to our data, including sensitive customer data, personal information, intellectual property and other confidential business information, we could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to address the problem as well incur significant costs and liabilities including due to litigation, indemnity obligations, damages, penalties, and costs for remediation. Our reputation and relationships with students, tutors and educators would be harmed if our users data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. We maintain personal data regarding students, tutors, and educators who use our platform through our Thinkful service, including names and, in many cases, mailing addresses, and, in the case of tutors and educators, information necessary for payment and tax filings. We take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our users data. However, despite these measures, if we or our payment processing services experience any unauthorized intrusion into our users data, current and potential users may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to engage with our platform, we could face legal claims and our business and reputation could be adversely affected. For instance, the 2018 Data Incident and the Thinkful Data Incident may cause, or may have caused, us reputational harm with our users' that may adversely affect our business. The breach of a third partys website, resulting in theft of user names and passwords, could result in the fraudulent use of that user login information on our platform. 18 Table of Contents We rely heavily on our proprietary technology to process deliveries and returns of textbooks and to manage other aspects of our operations. The failure of this technology to operate effectively, particularly during peak periods, could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract student users. We use complex proprietary software to process deliveries and returns of textbooks and to manage other aspects of our operations, including systems to consider the market price for textbooks, general availability of textbook titles, and other factors to determine how to buy textbooks and set prices for textbooks and other content in real time. We rely on the expertise of our engineering and software development teams to maintain and enhance the software used for our distribution operations. We cannot be sure that the maintenance and enhancements we make to our distribution operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to students. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the shipping and return of textbooks in a timely and efficient manner, particularly during peak periods, our ability to retain existing students and to add new students may be impaired. We may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and network infrastructure to ensure that our learning platform is accessible and delivers a satisfactory user experience to students. It is important to our success that students be able to access our learning platform at all times. We have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, third-party service providers, human or software errors, and capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of students accessing our platform simultaneously. If our learning platform is unavailable when students attempt to access it or it does not load as quickly as they expect, students may seek other services to obtain the information for which they are looking and may not return to our platform as often in the future, or at all. This would negatively impact our ability to attract students and brands and the frequency with which they use our website and mobile applications. Our platform functions on software that is highly technical and complex and may now or in the future contain undetected errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the code has been deployed. Any errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after deployment, inability to identify the cause or causes of performance problems within an acceptable period of time, or difficultly maintaining and improving the performance of our platform, particularly during peak usage times, could result in damage to our reputation or brand, loss of students, and brands, loss of revenues, or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the availability of our platform and to enable rapid releases of new features and products. To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed, and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and results of operations may be harmed. We have a disaster recovery program to transition our operating platform and data to a failover location in the event of a catastrophe and have tested this capability under controlled circumstances, however, there are several factors ranging from human error to data corruption that could materially lengthen the time our platform is partially or fully unavailable to our student user base as a result of the transition. If our platform is unavailable for a significant period of time as a result of such a transition, especially during peak periods, we could suffer damage to our reputation or brand, loss of students and brands, or loss of revenues, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our wide variety of accepted payment methods subjects us to third-party payment processing-related risks. We accept payments from students using a variety of methods, including credit cards, debit cards, and PayPal. As we offer new payment options to students, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and incidents of fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. For example, we have in the past experienced higher transaction fees from our third-party processors as a result of chargebacks on credit card transactions. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing and information storage of credit cards and debit cards. If these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, our business could be disrupted. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to additional fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our students, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents In addition, we do not obtain signatures from students in connection with the use of credit cards by them. Under current credit card practices, to the extent we do not obtain cardholders signatures, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. From time to time, fraudulent credit cards may be used. We may experience some loss from these fraudulent transactions. While we do have safeguards in place, we cannot be certain that other fraudulent schemes will not be successful. A failure to adequately control fraudulent transactions would harm our business and results of operations. We face competition in aspects of our business, and we expect such competition to increase. Our products and services compete for students and we expect such competition to increase . Our Chegg Services face competition from different businesses depending on the offering. For Chegg Study, our competitors primarily include platforms that provide study materials and online instructional systems such as Course Hero, Quizlet, Khan Academy, and Bartleby. For Chegg Writing, we primarily face competition from other citation generating and grammar and plagiarism services such as Grammarly. For Chegg Tutors, we face competition from other online tutoring services such as Wyzant. For Chegg Math Solver, we face competition from other equation solver services such as Mathway and Symbolab. For Thinkful, we face competition from other online learning platforms and online "bootcamp" courses such as General Assembly, Galvanize, Flatiron School, and Lambda School. Additionally, the market for textbooks and supplemental materials is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. We face competition from college bookstores, some of which are operated by Follett and Barnes & Noble Education, online marketplaces such as Amazon.com, providers of eTextbooks, as well as various private textbook rental websites. Many students purchase from multiple textbook providers, are highly price sensitive, and can easily shift spending from one provider or format to another. As a consequence, our Required Materials product line, which includes eTextbooks, competes primarily on price and further on selection and functionality and compatibility of the eTextbook Reader we utilize across a wide variety of desktop and mobile devices. Our industry is evolving rapidly and is becoming increasingly competitive. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, and significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to marketing, website, and systems development than we do. In addition, a variety of business models are being pursued for the provision of print textbooks, some of which may be more profitable or successful than our business model. In addition, our competitors also may form or extend strategic alliances with publishers that could adversely affect our and our partners' ability to obtain textbooks on favorable terms. We face similar risks from strategic alliances by other participants in the education ecosystem with respect to our newer offerings. We may, in the future, establish alliances or relationships with other competitors or potential competitors. To the extent such alliances are terminated or new alliances and relationships are established, our business could be harmed. Our business is seasonal and we have increased risk from disruption during peak periods which makes our operating results difficult to predict. We derive a portion of our net revenues from print textbook rentals and, to a lesser extent, sale transactions, which occur in large part during short periods of time around the commencement of the fall, winter, and spring academic terms. In particular, we and our partners experience the largest increase in rental and sales volumes during the last two weeks of August and first two weeks of September and to a lesser degree in December and in January. The increased volume of orders that we have to process during these limited periods of time means that any shortfalls or disruptions in our operations during these peak periods will have a disproportionately large impact on our annual operating results and the potential future growth of our business. As a result of this seasonality, which corresponds to the academic calendar, our revenues may fluctuate significantly quarter to quarter depending upon the timing of where we are in our rush cycle and sequential quarter-over-quarter comparisons of our net revenues and operating results are not likely to be meaningful. In addition, our operating results for any given quarter cannot be used as an accurate indicator of our results for the year. In particular, we anticipate that our ability to accurately forecast financial results for future periods will be most limited at the time we present our second quarter financial results, which will generally occur midsummer and precede the fall rush. In addition, our other offerings, in particular services unrelated to textbooks, are relatively new and, as a result, we have limited experience with forecasting revenues from them. Beginning in 2020, as a result of our ownership of print textbooks in conjunction with the transition to FedEx for print textbook logistics and warehousing, Required Materials will also include revenues from print textbooks that we will own, which will be recognized as the total transaction amount ratably over the term of a rental period, which is generally two to five months. Chegg Services, rental revenues from print textbooks that we own, and eTextbooks revenues are primarily recognized 20 Table of Contents ratably over the term a student subscribes to our Chegg Services or rents a print textbook or eTextbook. This has generally resulted in our highest revenues and profitability in the fourth quarter as it reflects more days of the academic year. We base our operating expense budgets on expected net revenue trends. Operating expenses, similar to revenues and cost of revenues, fluctuate significantly quarter to quarter due to the seasonality of our business and are generally higher during the first and third quarters as we incur marketing expense in connection with our peak periods at the beginning of each academic term. Because our revenues are concentrated in the fourth quarter and expenses are concentrated in the first and third quarters, we have experienced operating losses in the first and third quarters and operating income in the fourth quarter. As a result, sequential quarterly comparison of our financial results may not be meaningful. Further, a portion of our expenses, such as office space lease obligations and personnel costs, are largely fixed and are based on our expectations of our peak levels of operations. Nonetheless, we expect to continue to incur significant marketing expenses during peak periods and to have fixed expenses for office space and personnel and as such, we may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenues shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in net revenues may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Growing our student user base and their engagement with our learning platform through mobile devices depends upon the effective operation of our mobile applications with mobile operating systems, networks, and standards that we do not control. There is no guarantee that students will use our mobile applications, such as the mobile version of our website, m.chegg.com, Chegg Prep (formerly Chegg Flashcards), and Chegg Study, rather than competing products. We are dependent on the interoperability of our mobile applications with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as Google's Android and Apple's iOS, and any changes in such systems that degrade our products functionality or give preferential treatment to competitive products could adversely affect the usage of our applications on mobile devices. Additionally, in order to deliver high quality mobile products, it is important that our products work well with a range of mobile technologies, systems, networks, and standards that we do not control. We may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks, or standards. In the event that it is more difficult for students to access and use our applications on their mobile devices, or if students choose not to access or use our applications on their mobile devices or use mobile products that do not offer access to our applications, our student growth and student engagement levels could be harmed. If the third-party eTextbook Reader that we utilize does not remain compatible with third-party operating systems, demand for our eTextbooks may decline and could have an adverse effect on our revenues. The third-party eTextbook Reader that we utilize is designed to provide students with access to eTextbooks from any device with an Internet connection and an Internet browser, including PCs, iPads, Android tablets, Kindles, and mobile phones. The third-party eTextbook Reader can be used across a variety of third-party operating systems. If this compatibility is not maintained, demand for our eTextbooks could decline and revenues could be adversely affected. If the transition from print textbooks to eTextbooks does not proceed as we expect, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. The textbook distribution market has begun shifting toward digital distribution. If demand for eTextbooks accelerates more rapidly than we expect, we may be unable to realize our expected return on the textbooks in our print textbook library and therefore carry excess and obsolete textbooks. Conversely, if the transition to digital distribution of textbooks does not gain market acceptance as we expect, capital requirements over the long term may be greater than we expect and our opportunities for growth may be diminished. In that case, we may need to raise additional capital, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and we may not realize the potential long-term benefits of a shift to digital distribution, including greater pricing flexibility and the ability to distribute a larger library of eTextbooks compared to print textbooks. If publishers refuse to grant us distribution rights to digital content on acceptable terms or terminate their agreements with us, or if we are unable to adequately protect their digital content rights, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on licenses from publishers to distribute eTextbooks to our customers and to provide some of our other products and services. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most publishers that guarantee the availability of such digital content. If we are unable to secure and maintain rights to distribute, or otherwise use, the digital content upon terms that are acceptable to us, or if publishers terminate their agreements with us, we would not be able to acquire such digital content from other sources and our ability to attract new students and retain existing students could be adversely impacted. Some of our licenses give the publisher the right to withdraw our rights to distribute or use the digital content without cause 21 Table of Contents and/or give the publisher the right to terminate the entire license agreement without cause. If a publisher exercises such a right, this could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Moreover, to the extent we are able to secure and maintain rights to distribute eTextbooks, our competitors may be able to obtain the same rights on more favorable terms. In addition, our ability to distribute eTextbooks depends on publishers belief that we include effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content. If the digital rights management technology that we use is compromised or otherwise malfunctions, we could be subject to claims, and publishers may be unwilling to include their content in our service. If users are able to circumvent the digital rights management technology that we use, they may acquire unauthorized copies of the textbooks that they would otherwise rent from us, which could decrease our textbook rental volume and adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to convince brands of the benefits of advertising on our learning platform, or if platforms such as Google Chrome, Safari, or Firefox limit our access to advertising and marketing audiences, our business could be harmed. Our business strategy includes increasing our revenues from brand advertising. Brands may view our learning platform as experimental and unproven. They may not do business with us, or may reduce the amounts they are willing to spend to advertise with us, if we do not deliver ads, sponsorships, and other commercial content and marketing programs in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return relative to other alternatives. Additionally, if platforms such as Google Chrome, Safari, or Firefox, take actions which limit our access to or understanding of advertising and marketing audiences, such actions could reduce our advertising rates and ultimately reduce our revenues from brand advertising. Our ability to grow the number of brands that use our brand advertising, and ultimately to generate advertising and marketing services revenues, depends on a number of factors, including our ability to successfully: integrate with third-party programmatic advertising platforms; reduce the exposure of actions taken by platforms to limit our access to advertising audiences; compete for advertising and marketing dollars from brands, online marketing, and media companies and advertisers; penetrate the market for student-focused advertising; develop a platform that can deliver advertising and marketing services across multiple channels, including print, email, Internet, mobile applications, and other connected devices; improve our analytics and measurement solutions to demonstrate the value of our advertising and marketing services; retain, grow, and engage our student user base; strengthen our brand and increase our presence in media reports and with publicity companies that utilize online platforms for advertising and marketing purposes; create new products that sustain or increase the value of our advertising and marketing services and other commercial content; manage changes in the way online advertising and marketing services are priced; weather the impact of macroeconomic conditions and conditions in the advertising industry and higher education in general; and manage legal developments relating to data privacy, advertising or marketing services, legislation and regulation and litigation. Our core value of putting students first may conflict with the short-term interests of our business. We believe that adhering to our core value of putting students first is essential to our success and in the best interests of our company and the long-term interests of our stockholders. In the past, we have forgone, and in the future we may forgo, short-term revenue opportunities that we do not believe are in the best interests of students, even if our decision negatively impacts our results of operations in the short term. For example, we offer free services to students that require investment by us, such as our Internships service, in order to promote a more comprehensive solution. We launched Chegg.org in 2019, which is the umbrella brand for our impact, advocacy, outreach, and research efforts regarding issues facing the modern student. We also developed the Chegg for Good program to connect students and employees with partners to engage them in causes related to education and the environment. Our philosophy of putting students first may cause us to make decisions that could negatively impact our relationships with publishers, colleges, and brands, whose interests may not always be aligned with ours or those of our students. Our decisions may not result in the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our level of student satisfaction and engagement, business, and results of operations could be harmed. 22 Table of Contents If we are required to discontinue certain of our current marketing activities, our ability to attract new students may be adversely affected. Laws or regulations may be enacted which restrict or prohibit use of emails or similar marketing activities that we currently rely on. For example: the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 and similar laws adopted by a number of states regulate unsolicited commercial emails, create criminal penalties for emails containing fraudulent headers, and control other abusive online marketing practices; the FTC has guidelines that impose responsibilities on companies with respect to communications with consumers and impose fines and liability for failure to comply with rules with respect to advertising or marketing practices they may deem misleading or deceptive; the TCPA restricts telemarketing and the use of automated telephone equipment. The TCPA limits the use of automatic dialing systems, artificial or prerecorded voice messages, and SMS text messages. It also applies to unsolicited text messages advertising the commercial availability of goods or services. Additionally, a number of states have enacted statutes that address telemarketing. For example, some states, such as California, Illinois, and New York, have created do-not-call lists. Other states, such as Oregon and Washington, have enacted no rebuttal statutes that require the telemarketer to end the call when the consumer indicates that he or she is not interested in the product being sold. Restrictions on telephone marketing, including calls and text messages, are enforced by the FTC, the Federal Communications Commission, states and through the availability of statutory damages and class action lawsuits for violations of the TCPA; and the CCPA, which came into effect on January 1, 2020, requires companies that process information on California residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices, allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties, and provides a new cause of action for data breaches. The burdens imposed by the CCPA and other similar laws that may be enacted at the federal and state level may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and how we advertise to our users and to incur substantial expenditure in order to comply. Even if no relevant law or regulation is enacted, we may discontinue use or support of these activities if we become concerned that students or potential students deem them intrusive or they otherwise adversely affect our goodwill and brand. If our marketing activities are curtailed, our ability to attract new students may be adversely affected. Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel. We depend on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel. In particular, we rely on the contributions of our President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chairperson, Dan Rosensweig. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, meaning they may terminate their employment relationship at any time. We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, benefits and equity compensation. Volatility or a decline in our stock price may affect our ability to retain and motivate key employees, each of whom has been granted stock options, RSUs or both. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense, and we may not be successful in retaining and motivating such personnel, particularly to the extent our stock price is volatile or at a depressed level, as equity compensation plays an important role in how we compensate our employees. Such individuals may elect to seek employment with other companies that they believe have better long-term prospects. If we lose the services of one or more members of our senior management team or other key personnel, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, finance, legal and media procurement personnel. Qualified individuals are in high demand, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where our executive offices are located, and we may incur significant costs to attract them. If we are unable to attract or retain the personnel we need to succeed, our business may suffer. We may need additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available or on favorable terms. Historically, investments in our business have substantially exceeded the cash we have generated from our operations. We have funded our operating losses and capital expenditures through proceeds from equity and debt financings, and cash flow from operations. Although we currently anticipate that our available funds and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future, we may require additional financing, particularly if the investment required to fund our operations is greater than we anticipate or we choose to invest in new technologies or complementary businesses or change our business model. Our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. Additional financing 23 Table of Contents may not be available to us on favorable terms when required or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Government regulation of education and student information is evolving, and unfavorable developments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to regulations and laws specific to the education sector because we offer our products and services to students, collect data from students, and offer education and training. Data privacy and security with respect to the collection of personally identifiable information from students continues to be a focus of worldwide legislation and regulation. This includes significant regulation in the European Union, and legislation and compliance requirements in various jurisdictions around the world. Within the United States, several states have enacted legislation that goes beyond any federal requirements relating to the collection and use of personally identifiable information and other data from students. Examples include statutes adopted by the State of California and most other states that require online services to report certain breaches of the security of personal data and a California statute that requires companies to provide choice to California customers about whether their personal data is disclosed to direct marketers or to report to California customers when their personal data has been disclosed to direct marketers. In this regard, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the U.S. Congress and various state legislative bodies regarding privacy issues related to our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could harm our business through a decrease in student registrations and revenues. These decreases could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before students can utilize our services. We post our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of student data on our website. However, any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, FTC requirements or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings by governmental or regulatory bodies or by private litigants that could potentially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to deliver course content to students enrolled in Thinkful skills programs may be subject to state oversight including regulatory approvals and licensure for the course content, the faculty members teaching the content, and the recruiting, admissions, and marketing activities associated with the business . Thinkful's efforts to obtain necessary approvals and licenses began prior to our acquisition of Thinkful and has continued following the acquisition. We monitor changes to the state regulatory requirements applicable to our Thinkful business, and to all of Chegg's business activities, however, any failure to obtain the appropriate licenses or address evolving state requirements may result in governmental or regulatory proceedings or actions by private litigants which could potentially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business may also be subject to laws specific to students, such as the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the Delaware Higher Education Privacy Act and a California statute which restricts the access by postsecondary educational institutions of prospective students social media account information. Compliance levels include obtaining government licenses, disclosures, consents, transfer restrictions, notice and access provisions for which we may in the future need to build further infrastructure to further support. We cannot guarantee that we or our acquired companies prior to our acquisition thereof have been or will be fully compliant in every jurisdiction, because it is not entirely clear how existing laws and regulations governing educational institutions affect our business and due to lengthy governmental compliance process timelines. Moreover, as the education industry continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state and foreign agencies becomes more likely. Recently, California adopted the Student Online Personal Information Protection Act which prohibits operators of online services used for K-12 school purposes from using or sharing student personal information and Colorado adopted House Bill 16-1423 designed to protect the use of student personal data in elementary and secondary school. These acts do not apply to general audience Internet websites but it is not clear how these acts will be interpreted and the breadth of services that will be restricted by them. Other states may adopt similar statutes. Certain states have also adopted statutes, such as California Education Code 66400, which prohibits the preparation or sale of material which should reasonably be known will be submitted for academic credit. These statutes are directed at enterprises selling term papers, theses, dissertations and the like, which we do not offer, and were not designed for services like ours which are designed to help students understand the relevant subject matter. Although we will continue to work with academic institutions to enforce our honor code and otherwise discourage students from misusing our services, other states may adopt similar or broader versions of these types of statutes, or the interpretation of the existing or future statutes may impact whether they are cited against us or where we can offer our services. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in the use of the Internet particularly for educational services, including laws limiting the content and learning programs that we can offer, and the audiences that we can offer that content to, may decrease demand for our service offerings and increase our cost of doing business. Future regulations, or changes in laws and regulations or their existing interpretations or applications, could also 24 Table of Contents hinder our operational flexibility, raise compliance costs and result in additional historical or future liabilities for us, resulting in adverse impacts on our business and our results of operations. While we expect and plan for new laws, regulations, and standards to be adopted over time that will be directly applicable to the Internet and to our student-focused activities, any existing or new legislation applicable to our business could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations and potential penalties or fees for non-compliance, and could negatively impact the growth in the use of the Internet for educational purposes and for our services in particular. We may also run the risk of retroactive application of new laws to our business practices that could result in liability or losses. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to change previous regulatory schemes or choose to regulate transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified, and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We collect, process, store and use personal information and data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. In the ordinary course of business, and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to students, we collect, process, store, and use personal information and data supplied by students and tutors. We may enable students to share their personal information with each other and with third parties and to communicate and share information into and across our platform. Other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the Internet regarding users browsing and other habits. There are numerous federal, state and local laws regarding privacy and the collection, storing, sharing, using, processing, disclosing and protecting of personal information and other user data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and which may be costly to comply with and may be inconsistent between countries and jurisdictions or conflict with other rules. We currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. Increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws, or new regulations restricting the collection, use and sharing of information from minors under the age of 18, that limit our ability to use collected data could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, if unauthorized access to our students data were to occur or if we were to disclose data about our student users in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation and brand could be adversely affected, and we could face legal claims that could impact our results of operations. Our reputation and brand and relationships with students would be harmed if our billing data were accessed by unauthorized persons. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. However, U.S. federal, U.S. state and international laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection, including the CCPA, are rapidly evolving and may be inconsistent and we could be deemed out of compliance as such laws and their interpretation change. In addition, foreign privacy, data protection, and other laws and regulations, particularly in Europe and including the DPD and the GDPR, are often more restrictive than those in the United States. Many of these laws and regulations, including the GDPR, are relatively new and it is not clear how these acts will be interpreted and the breadth of services and the methods of how we conduct or propose to conduct our business that will be restricted or otherwise effected by them. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to our business operations may limit the use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for them. Furthermore, foreign court judgments or regulatory actions could impact our ability to transfer, process and/or receive transnational data, including data relating to students or partners outside the United States, or alter our ability to use cookies to deliver advertising and other products to users. Such judgments or actions could affect the manner in which we provide our services or adversely affect our financial results if foreign students and partners are not able to lawfully transfer data to us. For example, in 2015 the European Court of Justice invalidated the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework that had been in place since 2000, which allowed companies to meet certain European legal requirements for the transfer of personal data from the European Economic Area to the United States. While other adequate legal mechanisms to lawfully transfer such data remain, the invalidation of the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework may result in different European data protection regulators applying differing standards for the transfer of personal data, which could result in increased regulation, cost of compliance and limitations on data transfer for us and our customers. In addition, some countries and states are considering or have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services. Any changes in such laws and regulations or a change or differing interpretation or application to our business of the existing laws and regulations, including the recently implemented GDPR, could also hinder our operational flexibility, raise compliance costs and, particularly if our compliance efforts are deemed to be insufficient, result in additional historical or future liabilities for us, resulting in adverse impacts on our business and our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents In addition, we may be subject to regulatory investigations or litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue, and we could also be liable to third parties for these types of breaches. For instance, following the Data Incident, a purported securities class action captioned Shah v. Chegg, Inc. et. al. (Case No. 3:18-cv-05956-CRB) was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against us and our CEO. The complaint was filed by a purported Chegg stockholder and alleges claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, based on allegedly misleading statements regarding our security measures to protect users data and related internal