Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations or in other filings by Chegg with the SEC, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that are not currently believed by us to be material may also harm our business operations and financial results. Because of the following risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and results of operations, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Summary of Risk Factors Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our common stock speculative or risky. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this risk factor summary, and other risks that we face, can be found below under the heading Risk Factors and should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Growth Our revenue has declined and our business depends on our ability to continue to attract new learners to, and retain existing learners on, our learning platform. If we fail to innovate and offer new products and services in response to rapidly evolving technological and market developments, including AI, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed. We face competition in all aspects of our business, including with respect to AI, and we expect such competition to increase. Our exploration of strategic alternatives may not be successful and may disrupt our ongoing business, result in increased expenses and present certain other risks. U.S. colleges have faced, and may continue to face, reduced enrollment, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our international operations, and the expansion thereof, subject us to increased challenges, risks, and costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have a limited operating history in international jurisdictions and our expansion efforts into international markets may not be successful. The uncertainty surrounding the evolving educational landscape, including the impact of AI on learning and education, the state of the student including the amount and the extent to which AI will impact study habits and how students learn and/or complete their assignments, and the demand for our evolving offerings make it difficult to predict our operational trends and results of operations. If our efforts to drive user traffic, including search engine optimization, social media campaigns, and other marketing, are not successful, student discovery of, and engagement with, our learning platform could decline, which may harm our business and results of operations. If our efforts to build and maintain strong brands are not successful, we may not be able to grow our student user base, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business depends on general economic conditions and their effect on spending behavior by students and advertising budgets. We have a history of losses, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. If we do not retain our senior management team and key employees, we may not be able to sustain our growth or achieve our business objectives. We have undertaken, and may in the future undertake, internal restructuring activities that could result in disruptions to our business or otherwise materially harm our results of operations or financial condition. We depend on mobile app stores and operating systems to grow our student user base and their engagement with our learning platform. Our wide variety of accepted payment methods subjects us to third-party payment processing-related risks, including risks associated with credit card fraud. We rely on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and other third-party software and service providers to provide systems, storage, and services for our website and any disruption of such services or a material change to our arrangements could adversely affect our business. Our growth strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to execute on our acquisition strategy or integrate acquisitions successfully. If we fail to convince brands of the benefits of advertising on our learning platform, or if platforms such as Google Chrome, Safari, or Firefox limit our access to advertising and marketing audiences, or the data required to effectively reach those audiences, our business could be harmed. We may need additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available on favorable terms, if at all. Our core value of putting students first may conflict with the short-term interests of our business. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we are or may be involved could expose us to monetary damages or limit our ability to operate our business. If we are not able to manage the growth of our business both in terms of scale and complexity, our business could be adversely affected. Our business is seasonal, and disruptions during peak periods can make, and have made, our operating results difficult to predict. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Government regulation of education and student information is evolving, and unfavorable developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Colleges and certain governments may restrict online access or access to our website, which could lead to the loss of or slowing of growth in our student user base and their level of engagement with our platform. If we are required to discontinue certain of our current marketing activities, our ability to attract new students may be adversely affected. We are subject to U.S. trade control laws that may restrict growth prospects and impose liability if we are non-compliant. Risks Related to Taxes and Accounting Matters We may be subject to greater than anticipated liabilities for income, property, sales, and other taxes, and any successful action by federal, state, foreign, or other authorities to collect additional taxes could adversely harm our business. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate as a result of new U.S. and worldwide tax laws and our interpretations of those new tax laws, which are subject to significant judgments and estimates. The ongoing effects of the new tax laws and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict. Our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates formulated by our management. Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Misuse of our platform and content, including digital piracy and improper sharing and misappropriation of user credentials, may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. If we become subject to liability for the Internet content that we publish or that is uploaded to our websites by students or other users, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in or our failure to comply with the requirements for eligibility for the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) safe harbors could harm our business. We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property claims, which are costly to defend and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Some aspects of our technology include open-source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open-source licenses could harm our business. Risks Related to Data Privacy The compromise of our information technology systems or data, including through computer malware, viruses, hacking, phishing attacks, spamming and other security incidents, could harm our business and results of operations. We collect, process, store and use personal information and other sensitive data, which subjects us to stringent and evolving U.S. and foreign laws, governmental regulation, contractual obligations, policies and other legal obligations. Public scrutiny of Internet privacy issues and actual or perceived failure to comply with our obligations with respect to privacy and data security could harm our business, including by damaging our reputation and relationships with students and educators. We are subject to privacy and cybersecurity laws across multiple jurisdictions which are highly complex, overlapping, and which create compliance challenges that may expose us to substantial costs, liabilities, or loss of customer trust. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with these laws could harm our business. Our business, including our ability to operate internationally, could be adversely affected if new legislation or regulations are adopted or due to changes in interpretations or implementations of current legislation and regulations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. We may be subject to short-selling strategies that may drive down the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Growth Our revenue has declined and our business depends on our ability to continue to attract new learners to, and retain existing learners on, our learning platform. Our business depends on our ability to attract new students to use our products and services and to increase retention and the level of engagement by existing students with our learning platform and maintain pricing levels. The substantial majority of our revenues depends on small transactions made by a widely dispersed student population with an inherently high rate of turnover primarily as a result of graduation. The rate at which our student user base expands or declines, the rate at which we 13 Table of Contents retain existing students, and the engagement with our learning platform may fluctuate because of several factors, including, among others: our ability to engage students with our suite of Subscription Services and the content contained therein; our ability to introduce new products and services that are favorably received by students, including a new AI-enabled interactive and personalized user experience; our ability to convert visitors to paying subscribers given the availability of free competitors and content; piracy and unauthorized use of our content; the decreasing number of students attending U.S. colleges; our ability to localize our content, localize our pricing, localize our payment and commerce tools, and create new apps in different languages and for different geographies to further our international expansion through increased conversion and retention; our ability to increase our total addressable market beyond STEM-B (science, technology, engineering, mathematics and business); our ability to grow our skills business-to-business partnerships and partnerships with providers who link us to employers and their learners; changes in student spending levels and habits; and the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, including generating word-of-mouth referrals. If we do not attract more students, retain our existing students, or if students do not increase their level of engagement with our platform, our revenues will continue to decline. The student demographic is characterized by rapidly changing tastes, preferences, behavior, brand loyalty, and price sensitivity. Developing an enduring business model to serve this population is particularly challenging. Attracting new students depends not only on our investment in our brand and content and our marketing efforts, but also on the perceived value of our products and services versus alternatives, some of which are free. If our efforts to satisfy our existing student user base are not successful or become less effective, or if the cost of such efforts were to significantly increase, we may not be able to attract new students as successfully or efficiently and we may not be able to retain existing students on our platform. As a result, our business, growth, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, even if we succeed in establishing brand awareness and loyalty, we may be unable to maintain and grow our student user base if we cannot offer competitive prices for our products and services, adequately prevent unauthorized account sharing of our subscription program services, or prevent the piracy and illegal reproduction of our content. If we fail to maintain and expand our user base, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we fail to innovate and offer new products and services in response to rapidly evolving technological and market developments, including AI, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to the threat and opportunity presented by new technology disruption and developments. These include new software applications or related services based on AI and machine learning, among other developments. New technologies, including those based on AI, can provide students with more immediate responses than traditional tools. These new technologies have resulted in headwinds to our business, and over time, the accuracy of these tools and their ability to handle complex questions is expected to improve, which would be disruptive to education technology businesses, such as ours. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to develop and scale a high-performance technology infrastructure to efficiently handle increased usage by students, especially during peak periods each academic term. We may develop new products, services, and technologies independently, by acquisition, or in conjunction with third parties. In April 2023, we announced our pivot to AI with a partnership with OpenAI to utilize GPT-4 in our offerings. Beginning in September 2023, we started to roll out the first phase of our new AI-powered user experience, and we are continuing to make significant investments in AI initiatives. Our updated user experience and investments in AI have not attracted as many new students as anticipated to our platform and our business has been adversely affected. If our business plans and product developments are unsuccessful or if we do not attract new students to our platform, we may not generate sufficient revenue, operating margin, or other value to justify our investments, and our business may be materially adversely affected. Global non-subscriber traffic to Chegg declined year-over-year 8% in Q2 2024, 19% in Q3 2024, 39% in Q4 2024 and we entered 2025 with trends looking even more unfavorable, at a 49% year-over-year decline for the month of January 2025, which has had, and if it persists or worsens, will continue to have a material adverse effect on our business. While the overall effect of technological changes on our business is difficult to predict, recent technological shifts have created and are expected to continue creating headwinds for our industry and our business. Failure to keep pace with these 14 Table of Contents technological developments or otherwise bring to market products that reflect these technologies and are accepted by students would have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. Our business has been negatively impacted by these developments, and we may not be successful in anticipating or responding to further developments, on a timely and cost-effective basis or at all. We may invest in new products, services, and other initiatives, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be successful. The markets for new products and services may be unproven, and these products may include technologies and business models with which we have little or no prior experience or may significantly change our existing products and services. The effort to gain technological expertise and develop new technologies in our business requires us to incur significant expenses. In addition, we may be unable to obtain long-term licenses from third-party providers and/or government regulatory approvals and licenses necessary to allow a new or existing product or service to function. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors, or if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies or product offerings, we could experience a material adverse effect on our operating results, growth and financial condition. We face competition in all aspects of our business, including with respect to AI, and we expect such competition to increase. Our products and services compete for students, and we expect such competition to increase as our industry evolves rapidly. We face significant competition from education and learning companies, many of which are developing their own AI products and technologies, as well as other companies that are not specifically focused on education and learning services but whose broad AI offerings may nonetheless significantly impact education and learning. Our services face competition from other education and learning companies based on the particular offering. These competitors are using AI technology to build on their historical offerings. For Chegg Study, our competitors primarily include platforms that provide study materials and online instructional systems, such as Course Hero, Quizlet, Khan Academy, and Brainly. For Chegg Writing, we primarily face competition from other citation generating and grammar and plagiarism services, such as Grammarly. For Chegg Math, we face competition from other equation solver services, such as Photomath, Gauthmath, and Symbolab. For Busuu, our competitors primarily include language learning platforms, such as Duolingo and Babbel. For Skills, we face competition from other online learning platforms and online skills accelerator courses both in the direct-to-consumer category, including General Assembly, Galvanize, Inc., Flatiron School, Codecademy, DataCamp, and Lambda, Inc., as well as white-label and co-branded providers who compete for adult learners through third party institutions, including 2U, Inc., Simplilearn, and Kenzie Academy. Our competitors that are not specifically focused on education and learning services but whose AI offerings may impact education and learning include companies such as Google, OpenAI, Microsoft, Meta, and Anthropic. In particular, Google's roll out of Artificial Intelligence Overview (AIO) has created and is expected to continue to create headwinds for our industry and our business, most notably reductions in traffic to our website and customers subscribing to our services. In August 2024, Google began to significantly expand its AIO search experience, which displays AI-generated content at the top of its search results. This experience, which includes questions and solutions for education, keeps users on Google search results versus leading them onto our site. AIOs prevalence has grown and may continue to increase. While we continue to study the changes and adjust our SEO strategy, we expect Google may continue its shift from being a search origination point to the destination, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. As described in more detail in Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, on February 24, 2025, we filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against Google LLC and Alphabet Inc. ("Google"), asserting federal antitrust claims and common-law unjust enrichment claims, in connection with Google's expansion of its AIO search experience. Given the nature of the case, including that the proceedings are in their early stages, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of the case or whether Google will seek to counterclaim, or the likelihood of success should Google do so. This claim could result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time, and divert significant resources. See Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we are or may be involved could expose us to monetary damages or limit our ability to operate our business." Certain educational institutions, such as the University of Michigan, are also developing AI tools which may compete with our offerings. AI technologies may also significantly facilitate the entry of new competitors into our industry. Our competition may develop products and technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies or are more cost-effective to develop and deploy. Given the long history of development in the AI sector, other parties may have (or in the future may obtain) patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit, or interfere with our ability to make, use, or sell our own AI products. Further, our ability to continue to develop and effectively deploy AI technologies is dependent on access to specific third-party large language models, equipment and other physical infrastructure, such as processing hardware and network capacity, as to which we cannot control the availability or pricing, especially in a highly competitive environment. Across our industry, there has been a continued increase in the adoption of free and paid generative AI products for academic support, and students are increasingly turning to generative AI for academic support, such as homework and exams, as well as assistance in other areas of daily life. This shift in student behavior impacts education technology companies broadly, where students see generative AI products like Chat GPT and others as strong alternatives to vertically specialized solutions for 15 Table of Contents education such as Chegg. These developments have negatively impacted our industry and our business and may continue to impact our overall traffic and accelerate the decline in the number of new subscribers that sign up for our services. Some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies (including free offerings), less stringent standards for user-uploaded content, and devote substantially more resources to marketing, website, and systems development than we do. As a result, we have and could continue to experience a material adverse effect on our operating results, growth and financial condition. Our exploration of strategic alternatives may not be successful and may disrupt our ongoing business, result in increased expenses and present certain other risks. On February 24, 2025, we announced that we are undertaking a strategic review process and exploring a range of alternatives to maximize shareholder value, including being acquired, undertaking a go-private transaction, or remaining as a standalone public company.This review will be ongoing with our continued investment, innovation, and execution. We have not set a timetable for the completion of this process, and there can be no assurance that it will result in any transaction or outcome. Whether the process will result in any transactions, and if we decide to pursue one or more transactions, our ability to complete any transaction, will depend on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control. Such factors include the interest of potential acquirers or strategic partners in a potential transaction, the value potential acquirers or strategic partners attribute to our businesses and their respective prospects, market conditions, interest rates and industry trends. The attention of management and our board of directors could be diverted from our core business operations as a result of the process. We have diverted capital and other resources to the process that otherwise could have been used in our business operations, and we will continue to do so until the process is completed. Whether or not we complete a transaction, we could incur substantial expenses associated with identifying and evaluating potential strategic alternatives, including those related to employee retention payments, equity compensation, severance pay and legal, accounting and financial advisor fees. In addition, the process could lead us to lose or fail to attract, retain and motivate key employees, and to lose or fail to attract students on our platform or business partners. Furthermore, it could expose us to litigation. The public announcement of a strategic alternative may also yield a negative impact on operating results if prospective or existing service providers are reluctant to commit to new or renewal contracts. We do not intend to disclose developments or provide updates on the progress or status of the process until we deem further disclosure is appropriate or required. Accordingly, speculation regarding any developments related to the review of strategic alternatives and perceived uncertainties related to the future of Chegg could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. Our stock price may also be adversely affected if the process does not result in a transaction or if one or more transactions are completed on terms that investors view as unfavorable to us. Even if one or more transactions are completed, there can be no assurance that any such transactions will be successful or have a positive effect on stockholder value. Our board of directors may also determine that no transaction is in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, our financial results and operations could be adversely affected by the process and by the uncertainty regarding its outcome. U.S. colleges have faced, and may continue to face, reduced enrollment, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. According to the National Student Clearinghouse, since 2010, total undergraduate college enrollment in the United States has decreased by approximately 2.8 million. Chegg derives a significant portion of its revenue from students attending U.S. colleges; and as such, a continued decrease in the number of students enrolled in U.S. colleges could materially negatively impact our business, growth, results of operations, and financial condition. Our international operations, and the expansion thereof, subject us to increased challenges, risks, and costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and subjects us to regulatory, economic, and political risks that are different from those in the United States. In addition to our employee base in the United States, as of December 31, 2024 we had employees in Canada, Israel, India, the United Kingdom, and Spain, and we have retained professional employer organizations and staffing agencies to engage personnel in certain additional international locations. Our international operations subject us to the compensation and benefits regulations of those jurisdictions, as well as other employer duties and obligations, that differ from the compensation and benefits regulations and duties and obligations in the United States. Further, enrollments of learners from other countries requires us to comply with international data privacy 16 Table of Contents and education regulations of those countries. Failure to comply with international regulations or to adequately adapt to international markets could harm our ability to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals. We have a limited operating history in international jurisdictions and our expansion efforts into international markets may not be successful. We periodically expand our international operations and presence, in order to make our products and services available in more international markets. However, we have a limited operating history in international jurisdictions and expanding our international operations will require considerable management attention and resources to attract talented employees and students. Our expansion efforts into international markets may not be successful. In addition, we face risks in doing business internationally that could constrain our operations, increase our cost structure, and compromise our growth prospects, including: the need to localize and adapt content for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages; local laws restricting students from accessing online education platforms such as ours; data privacy laws that may require data to be handled in a specific manner, including storing, processing, and encrypting data solely on local servers; varying levels of internet technology adoption and infrastructure, and increased or varying network and hosting service provider costs; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including in countries in which foreign employees may become part of labor unions, employee representative bodies, workers councils or collective bargaining agreements, and challenges relating to work stoppages or slowdowns; different pricing environments, difficulties in adopting and supporting new and different payment preferences, and collections issues; new and different sources of competition and practices which may favor local competitors; the ability to protect and enforce intellectual property rights abroad; the educational regulatory regime in certain countries and their ability to levy civil and criminal penalties on, or completely block students from accessing, services like Chegg; compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, legal systems, and alternative dispute systems, including, but not limited to, employment, tax, privacy and data protection, economic sanctions and export controls, U.S. and other anti-boycott authorities, anti-money laundering laws, and anti-bribery laws and regulations such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Office of Foreign Assets Controls, and the U.K. Bribery Act; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens, complexities, and commercial infrastructures; risks associated with international payment methods, including risks associated with fraudulent payments; risks associated with foreign tax regimes, trade tariffs, or similar issues, which could negatively impact international adoption of our offerings; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the requirements of currency control regulations, which might restrict or prohibit conversion of other currencies into U.S. dollars; adverse tax consequences, including the potential for required withholding taxes for our overseas employees; and regional and economic political conditions. If we cannot address these challenges, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to gain market acceptance in any particular market is uncertain and the distraction of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The uncertainty surrounding the evolving educational landscape, including the impact of AI on learning and education, the state of the student including the amount and the extent to which AI will impact study habits and how students learn and/or complete their assignments, and the demand for our evolving offerings make it difficult to predict our operational trends and results of operations. The uncertainty surrounding the evolving educational landscape, the state of the student, the use by students of free generative AI products for academic support, and the demand and market for our products and services make it difficult to predict our operational trends and results of operations, particularly with respect to our newer offerings, and the ultimate market size for our products and services. If the market and demand for a comprehensive learning platform does not develop as we expect, or if we fail to address the needs of this market, our business and prospects would be harmed. Given the current environment of uncertainty, we may not be able to provide annual financial guidance. Additionally, we expect our results of operations to fluctuate in the future based on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control and difficult to predict. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be a good indicator of our 17 Table of Contents future or long-term performance. The following factors, including the risks more fully described throughout this "Risk Factors" section, may affect us from period-to-period and may affect our long-term performance: our ability to attract, retain and engage students with our offerings; rapidly changing technological developments, such as AI and machine learning, that have impacted and are expected to continue impacting the education landscape and our response to those developments, including our ability to successfully integrate AI technology into our offerings; increased competition as a result of advances in AI technology from companies that have not historically competed with us in education services, such as Google, OpenAI, Microsoft, Meta, and Anthropic, who may offer free generative AI products for academic support or whose general AI offerings are being adopted by students in lieu of our offerings; changes to the way students discover our content or a decline in our search engine result page rankings; changes to Googles search experience, including its AI overviews search experience, which displays AI-generated content at the top of its search results, including questions and solutions for education, that keeps users on Google's search results instead of leading them to our site; the rate of adoption of our offerings; the trend of declining college enrollment; changes by our competitors to their product and service offerings, including price and content; our ability to accurately forecast financial results for future periods, especially at the time we present our second quarter financial results, which will generally occur midsummer and precede our fall rush; our ability to integrate acquired businesses, including personnel; government regulations, in particular regarding privacy, academic integrity, advertising, click-to-cancel and taxation; operating costs and capital expenditures relating to content and the expansion of our business; and general macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, recession, and global conflicts. If our efforts to drive user traffic, including search engine optimization, social media campaigns, and other marketing, are not successful, student discovery of, and engagement with, our learning platform could decline, which may harm our business and results of operations. We have depended in the past on various search engines and free marketing tools to direct a significant amount of traffic to our website, but we are increasingly investing in other channels, including social media campaigns, to drive traffic and make us more discoverable to students. Similarly, we depend on mobile app stores such as the Google Play Store and the Apple App Store to allow students to locate and download Chegg mobile applications that enable our services. Our ability to maintain the number of students directed to our learning platform is not entirely within our control. Our competitors efforts to drive student discovery of, and engagement with, their offerings may be more successful than ours. Their websites may receive a higher search result page ranking than ours, or search engines could revise their methodologies or algorithms in ways that could adversely affect the placement of our search result page ranking or otherwise make it harder for students to find our learning platform. In mid-August, Google broadly rolled out its AIO search experience, which displays AI-generated content at the top of its search results. This experience, which includes questions and solutions for education, keeps users on Google search results versus leading them onto Cheggs site. AIOs prevalence will only continue to increase. While we continue to study the changes and will adjust our SEO strategy, we expect Google to continue its shift from being a search origination point to the destination, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our website has experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Global non-subscriber traffic to Chegg declined year-over-year 8% in Q2 2024, 19% in Q3 2024, 39% in Q4 2024 and we entered 2025 with trends looking even more unfavorable, at negative 49% year-over-year for the month of January 2025. A continued decline in traffic to our site would materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Similarly, our competitors may achieve higher social media engagement than ours, social media companies may alter their algorithms in ways that disadvantage our content, or the social media platforms we use may become less popular with students, each of which may adversely impact the effectiveness of our campaigns. If our competitors efforts to increase user traffic are more successful than ours, our decline could accelerate, including the number of Subscription Services subscribers, student engagement could decrease, and fewer students may use our platform. Any reduction in the number of students directed to our learning platform could harm our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents If our efforts to build and maintain strong brands are not successful, we may not be able to grow our student user base, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We believe our brands are a key asset of our business. Developing, protecting, and enhancing our Chegg brands are critical to expanding our student user base and increasing student engagement. Having a strong brand can counteract the significant student turnover we experience from year to year as students graduate and differentiate us from our competitors. To succeed in our efforts to strengthen our brands identities, we must, among other activities: maintain our reputation as a trusted technology platform and source of content, services, and textbooks for students; maintain and improve the quality of our existing products, services, and technologies; introduce compelling products and services; adapt to changing technologies, including AI and machine learning, and changes in the learning environment; protect user data, such as passwords and personally identifiable information; adapt to students rapidly changing tastes, preferences, behavior, and brand loyalties; continue to expand our reach to students in high school, college, graduate school, lifelong learners throughout their careers, and internationally; ensure that the student-posted content to our website is reliable and does not infringe on third-party copyrights or violate other applicable laws, our terms of use, or the ethical codes of those students colleges; ensure that our experts' content is reliable and helpful; protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights; convert and integrate the brands and students that we acquire into the Chegg brand and Chegg.com; and maintain and control the quality of our brand. Our ability to successfully achieve these goals is not entirely within our control and we may not be able to maintain the strength of our brands or do so cost-effectively. Factors that could negatively affect our brands include, among others: changes in student sentiment about the quality or usefulness of our products and services, especially as we introduce our new AI-enabled interactive and personalized user experience; the quality and accuracy of our content; technical or other problems that prevent us from providing our products and services reliably or otherwise negatively affect the student experience with our products and services; concern from colleges and regulatory agencies regarding how students use our content offerings, such as our Expert Questions and Answers service; student concerns related to privacy and use of data in our products and services; the reputation of the products and services of competitive companies; and students misuse of our products and services in ways that violate our Terms of Use, our Honor Code, other company policies, applicable laws, or the code of conduct at their educational institutions. Our business depends on general economic conditions and their effect on spending behavior by students and advertising budgets. Our business is dependent on, among other factors, general economic conditions, which affect student spending, and brand advertising. Adverse economic conditions, including inflation, fluctuating interest rates, market uncertainty, and war (including the war in Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war), may adversely impact our ability to attract new students to, and retain existing students on, our platform. To the extent that these conditions continue, students may elect to not attend colleges and universities and may reduce the amount they spend on educational content. In addition to decreased spending by students as a result of these economic conditions, business partners may reduce their spend on our offerings and brands may reduce their spend on our advertising services. Any of the foregoing may have an adverse effect on our business. We have a history of losses, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have experienced cumulative net losses since our incorporation in July 2005, and we may continue to experience net losses in the future. As of December 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $889.4 million. We expect to make significant investments in the development and expansion of our business and, as a result, our cost of revenues and operating expenses may increase. We may not succeed in increasing our revenues sufficiently to offset these higher expenses, and our efforts to grow the business may be more expensive than we anticipate. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including slowing or lower demand for our products and services, increasing competition, decreased spending on education, 19 Table of Contents and other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, challenges, complications, delays, and other unknown factors, as we pursue our business plan. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we have experienced a 14% decrease in Subscription Services subscribers and a 14% decrease in Subscription Services revenue year-over-year. Although we expect to continue to make significant investments in efforts to attract new, and retain existing, subscribers and increase Subscription Services revenue, we may not succeed in doing so. To achieve profitability, we may need to change our operating infrastructure, scale our operations more efficiently, reduce our costs, or implement changes in our product and services offerings. If we fail to timely implement these changes or we cannot implement them for any reason, including due to factors beyond our control, our business may suffer, which may hinder our ability to sustain or increase such profitability. If we do not retain our senior management team and key employees, we may not be able to sustain our growth or achieve our business objectives. We depend on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel. In particular, we rely on the contributions of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Nathan Schultz. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, meaning they may terminate their employment relationship at any time. If we lose the services of one or more members of our senior management team or other key personnel, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for these employees is intense. Qualified individuals are in high demand, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where our executive offices are located, and if we cannot attract or retain the personnel we need to succeed, our business may suffer. As of December 31, 2024, there were 10,340,723 shares available for grant under the 2023 Equity Incentive Plan. Given the number of shares available for grant and given the decrease in our stock price, we may need to request that our shareholders vote on a new equity incentive plan sooner than previously anticipated. If our shareholders do not approve a new equity incentive plan or if we are not able to grant employees the appropriate number of shares, we may not be successful in compensating our key employees commensurate with other technology companies with whom we compete for talent, and we may lose their services. In addition, we may not be able to attract their replacements. If we cannot retain our key employees or attract adequate replacements, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives and our financial condition could be materially negatively impacted. We have undertaken, and may in the future undertake, internal restructuring activities that could result in disruptions to our business or otherwise materially harm our results of operations or financial condition. From time to time, we have undertaken and may continue to undertake internal restructuring activities in an effort to better align our resources with our business strategy. For example, in November 2024 and June 2024, we announced restructuring plans that included reductions of our global workforce of approximately 760 employees, or approximately 22% of our workforce, to better align our cost structure with recent industry challenges that are negatively impacting our business, including increased competition and student adoption of generative AI products. We incur substantial costs to implement restructuring plans, and our restructuring activities may subject us to reputational risks and litigation risks and expenses. There can be no assurance that any restructuring activities that we have undertaken or undertake in the future will achieve the cost savings, operating efficiencies, or other benefits that we may initially expect. In addition, restructuring activities has in the past and may continue to result in loss of institutional knowledge and expertise, attrition beyond our intended reduction in force, or a negative impact on employee morale and productivity or our ability to attract highly skilled employees. Internal restructurings can also require a significant amount of time and focus from management and other employees, which may divert attention from commercial operations. If any internal restructuring activities we have undertaken or undertake in the future fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on mobile app stores and operating systems to grow our student user base and their engagement with our learning platform. There is no guarantee that students will use our mobile apps, such as the mobile version of our website, m.chegg.com, and Chegg Study, rather than competing products. We are dependent on the interoperability of our mobile apps with popular third-party mobile operating systems such as Google's Android and Apple's iOS, and their placement in popular app stores like the Google Play Store and the Apple App Store, and any changes in such systems that degrade our products functionality or 20 Table of Contents give preferential treatment or app store placement to competitive products could adversely affect the access and usage of our applications on mobile devices. Each operating system provider has broad discretion to make changes to its operating systems or payment services or change the manner in which their mobile operating systems function and to change and interpret its terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers, and those changes may be unfavorable to us. For example, such changes could limit, eliminate or otherwise interfere with our products, our ability to distribute our applications through their stores, our ability to update our applications, including to make bug fixes or other feature updates or upgrades, the features we provide, the manner in which we market our products, our ability to access native functionality, or other aspects of mobile devices, and our ability to access information about our users that they collect. If it is more difficult for students to access and use our apps on their mobile devices, our student growth and engagement levels could be harmed. Our wide variety of accepted payment methods subjects us to third-party payment processing-related risks, including risks associated with credit card fraud. We accept payments from students using a variety of methods, including credit cards, debit cards, and PayPal. As we offer new payment options to students, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and incidents of fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. For example, we have in the past experienced higher transaction fees from our third-party processors as a result of chargebacks on credit card transactions. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing and information storage of credit cards and debit cards. If these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, our business could be disrupted. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to additional fines and higher transaction fees; lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our students or process electronic funds transfers; or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may experience some loss from fraudulent credit card transactions, including potential liability for not obtaining signatures from students in connection with the use of credit cards. While we do have safeguards in place, we cannot be certain that other fraudulent schemes will not be successful. A failure to adequately control fraudulent transactions could harm our business and results of operations. We rely on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and other third-party software and service providers to provide systems, storage, and services for our website and any disruption of such services or a material change to our arrangements could adversely affect our business. We rely on AWS and other third-party software and service providers to provide systems, storage, and services, including user login authentication, for our website. Our reliance makes us vulnerable to any errors, interruptions, or delays in their operations. Any disruption in the services provided by third-party providers, including AWS, could harm our reputation or brand, cause us to lose subscribers or revenues or incur substantial recovery costs and distract management from operating our business. Further, these third-party software and service providers may experience operational difficulties, including increased usage of their software and services from time to time. If they cannot adapt to the increase in demand or fail to ensure availability of their software and services, our ability to service users requests may be impacted, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. AWS may terminate its agreement with us upon 30 days notice. Upon expiration or termination of our agreement with AWS, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, that are favorable to us, and a transition from one vendor to another vendor could subject us to operational delays and inefficiencies until the transition is complete. 21 Table of Contents Our growth strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to execute on our acquisition strategy or integrate acquisitions successfully. As part of our business strategy, we have made and intend to continue to make acquisitions to add specialized employees, complementary businesses, products, services, operations, or technologies. Our recent prior acquisitions include Busuu, Mathway, and Thinkful. To be successful, we must timely and efficiently integrate acquired companies, including their technologies, products, services, operations, and personnel. Acquired companies can be complex and time consuming to integrate and we may incur significant integration costs and we may not be able to offset our acquisition costs. Acquisitions involve many risks that may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including the risks that the acquisitions may: require us to incur charges and substantial debt or liabilities; cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, or deferred compensation charges; result in acquired in-process research and development expenses or in the future may require the amortization, write-down, or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill, and other intangible assets; and give rise to various litigation and regulatory risks. In addition: we may encounter difficulties or unforeseen expenditures to integrate an acquired company; an acquisition may disrupt our business, divert resources, increase expenses, and distract our management; an acquisition may reduce or delay adoption and engagement rates for our acquired products and services because of student uncertainty about continuity and effectiveness; an acquisition may subject us to laws and operational challenges in new jurisdictions with which we are unfamiliar; we may not successfully transition acquired users to the Chegg platform and therefore may not realize the potential benefits of these acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen costs as a result of the pre-acquisition activities of businesses and technologies we acquire; we may be required to honor the pre-existing contractual relationships of businesses we acquire, which contracts may be on terms that we would not have otherwise accepted; it may be difficult to monetize any acquired products and services; an acquisition may not ultimately be complementary to our offerings; and an acquisition may involve entry into markets where we have little or no prior experience. Our ability to acquire and integrate larger or more complex businesses, products, services, operations, or technologies in a successful manner is unproven. Our newer products and services, such as skills-based learning and language learning, may not be integrated effectively into our business, achieve or sustain profitability, or achieve market acceptance at levels sufficient to justify our investment. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. To finance any future acquisitions, we may issue equity or equity-linked securities, which could be dilutive, or debt, which could be costly, potentially dilutive, and impose substantial restrictions on the conduct of our business. If we fail to successfully complete any acquisitions or integrate them into our company, or identify and address liabilities associated with the acquisition, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have encountered and will continue to encounter these risks, and if we do not manage them successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to convince brands of the benefits of advertising on our learning platform, or if platforms such as Google Chrome, Safari, or Firefox limit our access to advertising and marketing audiences, or the data required to effectively reach those audiences, our business could be harmed. Our business strategy includes increasing our revenues from brand advertising. Brands may not do business with us, or may reduce their advertising spend with us, if we do not deliver ads, sponsorships, and other commercial content and marketing programs effectively, or if they do not believe that their investment will generate a competitive return relative to other alternatives. Additionally, if platforms such as Google Chrome, Safari, or Firefox, limit our access to or understanding of advertising and marketing audiences, they could reduce our advertising rates and ultimately reduce our revenues from brand advertising. For example, the release of iOS 14 on Apple devices brought with it a number of new changes, including the need for app users to opt in before their identifier for advertisers (IDFA) can be accessed by an app. Apples IDFA is a string of numbers and letters assigned to Apple devices which advertisers use to identify app users to deliver personalized and targeted advertising. As more users opt out of granting IDFA access, the ability of advertisers to accurately target and measure their advertising campaigns at the user level may become significantly limited and we may experience increased cost per registration. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to grow the number of brands that use our brand advertising, and ultimately to generate advertising revenues, depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control, such as the impact of macroeconomic conditions and legal developments relating to data privacy, advertising, legislation and regulation and litigation. We may need additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available on favorable terms, if at all. Historically, investments in our business have substantially exceeded the cash we have generated from our operations. We have funded our operating losses and capital expenditures through proceeds from equity and debt financings, and cash flow from operations. Although we currently anticipate that our available funds and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future, we may require additional financing. Additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms when required or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked, or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Our core value of putting students first may conflict with the short-term interests of our business. We believe that adhering to our core value of putting students first is essential to our success and in the best interests of our company and the long-term interests of our stockholders. In the past, we have forgone, and in the future, we may forgo, short-term revenue opportunities that we do not believe are in the best interests of students, even if our decision negatively impacts our results of operations in the short term. Our philosophy of putting students first may cause us to make decisions that could negatively impact our relationships with publishers, colleges, and brands, whose interests may not always be aligned with ours or those of our students. Our decisions may not result in the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our level of student satisfaction and engagement, business, and results of operations could be harmed. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we are or may be involved could expose us to monetary damages or limit our ability to operate our business. Currently, we are involved in various legal proceedings, including securities litigation, derivative suits, putative class actions, and other matters described elsewhere herein. We have in the past and may in the future become involved in other private actions, collective actions, investigations, and various other legal proceedings by subscribers, employees, suppliers, competitors, government agencies, stockholders, or others. The results of any such litigation, investigations, and other legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and expensive. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, damage our reputation, require significant amounts of management time, and divert significant resources. If any of these legal proceedings were to be determined adversely to us, or we were to enter into a settlement arrangement, we could be exposed to monetary damages or limits on our ability to operate our business in the way that it is currently operated, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we are not able to manage the growth of our business both in terms of scale and complexity, our business could be adversely affected. As we grow, the operations and technology infrastructure we use to manage and account for our operations will become more complex, and managing these aspects of our business will become more challenging. Acquisitions of new companies, products, and services create integration risk, while developing and enhancing products and services involves significant time, labor, and expense as well as other challenges, including managing the length of the development cycle, entering new markets, regulatory compliance, evolution of sales and marketing, and protecting proprietary rights. Any future expansion will likely place significant demand on our resources, capabilities and systems, and we may need to develop new processes and procedures and expand our infrastructure to respond to these demands. If we are not able to manage the growth of our business, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues as anticipated or recover any associated acquisition or development costs, and our business could be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Our business is seasonal, and disruptions during peak periods can make, and have made, our operating results difficult to predict. Revenues from Subscription Services are primarily recognized ratably over the subscription term, which has generally resulted in our highest revenues and profitability in the fourth quarter as it reflects more days of the academic year. We typically experience our greatest number of subscriber acquisitions during the last two weeks of August and first two weeks of September and to a lesser degree in January and February. The increased volume of subscribers during these limited periods of time means that any shortfalls or disruptions in our operations during these peak periods will have a disproportionately large impact on our revenues. Additionally, our students could become dissatisfied with such delays and discontinue their use of our service, which could adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of this seasonality, which corresponds to the academic calendar, our revenues may fluctuate significantly quarter to quarter depending upon the timing of where we are in our rush cycle and sequential quarter-over-quarter comparisons of our net revenues and operating results are not likely to be meaningful. In addition, shifting enrollments could impact the seasonality of our business and further make our results of operations difficult to predict. Risks Related to Our Industry Government regulation of education and student information is evolving, and unfavorable developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to deliver course content to students enrolled in Chegg Skills (formerly Thinkful) skills-based learning programs may be subject to state oversight including regulatory approvals and licensure for the course content, the faculty members teaching the content, and the recruiting, admissions, and marketing activities associated with the business. Chegg Skills' efforts to obtain necessary approvals and licenses began prior to our acquisition of the business and continues following the acquisition. We monitor changes to the state regulatory requirements applicable to our business activities, including Chegg Skills; however, if we do not obtain the appropriate licenses or address evolving state requirements, it may result in governmental or regulatory proceedings or actions by private litigants, which could potentially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business may also be subject to laws specific to students, such as the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the Delaware Higher Education Privacy Act, and a California statute which restricts the access by postsecondary educational institutions of prospective students social media account information. Compliance requires, without limitation, making disclosures, obtaining consents, and restrictions on transferring data for which we may in the future need to build further infrastructure to support. We cannot guarantee that we or our acquired companies have been or will be fully compliant in every jurisdiction, due to lack of clarity concerning how existing laws and regulations governing educational institutions affect our business and lengthy governmental compliance process timelines. Moreover, as the education industry continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state, and foreign agencies becomes more likely. For example, California adopted the Student Online Personal Information Protection Act which prohibits operators of online services used for K-12 school purposes from using or sharing student personal information, Illinois adopted the Student Online Personal Protection Act which went into effect on July 1, 2021 and regulates how we collect and process data, and Colorado adopted House Bill 16-1423 designed to protect the use of student personal data in elementary and secondary school. These acts do not apply to general audience Internet websites but it is unclear how these acts will be interpreted and the breadth of services that will be restricted by them. Other states may adopt similar statutes. Additionally, for-profit postsecondary institutions, many of which provide course offerings predominantly online, remain under intense regulatory and other scrutiny. Allegations of abuse of federal financial aid funds and other statutory violations against for-profit higher education companies, even if unfounded, could negatively impact our opportunity to succeed due to increased regulation or decreased demand for our offerings. Certain jurisdictions have also adopted statutes, such as California Education Code 66400, which prohibit the preparation or sale of material that should reasonably be known will be submitted for academic credit. These laws and regulations are directed at enterprises selling term papers, theses, dissertations, and the like, which we do not offer, and were not designed for services like ours which are designed to help students understand the relevant subject matter. Although we will continue to work with academic institutions to enforce our honor code and otherwise discourage students from misusing our services, other jurisdictions (including international jurisdictions) may adopt similar or broader versions of these types of laws and regulations, or the interpretation of the existing or future laws and regulations may impact whether they are cited against us or where we can offer our services. 24 Table of Contents The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in the use of the Internet particularly for educational services, including laws limiting the content and learning programs that we can offer, and the audiences that we can offer that content to, may decrease demand for our service offerings and increase our cost of doing business. Future regulations, or changes in laws and regulations or their existing interpretations or applications, could also hinder our operational flexibility, raise compliance costs, and result in additional historical or future liabilities for us, resulting in adverse impacts on our business and our results of operations. Similarly, the adoption of any laws or regulations affecting the ability of service providers to periodically charge consumers for, among other things, recurring subscription payments, such as the Restore Online Shoppers Confidence Act, may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislation or regulation regarding the foregoing, or changes to existing legislation or regulation governing subscription payments, are being considered in many U.S. States. We are and have been in the past, and may be in the future, the subject of investigations, inquiries, and claims under such laws or regulations, including from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). As the regulatory framework for machine learning, artificial intelligence, and automated decision making evolves, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected by related laws or regulations. It is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted in the U.S. (at the federal or state level) or in non-U.S. jurisdictions, or that existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in ways that would affect the operation of our business, including our learning platform and the ways in which we use artificial intelligence and machine learning technology. We may not always be able to anticipate how regulators will apply existing laws to AI, predict how new legal frameworks will develop to address AI, or otherwise respond to these frameworks as they are still rapidly evolving. While we expect and plan for new laws, regulations, and standards to be adopted over time that will be directly applicable to the Internet and to our student-focused activities, any existing or new legislation applicable to our business could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations and potential penalties or fees for non-compliance, and could negatively impact the growth in the use of the Internet for educational purposes and for our services in particular. We may also run the risk of retroactive application of new laws to our business practices that could result in liability or losses. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to change previous regulatory schemes or choose to regulate transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified, and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Colleges and certain governments may restrict online access or access to our website, which could lead to the loss of or slowing of growth in our student user base and their level of engagement with our platform. The growth of our business and our brand depends on the ability of students to access the Internet and the products and services available on our website, in particular in non-U.S. countries. Colleges that provide students with access to the Internet either through on-campus computer terminals or Internet access points on campus could block or restrict access to our website, content, or services or the Internet generally for a number of reasons, including security, confidentiality, regulatory concerns, or if they believe our products or services contradict or violate their policies. If governments or colleges modify their laws or policies, or choose to apply laws or policies, in ways that are detrimental to the growth of our student user base or in ways that make it harder for students to use our website, the overall growth in our student user base would slow, student engagement would decrease and we would lose revenues. Any reduction in the number of students directed to our website would harm our business and results of operations. If we are required to discontinue certain of our current marketing activities, our ability to attract new students may be adversely affected. Laws or regulations may be enacted which restrict or prohibit use of emails or similar marketing activities that we currently rely on. For example: CAN-SPAM regulates unsolicited commercial emails and imposes civil and criminal penalties for abusive practices; the FTC imposes penalties on companies for misleading and deceptive marketing practices; TCPA restricts telemarketing and the use of automated telephone equipment; and CCPA requires us to make certain disclosures regarding our marketing practices, allows consumers to opt-out of certain data sharing practices. Newly enacted laws such CDPA and CPA will place additional restrictions on our marketing practices. Notwithstanding existing laws, we may discontinue use or support of these activities if we become concerned that students or potential students deem them intrusive, or they otherwise adversely affect our reputation, goodwill and brand. If our marketing activities are curtailed, our ability to attract new students may be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents We are subject to U.S. trade control laws that may restrict growth prospects and impose liability if we are non-compliant. As a U.S. company with U.S. origin software applications, we are required to comply with U.S. trade controls. Our activities are subject to U.S. economic sanctions laws and regulations administered by the Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), which prohibit most transactions with embargoed jurisdictions or prohibited parties without a specific or general license from OFAC. Additionally, the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) administers the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), which restrict exports of software subject to the EAR to embargoed countries and prohibited parties. Although we have taken precautions to prevent our platform, services and software applications from being provided in embargoed jurisdictions and to prohibited parties, and we continue to enhance our policies and procedures relating to sanctions and export compliance, we may not be able to prevent all transactions that are noncompliant with U.S. trade controls. Sanctions and export violations can result in significant fines or penalties, as well as reputational harm and loss of business. Our customers outside of the United States generated approximately 13% of our net revenues during the year ended December 31, 2024, and our growth strategy includes further expanding our operations and customer base across all major global markets. An escalation in sanctions or export controls against regions where we operate, or the issuance of new sanctions designations or export restrictions against individuals and entities located in various regions, could result in decreased ability to provide our platform, services and software applications to existing or potential customers. Any limitation on our ability to operate in various global markets could adversely affect our business performance and growth prospects. Risks Related to Taxes and Accounting Matters We may be subject to greater than anticipated liabilities for income, property, sales, and other taxes, and any successful action by federal, state, foreign, or other authorities to collect additional taxes could adversely harm our business. We are subject to regular review and audit by both U.S. federal and state and foreign tax authorities and such jurisdictions may assess additional taxes against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals and could have a negative effect on our financial position and results of operations. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing and allocating income from our intercompany transactions, which could increase our worldwide effective income tax rate. We collect sales taxes in all U.S. states with a sales tax and most local jurisdictions on our sales, rentals, and digital services sold through our commerce system including sales and rentals on behalf of our third-party publishers. In June 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. et al ruled that a state can require an online retailer with no in-state property or personnel to collect and remit sales and use tax on sales made to the states residents. It is possible that such taxes could be assessed by certain states retroactively for periods before the Wayfair decision on acquired products that are not sold through our commerce system. Any successful action by federal, state, foreign or other authorities to impose or collect additional income tax or compel us to collect and remit additional sales, use, value-added or similar taxes, either retroactively, prospectively or both, could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate as a result of new U.S. and worldwide tax laws and our interpretations of those new tax laws, which are subject to significant judgments and estimates. The ongoing effects of the new tax laws and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of new tax laws. New tax laws could have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes once we release our valuation allowance. Due to the complexities involved in applying the provisions of new tax legislation, we may make reasonable estimates of the effects in our financial statements. As we collect and prepare necessary data and interpret the new tax legislation, we may make adjustments that could affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. Our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates formulated by our management. Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare our consolidated financial statements. The accounting standards that we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require us to make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. We make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters including revenue recognition and deferred revenue, impairment of acquired intangible assets and other long-lived assets, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, share-based compensation 26 Table of Contents expense, and (provision for) benefit from income taxes. These estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require us to make subjective and complex judgments. Although we believe we have the experience and processes to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reasonably dependable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and could result in the reversal of previously recognized amounts. If we used different estimates and assumptions or used different methods to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and reported results of operations. For more information about our critical accounting policies and use of estimates, see Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies, Significant Judgments and Estimates. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success and ability to compete depends in part on our intellectual property and our other proprietary business information. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants, and third parties with whom we have relationships to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. However, we may be unable to secure intellectual property protection for all of our technology and methodologies or the steps we take to enforce our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. If the protection of our intellectual property and proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to customers and potential customers may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract customers may be adversely affected. Third parties may challenge any patents, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property and proprietary rights owned or held by us. Third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe, misappropriate, or otherwise violate our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and other proprietary rights and we may not be able to prevent infringement, misappropriation, or other violations. Any attempt by us to prevent or address such violations may involve substantial expense to us. Additionally, if we fail to protect our domain names, it could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for students to find our website, our content, and our services. If we pursue litigation to assert our intellectual property or proprietary rights, an adverse decision could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property or proprietary rights, limit the value of our intellectual property or proprietary rights, or otherwise negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are a party to a number of third-party intellectual property license agreements. For example, we have entered into agreements with textbook publishers that provide access to textbook questions and other content for our Chegg Study subscription service. We cannot guarantee that the third-party intellectual property we license will not be licensed to our competitors or others in our industry. In the future, we may want or need to obtain additional licenses or renew existing license agreements. We cannot predict whether other license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms, or at all. For example, our license agreements with multiple textbook publishers, including Pearson Education, Inc. expired or terminated without renewal. Any failure to obtain or renew such third-party intellectual property license agreements on commercially competitive terms could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Misuse of our platform and content, including digital piracy and improper sharing and misappropriation of user credentials, may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. A substantial portion of our revenue comes from our Subscription Services and the distribution of our educational content to our paid subscribers through our learning platform. Our content has been subject to unauthorized copying and widespread digital dissemination without an economic return to us. Some students may misuse our products and services in ways that violate our Terms of Use, our Honor Code, other company policies, applicable laws, or the code of conduct at their educational institutions. We have experienced improper sharing and misappropriation of user credentials, allowing for parties to access content and services that they have not paid for. Through such misuse of our platform and content, students may be able to access our offerings for free or at a reduced cost relative to our paid subscription, which has and may continue to negatively impact our ability to attract students to, and retain students on, our platform. The impact of misuse of our platform and content on our revenues and subscriptions is hard to quantify, but we believe that illegal copying and dissemination of our content, improper sharing and misappropriation of user credentials, and other forms of unauthorized activity have had a substantial negative impact on our revenues and subscriptions. Also, despite the potential benefits of AI technology, the advancement of AI may increase certain risks and adverse impacts associated with misuse of our content, including the development of AI 27 Table of Contents applications that may facilitate piracy and new forms of intellectual property infringement through the unauthorized reproduction of copyrighted content to train AI applications and to create unauthorized derivative works. If we fail to obtain appropriate relief through the judicial process or the complete enforcement of judicial decisions issued in our favor (or if judicial decisions are not in our favor) or fail to develop effective means of protecting our content and enforcing our intellectual property rights, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we become subject to liability for the Internet content that we publish or that is uploaded to our websites by students or other users, our results of operations could be adversely affected. As a publisher and distributor of online content, including content uploaded by both by Chegg itself and by our users, we face potential liability for claims related to intellectual property rights including copyright and trademark infringement, rights of publicity or privacy, defamation, personal injury torts, laws regulating hate speech or other types of content, online safety, consumer protection, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we publish or distribute. In addition, the applicability and scope of these and other laws and regulations, as interpreted by the courts, remain uncertain and could be interpreted in ways that harm our business. For example, we rely on statutory safe harbors, like those set forth in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act in the U.S. and the E-Commerce Directive in Europe, to protect against liability. Legislation or court rulings affecting these safe harbors may adversely affect us and may impose significant operational challenges. There are legislative proposals and pending litigation in the U.S. (such as Gonzalez v. Google), EU, and around the world that could diminish or eliminate safe harbor protection for websites and online platforms. We have in the past and may in the future receive communications containing allegations of infringement, which we assess on a case-by-case basis. We may elect not to respond to the communication if we believe it is without merit or we may try to resolve disputes out-of-court by removing content or services we offer or paying licensing or other fees. If we fail to resolve such disputes, litigation may result. For example, we have been subject to lawsuits alleging copyright infringement. Litigation to defend these claims could be costly, divert our technical and management personnel, render us unable to use our current website or to market our service or sell our products and therefore harm our results of operations. We may not be adequately insured to cover claims of these types or indemnified for all liability that may be imposed on us. Any adverse publicity resulting from actual or potential litigation may also materially and adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. We maintain content usage review systems that, through a combination of manual and automated blocks, monitor for and make us aware of potentially infringing content on our platform. Nevertheless, claims may continue to be brought and threatened against us for negligence, intellectual property infringement, or other theories and there is no guarantee that we will be able to resolve any such claims quickly and without damage to our business, our reputation or our operations. From time to time, we have been subject to copyright infringement claims, some of which we have settled. While these settlements have not had a material impact on our financial condition, we may be subject to similar lawsuits in the future and the outcome of any such lawsuits may not be favorable to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Changes in or our failure to comply with the requirements for eligibility for the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) safe harbors could harm our business. The DMCA has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for caching or hosting or for listing or linking to, content or third-party websites that include materials or other content that infringe copyrights, provided we comply with the strict statutory requirements of the DMCA. The applications and interpretations of the statutory requirements of the DMCA are evolving and may be modified by court rulings and industry practice. Accordingly, if we fail to comply with such statutory requirements or if the interpretations of the DMCA change, we may be subject to potential liability for caching or hosting, or for listing or linking to, content or third-party websites that include materials or other content that infringe copyrights. The safe harbors available under the DMCA can limit liability for copyright infringement in the U.S., but they do not limit our liability for infringement of other intellectual property or proprietary rights, they do not apply outside the U.S., and they do not prevent or address requests for injunctive relief. Any determination in litigation that a DMCA safe harbor does not shield us from liability could negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property claims, which are costly to defend and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, third parties have alleged and are likely to allege in the future that we or our business infringes, misappropriates, or otherwise violates their intellectual property or proprietary rights beyond those circumstances discussed in 28 Table of Contents other risk factors contained in this Section, Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property. Many companies, including various non-practicing entities or patent trolls, devote significant resources to developing or acquiring patents that could affect aspects of our business. Our patent portfolio may provide little or no deterrence in any litigation involving non-practicing entities or other adverse patent owners that have no relevant solution revenue, as we would not be able to assert our patents against such entities or individuals. For instance, on November 5, 2018, a non-practicing entity (NPE) filed an action against us in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York captioned NetSoc, LLC v. Chegg, Inc., Civil Action No. 1:18-CV-10262-RAC (the NetSoc Action). While we intend to vigorously defend any intellectual property claims, our technologies may not be able to withstand all third-party claims or rights against their use. The costs of supporting such litigation and disputes are considerable, and there can be no assurances that a favorable outcome will be obtained. We also may be required to settle such litigation and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. The terms of any settlement or judgment may require us to cease some or all of our operations and/or pay substantial amounts to the other party. Additionally, because patent applications can take years to issue and are often afforded confidentiality for some period of time, there may currently be pending applications, unknown to us, that later result in issued patents that could cover our technology and there is also a risk that we could adopt a technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, which technology would infringe a third-party patent once that patent is issued. Moreover, in a patent infringement claim against us, we may assert, as a defense, that we do not infringe the relevant patent claims, that the patent is invalid or both. The strength of our defenses will depend on the patents asserted, the interpretation of these patents, and our ability to invalidate the asserted patents. However, we could be unsuccessful in advancing non-infringement and/or invalidity arguments in our defense. In the United States, issued patents enjoy a presumption of validity, and the party challenging the validity of a patent claim must present clear and convincing evidence of invalidity, which is a high burden of proof. Conversely, the patent owner need only prove infringement by a preponderance of the evidence, which is a lower burden of proof. Some aspects of our technology include open-source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open-source licenses could harm our business. We use open source software in connection with certain of our products and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute or use open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Data Privacy The compromise of our information technology systems or data, including through computer malware, viruses, hacking, phishing attacks, spamming and other security incidents, could harm our business and results of operations. We process personal data regarding various individuals, including students, tutors, educators, and our employees, as well as other sensitive data, including intellectual property and confidential and proprietary business information. We, and our service providers and other third parties upon which we rely, are subject to a variety of evolving security threats. Such threats are prevalent and continue to rise, are increasingly difficult to detect, and come from a variety of sources, including traditional computer hackers, threat actors, hacktivists, organized criminal threat actors, personnel (such as through theft or misuse), sophisticated nation states, and nation-state-supported actors. For example, severe ransomware attacks are becoming increasingly prevalent. Extortion payments may alleviate the negative impact of a ransomware attack, but we may be unwilling or unable to make such payments due to, for example, applicable laws or regulations prohibiting such payments. Additionally, nation-state actors are expected to continue to engage in cyber-attacks for geopolitical reasons and in conjunction with military conflicts and defense activities. During times of war and other major conflicts, we, our service providers and other third parties upon which we rely, may be vulnerable to a heightened risk of these attacks. Furthermore, remote work has become more common and has increased risks to our information technology systems and data, as more of our employees, as well as employees of our service providers and other third parties on which we rely, utilize network connections, computers and devices outside our premises or network, including while working at home, while in transit and in public locations. 29 Table of Contents Future or past business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) could also expose us to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities systems and technologies. Moreover, we rely heavily on SaaS enterprise resource planning systems to conduct our e-commerce and financial transactions and reporting. In addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. Our reliance on these and other third-party service providers and technologies to operate critical business systems to process sensitive information in a variety of contexts and to otherwise assist in the operation of our business increases our risk exposure as our ability to monitor these third parties information security practices is limited, and these third parties may not have adequate information security measures in place. In addition, supply-chain attacks have increased in frequency and severity, and we cannot guarantee that third parties infrastructure in our supply chain or our third-party partners supply chains have not been compromised. If our data or security measures, or the security measures of our service providers, other third parties upon which we may rely or companies we may acquire, are compromised, disrupted or breached or are perceived to have been compromised, disrupted or breached, including as a result of any of the aforementioned threats or other cyberattacks, online or offline fraud, other intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error or malfeasance, social-engineering attacks, credential harvesting, ransomware attacks, supply-chain attacks, software bugs, server malfunctions, software or hardware failures, loss of data or other information technology assets, adware, telecommunications failures, earthquakes, fires, floods or other similar threats or activities (including those Chegg has experienced in the past, as discussed below), we could face a variety of adverse consequences. For example, we could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to address the problem and could face or be subject to litigation (including class action litigation such as those matters identified below) and enforcement actions, investigations, audits, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, data processing restrictions, indemnity obligations, damages, penalties and costs for remediation, damage our reputation or brand, interruptions in our operations (including availability of data), and similar harms. Security incidents, including those Chegg has experienced in the past, as identified below, and attendant consequences may cause customers to stop using our services, deter new customers from using our services, and negatively impact our ability to grow and operate our business. Additionally, applicable data privacy and security obligations may require us to notify relevant stakeholders, including regulators and impacted individuals, of security incidents. Such disclosures are costly, and the disclosure or the failure to comply with such requirements could lead to additional adverse consequences. Our contracts may not contain limitations of liability, and even where they do, there can be no assurance that limitations of liability in our contracts are sufficient to protect us from liabilities, damages, or claims related to our data privacy and security obligations. We cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be adequate or sufficient to protect us from or to mitigate liabilities arising out of our privacy and security practices, that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that such coverage will pay future claims. Any sensitive information (including confidential, competitive, proprietary, or personal data) that we input into a third-party generative AI/machine learning (ML) platform could be leaked or disclosed to others, including if sensitive information is used to train the third parties AI/ML model. Additionally, where an AI/ML model ingests personal data and makes connections using such data, those technologies may reveal other personal or sensitive information generated by the model. Moreover, AI/ML models may create flawed, incomplete, or inaccurate outputs, some of which may appear correct. This may happen if the inputs that the model relied on were inaccurate, incomplete or flawed (including if a bad actor poisons the AI/ML with bad inputs or logic), or if the logic of the AI/ML is flawed (a so-called hallucination). We may use AI/ML outputs to make certain decisions. Due to these potential inaccuracies or flaws, the model could be biased and could lead us to make decisions that could bias certain individuals (or classes of individuals), and adversely impact their rights, employment, and ability to obtain certain pricing, products, services, or benefits. We may expend significant resources or modify our business activities to try to protect against threats to our security or systems. However, while we have implemented security measures designed to protect against security incidents, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective. We have not always been able in the past and may be unable in the future to detect vulnerabilities in our information technology systems because such threats and techniques change frequently, are often sophisticated in nature, and may not be detected until after a security incident has occurred. We have experienced security incidents in the past. For example, in April 2018, an unauthorized individual gained access to and exfiltrated user data for approximately 40 million users of chegg.com and certain other services in our family of brands, including EasyBib, (the 2018 Data Incident). The types of information that may have been obtained by the threat actor included a Chegg users name, email address, shipping address, Chegg username, and Chegg password. For a small percentage of the impacted users who had entered details into our scholarship search service, the incident also exposed information about additional personal characteristics, including dates of birth, parents income range, sexual orientation, religious denomination, heritage and information concerning disabilities. We have faced other claims for allegedly misleading statements regarding our security measures to protect users' data and related internal