Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations or in other filings by Chegg with the SEC, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that are not currently believed by us to be material may also harm our business operations and financial results. Because of the following risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and results of operations, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Summary of Risk Factors Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our common stock speculative or risky. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this risk factor summary, and other risks that we face, can be found below under the heading Risk Factors and should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. The full effect of the COVID-19 pandemic is uncertain and cannot be predicted. The COVID-19 pandemic could worsen, or its effects may be prolonged, which could lead to a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our limited operating history and evolving digital offerings make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and predict results of operations. Our future revenue depends on our ability to continue to attract new students, which have an inherently high rate of turnover primarily due to graduation. If search engines methodologies are modified or our search result page rankings decline for other reasons, student engagement with our website could decline, which may harm our business and results of operations. We face competition in aspects of our business, and we expect such competition to increase. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We rely on AWS and other third-party software and service providers to provide systems, storage, and services for our website and any disruption of such services or a material change to our arrangements could adversely affect our business. Our wide variety of accepted payment methods subjects us to third-party payment processing-related risks, including risks associated with credit card fraud. Our business is seasonal, and increased risk from disruption during peak periods makes our operating results difficult to predict. 10 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s We depend on mobile app stores and operating systems to grow our student user base and their engagement with our learning platform. If we fail to convince brands of the benefits of advertising on our learning platform, or if platforms such as Google Chrome, Safari, or Firefox limit our access to advertising and marketing audiences, or the data required to effectively reach those audiences, our business could be harmed. Government regulation of education and student information is evolving, and unfavorable developments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Colleges and certain governments may restrict online access or access to our website, which could lead to the loss of or slowing of growth in our student user base and their level of engagement with our platform. Our international operations, and the expansion thereof, subject us to increased challenges, risks, and costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we become subject to liability for the Internet content that we publish or that is uploaded to our websites by students, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Computer malware, viruses, hacking, phishing attacks, and spamming could harm our business and results of operations. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. We may be subject to short selling strategies that may drive down the market price of our common stock . Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The full effect of the COVID-19 pandemic is uncertain and cannot be predicted. The COVID-19 pandemic could worsen, or its effects may be prolonged, which could lead to a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The full effects of the COVID-19 pandemic cannot be predicted because of many uncertainties, including the deployment and long-term efficacy of vaccines and ongoing infection rate surges. Governments and businesses have taken mitigation actions, including school and business closures, travel restrictions, and quarantines. These actions could cause a general slowdown in the U.S. and global economy, adversely impact our customers and partners, and disrupt our operations. While our business was not materially and adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic during the year ended December 31, 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic may still have a material adverse impact on our business and result of operations in the near-term. We are continuously monitoring our business and operations to take appropriate actions to mitigate risks arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, but there can be no guarantee that the actions we take will be successful. Should the situation worsen or not improve, or our steps for risk mitigation fail, our business, liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, stock price and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. All of our employees are currently working remotely because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The health of our employees is of primary concern and at this time and we cannot reasonably predict when our employees can return to our offices. We may need to take further precautionary measures to protect the health of our employees. Additionally, our management team is focused on ongoing planning for and mitigating the risks of COVID-19, which may reduce their time for other initiatives. The COVID-19 pandemic may lead to employee inefficiencies, operational and cybersecurity risks, logistics disruptions, and other circumstances which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. A significant number of U.S. and international colleges ceased in-person classes during 2020 in an attempt to ensure the safety of their students. Should the COVID-19 pandemic continue, colleges may face reduced enrollment and reduced income. Further, if the COVID-19 pandemic continues to limit the functionality of colleges and universities, they may not have the financial resources to withstand prolonged declines in enrollment, diminishing revenues and even potential shutdowns and may be forced to close. Additionally, uncertainties surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic have forced colleges to pay heightened attention to alternative methods of instruction, including online learning and related concerns, such as proctoring exams. This increase in attention and demand may lead to additional scrutiny from the faculty of more traditional institutions, such as colleges or universities. 11 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s Our limited operating history and evolving offerings make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and predict results of operations. Since July 2010, we have focused on expanding our offerings beyond textbooks, in many instances through the acquisition of other companies, such as Mathway and Thinkful. Our newer products and services, such as skills-based learning, may not be integrated effectively into our business, achieve or sustain profitability, or achieve market acceptance at levels sufficient to justify our investment. Because we have a limited operating history, in particular operating a fully digital platform, and the market for our products and services is rapidly evolving, it is difficult to predict our results of operations, particularly with respect to our newer offerings, and the ultimate market size for our products and services. If the market for a comprehensive learning platform does not develop as we expect, or if we fail to address the needs of this market, our business and prospects could be harmed. We face risks, expenses, and difficulties related to our specific business model, as well as those typically encountered by companies in their early stage of development, including the risks more fully described throughout this Risk Factors section as well as our ability to successfully accomplish the following, among other items: enhance and expand our Chegg Services offerings including developing new products and services; develop and pursue a profitable business model and pricing strategy; acquire complementary products and services to expand and enhance our offerings; attract and retain students and increase their engagement with both Chegg Services and Required Materials; expand our offerings internationally; prevent students from sharing accounts and cheating with other students; and develop and scale a high-performance technology infrastructure to efficiently handle increased usage by students, especially during peak periods prior to each academic term. We anticipate that our ability to accurately forecast financial results for future periods will be most limited at the time we present our second quarter financial results, which will generally occur midsummer and precede the fall rush. Additionally, we expect our results of operations to fluctuate in the future based on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control and difficult to predict. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be a good indicator of our future or long-term performance. The following factors may affect us from period-to-period and may affect our long-term performance: our ability to attract, retain and engage students with our offerings; changes to search engines and application marketplaces that drive traffic to our platform; the rate of adoption of our offerings; price competition and our ability to react appropriately to such competition; changes by our competitors to their product and service offerings, including price and materials; our ability to integrate acquired businesses, including personnel; our ability to identify and target sales of complementary products and services to our students; changes in demand and pricing for print textbooks and eTextbooks; the ability of our logistics partner to efficiently manage and operate fulfillment; disruptions to our and our fulfillment partners informational technology systems, particularly during peak periods; government regulations, in particular regarding privacy and advertising and taxation policies; operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business; and general macroeconomic conditions and economic conditions. We have encountered and will continue to encounter these risks and if we do not manage them successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our future revenue depends on our ability to continue to attract new students, which have an inherently high rate of turnover primarily due to graduation. The growth of our business depends on our ability to attract new students to use our products and services and to increase the level of engagement by existing students with our learning platform. The substantial majority of our revenues depends on small transactions made by a widely dispersed student population with an inherently high rate of turnover primarily as a result of graduation. The rate at which we expand our student user base and increase student engagement with our learning platform may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including, among others: 12 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s our ability to engage students with our suite of Chegg Services and to introduce new products and services that are favorably received by students; our ability to produce compelling and engaging services, mobile applications and websites for students; our ability and our fulfillment partners ability to consistently provide students with a convenient, high- quality experience for selecting, receiving, and returning print textbooks; our ability to accurately forecast and respond to student demand for print textbooks; the pricing of our physical textbooks and eTextbooks for rental or sale in relation to other alternatives; the rate of adoption of eTextbooks and our ability to capture a significant share of that market; changes in student spending levels or the number of students attending college; and the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, including generating word-of-mouth referrals. If we do not attract more students or if students do not increase their level of engagement with our platform, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected or decline. The student demographic is characterized by rapidly changing tastes, preferences, behavior, brand loyalty, and price sensitivity. Developing an enduring business model to serve this population is particularly challenging. Attracting new students depends not only on investment in our brand and our marketing efforts, but also on the perceived value of our products and services versus alternatives. If our efforts to satisfy our existing student user base are not successful or become less effective, or if the cost of such efforts were to significantly increase, we may not be able to attract new students as successfully or efficiently and, as a result, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, even if we succeed in establishing brand awareness and loyalty, we may be unable to maintain and grow our student user base if we cannot offer competitive prices for our products and services or adequately prevent unauthorized account sharing of our subscription program services. If we fail to expand our user base, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. If search engines methodologies are modified or our search result page rankings decline for other reasons, student engagement with our website could decline, which may harm our business and results of operations. We depend in part on various search engines to direct a significant amount of traffic to our website. Similarly, we depend on mobile app stores such as Google Play Store and the Apple App Store to allow students to locate and download Chegg mobile applications that enable our services. Our ability to maintain the number of students directed to our website is not entirely within our control. Our competitors SEO efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, or search engines could revise their methodologies to improve their search results, which could adversely affect the placement of our search result page ranking. If search engine companies modify their search algorithms in ways that are detrimental to our search result page ranking or in ways that make it harder for students to find our website, or if our competitors SEO efforts are more successful than ours, overall growth could slow, including the number of subscribers to Chegg Services, student engagement could decrease, and fewer students may use our platform. Our website has experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Any reduction in the number of students directed to our website could harm our business and results of operations. We face competition in aspects of our business, and we expect such competition to increase. Our products and services compete for students and we expect such competition to increase . Chegg Services faces competition based on the particular offering. For Chegg Study, our competitors primarily include platforms that provide study materials and online instructional systems, such as Course Hero, Quizlet, Khan Academy, and Bartleby. For Chegg Writing, we primarily face competition from other citation generating and grammar and plagiarism services such as Grammarly. For Chegg Math Solver and Mathway, we face competition from other equation solver services such as Photomath and Symbolab. For Thinkful, we face competition from other online learning platforms and online skills accelerator courses both in the direct-to-consumer category, including General Assembly, Galvanize, Inc., Flatiron School, Codecademy, DataCamp, and Lambda, Inc., as well as white-label and co-branded providers who compete for adult learners through third party institutions, including 2U, Inc., Simplilearn, and Kenzie Academy. Additionally, the market for textbooks is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. We face competition from college bookstores, some of which are operated by Follett and Barnes & Noble Education, online marketplaces such as Amazon.com, providers of eTextbooks, as well as various private textbook rental websites. Many students purchase from multiple textbook providers, are highly price sensitive, and can easily shift spending from one provider or format to another. As a consequence, our Required Materials product line, which includes eTextbooks, competes primarily on price and further on 13 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s selection and functionality and compatibility of the eTextbook Reader we utilize across a wide variety of desktop and mobile devices. Our industry is evolving rapidly and some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies, less stringent standards for user-uploaded content, and devote substantially more resources to marketing, website, and systems development than we do. In addition, a variety of business models are being pursued for the provision of print textbooks, some of which may be more profitable or successful than ours. We also face risks from strategic alliances by other education ecosystem participants. New competition may come from companies with greater brand recognition, and have significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do. We may, in the future, establish alliances or relationships with other competitors or potential competitors. To the extent such alliances are terminated or new alliances and relationships are established, our business could be harmed. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have experienced significant net losses since our incorporation in July 2005, and we may continue to experience net losses in the future. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $6.2 million, $9.6 million, and $14.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $422.6 million. We expect to make significant investments in the development and expansion of our business and, as a result, our cost of revenues and operating expenses may increase. We may not succeed in increasing our revenues sufficiently to offset these higher expenses, and our efforts to grow the business may be more expensive than we anticipate. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including slowing demand for our products and services, increasing competition, decreased spending on education, and other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, challenges, complications, delays, and other unknown factors, many of which are exacerbated by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, as we pursue our business plan. While Chegg Services revenues have grown in recent periods, this growth may not be sustainable and we may not be able to achieve profitability. To achieve profitability, we may need to change our operating infrastructure, scale our operations more efficiently, reduce our costs, or implement changes in our product and services offerings. If we fail to timely implement these changes or we cannot implement them for any reason, including due to factors beyond our control, our business may suffer. If we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase such profitability. If our efforts to build strong brands are not successful, we may not be able to grow our student user base, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We believe our brands are a key asset of our business. Developing, protecting, and enhancing our Chegg brands are critical to expanding our student user base and increasing student engagement. Strong brands also help to counteract the significant student turnover we experience from year to year as students graduate, and differentiate us from our competitors. To succeed in our efforts to strengthen our brands identity, we must, among other activities: maintain our reputation as a trusted technology platform and source of content, services, and textbooks for students; maintain and improve the quality of our existing products, services, and technologies; introduce compelling products and services; adapt to changing technologies and changes in the learning environment; protect user data, such as passwords and personally identifiable information; adapt to students rapidly changing tastes, preferences, behavior, and brand loyalties; continue to expand our reach to students in high school, graduate school, and internationally; ensure that the student-posted content to our website is reliable and does not infringe on third-party copyrights or violate other applicable laws, our terms of use, or the ethical codes of those students colleges; protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights; convert and integrate the brands and students that we acquire into the Chegg brand and Chegg.com; and maintain and control the quality of our brand. Our ability to successfully achieve these goals is not entirely within our control and we may not be able to maintain the strength of our brands or do so cost-effectively. Factors that could negatively affect our brands include, among others: changes in student sentiment about the quality or usefulness of our products and services; technical or other problems that prevent us from providing our products and services reliably or otherwise negatively affect the student experience with our products and services; concern from colleges about how students use our content offerings, such as our Expert Questions and Answers service; 14 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s brand conflict between acquired brands and the Chegg brand; student concerns related to privacy and use of data in our products and services; the reputation or products and services of competitive companies; and students misuse of our products and services in ways that violate our terms of services, applicable laws, or the code of conduct at their colleges. We rely on AWS and other third-party software and service providers to provide systems, storage, and services for our website and any disruption of such services or a material change to our arrangements could adversely affect our business. We rely on AWS and other third-party software and service providers to provide systems, storage, and services, including user login authentication, for our website. Our reliance makes us vulnerable to any errors, interruptions, or delays in their operations. Any disruption in the services provided by third-party providers, including AWS, could harm our reputation or brand, cause us to lose subscribers or revenues or incur substantial recovery costs and distract management from operating our business. Further, these third-party software and service providers may experience operational difficulties due to the current COVID-19 pandemic, including increased usage of their software and services. If they cannot adapt to the increase in demand or fail to ensure availability of their software and services, our ability to service users requests may be impacted, which could have an adverse impact on our result of operations. AWS may terminate its agreement with us upon 30 days notice. Upon expiration or termination of our agreement with AWS, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, that are favorable to us, and a transition from one vendor to another vendor could subject us to operational delays and inefficiencies until the transition is complete. Our wide variety of accepted payment methods subjects us to third-party payment processing-related risks, including risks associated with credit card fraud. We accept payments from students using a variety of methods, including credit cards, debit cards, and PayPal. As we offer new payment options to students, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and incidents of fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. For example, we have in the past experienced higher transaction fees from our third-party processors as a result of chargebacks on credit card transactions. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing and information storage of credit cards and debit cards. If these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, our business could be disrupted. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to additional fines and higher transaction fees; lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our students or process electronic funds transfers; or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may experience some loss from fraudulent credit card transactions, including potential liability for not obtaining signatures from students in connection with the use of credit cards. While we do have safeguards in place, we cannot be certain that other fraudulent schemes will not be successful. A failure to adequately control fraudulent transactions could harm our business and results of operations. Our business is seasonal, and increased risk from disruption during peak periods makes our operating results difficult to predict. We derive a portion of our net revenues from print textbook rentals and, to a lesser extent, sale transactions, which occur in large part during short periods of time around the commencement of the fall, winter, and spring academic terms. In particular, we and our partners experience the largest increase in rental and sales volumes during the last two weeks of August and first two weeks of September and to a lesser degree in December and January. The increased volume of orders that we process during these limited periods of time means that any shortfalls or disruptions in our operations during these peak periods will have a disproportionately large impact on our Required Materials revenues. If our distribution partners limited their service or otherwise suffer from business disruptions during these peak periods, we may be required to find alternatives for delivery, which may be more expensive, or we may be unable to deliver textbooks timely. If textbooks are not delivered timely to students, they could become dissatisfied and discontinue their use of our service, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 15 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s Revenues from Chegg Services, print textbooks that we own, and eTextbooks are primarily recognized ratably over the term a student subscribes to our Chegg Services, rents a print textbook or has access to an eTextbook. This has generally resulted in our highest revenues and profitability in the fourth quarter as it reflects more days of the academic year. As a result of this seasonality, which corresponds to the academic calendar, our revenues may fluctuate significantly quarter to quarter depending upon the timing of where we are in our rush cycle and sequential quarter-over-quarter comparisons of our net revenues and operating results are not likely to be meaningful. In addition, should the current COVID-19 pandemic continue to worsen and colleges cannot withstand a prolonged shutdown, we may experience a shift or reduction in enrollments that could impact the seasonality of our business and further make our results of operations difficult to predict. We depend on mobile app stores and operating systems to grow our student user base and their engagement with our learning platform. There is no guarantee that students will use our mobile apps, such as the mobile version of our website, m.chegg.com, Chegg Prep, and Chegg Study, rather than competing products. We are dependent on the interoperability of our mobile apps with popular third-party mobile operating systems such as Google's Android and Apple's iOS, and their placement in popular app stores like the Google Play Store and the Apple App Store, and any changes in such systems that degrade our products functionality or give preferential treatment or app store placement to competitive products could adversely affect the access and usage of our applications on mobile devices. If it is more difficult for students to access and use our apps on their mobile devices, our student growth and engagement levels could be harmed. If we fail to convince brands of the benefits of advertising on our learning platform, or if platforms such as Google Chrome, Safari, or Firefox limit our access to advertising and marketing audiences, or the data required to effectively reach those audiences, our business could be harmed. Our business strategy includes increasing our revenues from brand advertising. Brands may not do business with us, or may reduce their advertising spend with us, if we do not deliver ads, sponsorships, and other commercial content and marketing programs effectively, or if they do not believe that their investment will generate a competitive return relative to other alternatives. Additionally, if platforms such as Google Chrome, Safari, or Firefox, limit our access to or understanding of advertising and marketing audiences, they could reduce our advertising rates and ultimately reduce our revenues from brand advertising. For example, the release of iOS 14 on Apple devices brought with it a number of new changes, including the need for app users to opt in before their identifier for advertisers (IDFA) can be accessed by an app (which is currently expected to come into effect in 2021). Apples IDFA is a string of numbers and letters assigned to Apple devices which advertisers use to identify app users to deliver personalized and targeted advertising. As more users opt out of granting IDFA access, the ability of advertisers to accurately target and measure their advertising campaigns at the user level may become significantly limited and we may experience increased cost per registration. Our ability to grow the number of brands that use our brand advertising, and ultimately to generate advertising revenues, depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control, such as the impact of macroeconomic conditions and legal developments relating to data privacy, advertising, legislation and regulation and litigation. Our core value of putting students first may conflict with the short-term interests of our business. We believe that adhering to our core value of putting students first is essential to our success and in the best interests of our company and the long-term interests of our stockholders. In the past, we have forgone, and in the future we may forgo, short-term revenue opportunities that we do not believe are in the best interests of students, even if our decision negatively impacts our results of operations in the short term. For example, we offer free services to students that require investment by us, such as our Chegg Internships service, to promote a more comprehensive solution. Our philosophy of putting students first may cause us to make decisions that could negatively impact our relationships with publishers, colleges, and brands, whose interests may not always be aligned with ours or those of our students. Our decisions may not result in the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our level of student satisfaction and engagement, business, and results of operations could be harmed. If we are required to discontinue certain of our current marketing activities, our ability to attract new students may be adversely affected. Laws or regulations may be enacted which restrict or prohibit use of emails or similar marketing activities that we currently rely on. For example: the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 and similar laws adopted by a number of states regulate unsolicited commercial emails, create criminal penalties for emails containing fraudulent headers, and control other abusive online marketing practices; 16 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s the FTC has guidelines that impose responsibilities on companies with respect to communications with consumers and impose fines and liability for failure to comply with rules with respect to advertising or marketing practices they may deem misleading or deceptive; the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (the (TCPA) restricts telemarketing and the use of automated telephone equipment. The TCPA limits the use of automatic dialing systems, artificial or prerecorded voice messages, and SMS text messages. It also applies to unsolicited text messages advertising the commercial availability of goods or services. Additionally, a number of states have enacted statutes that address telemarketing, such as do-no call lists and no rebuttal statutes that require the telemarketer to end the call when the consumer indicates that he or she is not interested in the product being sold. Restrictions on telephone marketing, including calls and text messages, are enforced by the FTC, the Federal Communications Commission, state-level regulators and through the availability of statutory damages and class action lawsuits for violations of the TCPA; and the CCPA, which came into effect and became enforceable in 2020. Additionally, although not effective until January 1, 2023, the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA), which expands upon the CCPA, was passed in the recent election on November 3, 2020. The CCPA and CPRA require companies that process information on California residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices, allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties, and provides a private right of action for security breaches. The burdens imposed by the CCPA and CPRA and other similar laws that may be enacted at the federal and state level may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and how we advertise to our users and to incur substantial expenditure to comply. Even if no relevant law or regulation is enacted, we may discontinue use or support of these activities if we become concerned that students or potential students deem them intrusive or they otherwise adversely affect our reputation, goodwill and brand. If our marketing activities are curtailed, our ability to attract new students may be adversely affected. Our business and growth may suffer if we cannot hire and retain key personnel. We depend on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel. In particular, we rely on the contributions of our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Co-Chairperson, Dan Rosensweig. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, meaning they may terminate their employment relationship at any time. If we lose the services of one or more members of our senior management team or other key personnel, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, and retain highly skilled personnel. Qualified individuals are in high demand, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area where our executive offices are located, and if we cannot attract or retain the personnel we need to succeed, our business may suffer. We may need additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available on favorable terms, if at all. Historically, investments in our business have substantially exceeded the cash we have generated from our operations. We have funded our operating losses and capital expenditures through proceeds from equity and debt financings, and cash flow from operations. Although we currently anticipate that our available funds and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for the foreseeable future, we may require additional financing. Additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms when required or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked, or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Government regulation of education and student information is evolving, and unfavorable developments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our ability to deliver course content to students enrolled in Thinkful skills-based learning programs may be subject to state oversight including regulatory approvals and licensure for the course content, the faculty members teaching the content, and the recruiting, admissions, and marketing activities associated with the business. Thinkful's efforts to obtain necessary approvals and licenses began prior to our acquisition of the business and continues following the acquisition. We monitor changes to the state regulatory requirements applicable to our Cheggs business activities, including Thinkful; however, if we do not obtain the appropriate licenses or address evolving state requirements, it may result in governmental or regulatory proceedings or actions by private litigants, which could potentially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 17 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s Our business may also be subject to laws specific to students, such as the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the Delaware Higher Education Privacy Act, and a California statute which restricts the access by postsecondary educational institutions of prospective students social media account information. Compliance levels include obtaining government licenses, disclosures, consents, transfer restrictions, and notice and access provisions for which we may in the future need to build further infrastructure to support. We cannot guarantee that we or our acquired companies prior to our acquisition thereof have been or will be fully compliant in every jurisdiction, due to lack of clarity concerning how existing laws and regulations governing educational institutions affect our business and lengthy governmental compliance process timelines. Moreover, as the education industry continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state, and foreign agencies becomes more likely. Recently, California adopted the Student Online Personal Information Protection Act which prohibits operators of online services used for K-12 school purposes from using or sharing student personal information and Colorado adopted House Bill 16-1423 designed to protect the use of student personal data in elementary and secondary school. These acts do not apply to general audience Internet websites but it is unclear how these acts will be interpreted and the breadth of services that will be restricted by them. Other states may adopt similar statutes. Certain states have also adopted statutes, such as California Education Code 66400, which prohibit the preparation or sale of material that should reasonably be known will be submitted for academic credit. These statutes are directed at enterprises selling term papers, theses, dissertations, and the like, which we do not offer, and were not designed for services like ours which are designed to help students understand the relevant subject matter. Although we will continue to work with academic institutions to enforce our honor code and otherwise discourage students from misusing our services, other states may adopt similar or broader versions of these types of statutes, or the interpretation of the existing or future statutes may impact whether they are cited against us or where we can offer our services. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in the use of the Internet particularly for educational services, including laws limiting the content and learning programs that we can offer, and the audiences that we can offer that content to, may decrease demand for our service offerings and increase our cost of doing business. Future regulations, or changes in laws and regulations or their existing interpretations or applications, could also hinder our operational flexibility, raise compliance costs, and result in additional historical or future liabilities for us, resulting in adverse impacts on our business and our results of operations. While we expect and plan for new laws, regulations, and standards to be adopted over time that will be directly applicable to the Internet and to our student-focused activities, any existing or new legislation applicable to our business could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations and potential penalties or fees for non-compliance, and could negatively impact the growth in the use of the Internet for educational purposes and for our services in particular. We may also run the risk of retroactive application of new laws to our business practices that could result in liability or losses. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to change previous regulatory schemes or choose to regulate transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified, and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business depends on general economic conditions and their effect on spending behavior by students and advertising budgets. Our business is dependent on, among other factors, general economic conditions, which affect student spending and brand advertising. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, state and federal funding levels at colleges across the United States remained below historic levels, which led to increased tuition and decreased amounts of financial aid offered to students. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected federal and state budgets for education and caused significant economic volatility. To the extent that these trends continue or the economy stagnates or worsens, students may elect to not attend colleges and universities and reduce the amount they spend on educational content and textbooks. In addition to decreased spending by students, colleges and brands may reduce their spend on our advertising services. Any of the foregoing may have an adverse effect on our business. 18 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s Colleges and certain governments may restrict online access or access to our website, which could lead to the loss of or slowing of growth in our student user base and their level of engagement with our platform. The growth of our business and our brand depends on the ability of students to access the Internet and the products and services available on our website, in particular in non-U.S. countries. Colleges that provide students with access to the Internet either through on-campus computer terminals or Internet access points on campus could block or restrict access to our website, content, or services or the Internet generally for a number of reasons, including security, confidentiality, regulatory concerns, or if they believe our products or services contradict or violate their policies. If colleges modify their policies in ways that are detrimental to the growth of our student user base or in ways that make it harder for students to use our website, the overall growth in our student user base would slow, student engagement would decrease and we would lose revenues. Any reduction in the number of students directed to our website would harm our business and results of operations. We may be subject to greater than anticipated liabilities for income, property, sales, and other taxes, and any successful action by federal, state, foreign, or other authorities to collect additional taxes could adversely harm our business. We are subject to regular review and audit by both U.S. federal and state and foreign tax authorities and such jurisdictions may assess additional taxes against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals and could have a negative effect on our financial position and results of operations. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing and allocating income from our intercompany transactions, which could increase our worldwide effective income tax rate. We collect sales taxes in all U.S. states with a sales tax and most local jurisdictions on our sales, rentals, and digital services sold through our commerce system including sales and rentals on behalf of our third-party publishers. In June 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. et al ruled that a state can require an online retailer with no in-state property or personnel to collect and remit sales and use tax on sales made to the states residents. It is possible that such taxes could be assessed by certain states retroactively for periods before the Wayfair decision on acquired products that are not sold through our commerce system. Any successful action by federal, state, foreign or other authorities to impose or collect additional income tax or compel us to collect and remit additional sales, use, value-added or similar taxes, either retroactively, prospectively or both, could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards, which could adversely affect our profitability. At December 31, 2020, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards due to prior period losses of approximately $674 million and $511 million, respectively, which if not utilized will begin to expire in 2028 and 2021 for federal and state purposes, respectively. An immaterial portion of the state net operating loss carryforwards expired in 2020. At December 31, 2020, we also had federal tax credit carryforwards of approximately $19.1 million, which if not utilized will begin to expire in 2030, and state tax credit carryforwards of approximately $14.8 million, which do not expire. These net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our profitability. For example, we have net operating loss carryforwards of $26 million related to our previous operations in Kentucky that will expire unused unless we have similar operations in Kentucky. Additionally, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Californias Legislature passed Assembly Bill 85 (A.B. 85), which suspends the use of net operating losses for tax years beginning in 2020, 2021, and 2022 for taxpayers with taxable income of $1.0 million or more before an application of net operating loss. A.B. 85 includes an extended carryover period for the suspended net operating losses with an additional year carryforward for each year of suspension. A.B. 85 also limits the utilization of business incentive tax credits for taxable years 2020, 2021, and 2022, requiring that taxpayers can only claim a maximum of $5.0 million in tax credit on an aggregate basis. The 2017 Tax Act changed both the federal deferred tax value of the net operating loss carryforwards and the rules of utilization of federal net operating loss carryforwards. The 2017 Tax Act lowered the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective for our 2018 financial year. For net operating loss carryforwards generated in years prior to 2018, there is no annual limitation on the utilization and the carryforward period remains at 20 years; net operating loss carryforwards generated in years after 2017 will only be available to offset 80% of future taxable income in any single year but will not expire. However, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act temporarily repealed the 80% taxable income limitation for tax years beginning before January 1, 2021; net operating loss carried forward from 2018 or later to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020 will be subject to the 80% limitation. Also, under the CARES Act, net operating loss arising in 2018, 2019 and 2020 can be carried back five years. 19 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, such as tax credits, in any taxable year may be limited if we experience an ownership change. A Section 382 ownership change generally occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. As a result of prior equity issuances and other transactions in our stock and the stock of acquired companies, we have previously experienced ownership changes under Section 382 and comparable state tax laws. We may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of future issuances and other transactions of our stock. It is possible that any future ownership change could have a material effect on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate as a result of new tax U.S. and worldwide laws, our interpretations of those new tax laws, and final guidance on 2017 Tax Act, which are subject to significant judgments and estimates. The ongoing effects of the new tax laws, 2017 Tax Acts final guidance, and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of new tax laws and final guidance on 2017 Tax Act. The new tax laws and 2017 Tax Acts final guidance will have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes once we release our valuation allowance. Due to the complexities involved in applying the provisions of new tax legislation and 2017 Tax Acts final guidance, we may make reasonable estimates of the effects in our financial statements. As we collect and prepare necessary data and interpret the new tax legislation as well as final guidance on 2017 Tax Act, we may make adjustments that could affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. The 2020 Finance Bill was passed by the Parliament of India as Financial Act with amendments. The 2020 Finance Bill replaced the Dividend Distribution Tax on our distributing India entity with the withholding tax imposed on the U.S. recipient shareholders. As a result of the 2020 Finance Bill, we released $0.3 million of our withholding tax deferred tax liability related to deemed distributions from our entity in India. Our international operations, and the expansion thereof, subject us to increased challenges, risks, and costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have employees in Germany, Israel, and India and we own a minority stake in a learning platform for high school and college students in Brazil. Although today our international operations represent less than 10% of our total consolidated operating expenses, we expect to continue to expand our international operations, and to make our products and services available in more international markets. However, we have a limited operating history in international jurisdictions and expanding our international operations will require considerable management attention and resources to attract talented employees and users. International operations are subject to particular challenges and risks, some of which we may not currently face, including multiple languages, cultures, customs, tax systems, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, regulatory systems, and commercial infrastructures. Further, such operations may exacerbate existing risks, including risks associated with employees, compliance with applicable foreign laws and regulations, protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights, and complying with anti-bribery laws. New international markets may also have educational systems, technology, and online industries that are different, more regulated, or less well developed than those in the United States, and if we cannot address these challenges, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial conditions. Our ability to gain market acceptance in any particular market is uncertain and the distraction of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our earnings are affected by the application of accounting standards and our critical accounting policies, which involve subjective judgments and estimates by our management. Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare our consolidated financial statements. The accounting standards that we use in preparing our financial statements are often complex and require us to make significant estimates and assumptions in interpreting and applying those standards. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. We make critical estimates and assumptions involving accounting matters, including with respect to textbook library, revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets and goodwill, income taxes, and share-based compensation expense. These estimates and assumptions involve matters that are inherently uncertain and require us to make subjective and complex judgments. Although we believe we have the experience and processes to enable us to formulate appropriate assumptions and produce reasonably dependable estimates, these assumptions and estimates may change significantly in the future and could result in the reversal of previously recognized revenues and profit. If we used different estimates and assumptions or used different methods to determine these estimates, our financial results could differ, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and reported results of operations. For more information about our critical accounting policies and use of estimates, 20 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s see Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies, Significant Judgments and Estimates. Risks Related to Growth and Expansion We intend to offer new products and services to students to grow our business. If our efforts are not successful, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to attract and retain students and increase their engagement with our learning platform depends on our ability to connect them with appropriate products, people, or services. Part of our strategy is to offer students new products and services in an increasingly relevant and personalized way. We may develop such products and services independently, by acquisition, or in conjunction with third parties. In the future, we may invest in new products and services and other initiatives, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be successful. The markets for new products and services may be unproven, and these products may include technologies and business models with which we have little or no prior experience or may significantly change our existing products and services. In addition, we may be unable to obtain long-term licenses from third-party content providers and/or government regulatory approvals and licenses necessary to allow a new or existing product or service to function. If our new or enhanced products and services do not engage our students or attract new students, or if we cannot obtain desirable third party content, we may not grow our student base or generate sufficient revenues, operating margin, or other value to justify our investments, and our business could be adversely affected. If we are not able to manage the growth of our business both in terms of scale and complexity, our business could be adversely affected. As we grow, the operations and technology infrastructure we use to manage and account for our operations will become more complex, and managing these aspects of our business will become more challenging. Acquisitions of new companies, products, and services create integration risk, while developing and enhancing products and services involves significant time, labor, and expense as well as other challenges, including managing the length of the development cycle, entering new markets, regulatory compliance, evolution of sales and marketing, and protecting proprietary rights. Any future expansion will likely place significant demand on our resources, capabilities and systems, and we may need to develop new processes and procedures and expand our infrastructure to respond to these demands. If we are not able to manage the growth of our business, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues as anticipated or recover any associated acquisition or development costs, and our business could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy includes acquisitions, and we may not be able to execute on our acquisition strategy or integrate acquisitions successfully. As part of our business strategy, we have made and intend to continue to make acquisitions to add specialized employees, complementary businesses, products, services, operations, or technologies. To be successful, we must timely and efficiently integrate acquired companies, including their technologies, products, services, operations, and personnel. Acquired companies can be complex and time consuming to integrate and we may incur significant integration costs and we may not be able to offset our acquisition costs. Acquisitions involve many risks that may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including the risks that the acquisitions may: require us to incur charges and substantial debt or liabilities; cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, or deferred compensation charges; result in acquired in-process research and development expenses or in the future may require the amortization, write-down, or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill, and other intangible assets; and give rise to various litigation and regulatory risks. In addition: we may encounter difficulties or unforeseen expenditures to integrate an acquired company; an acquisition may disrupt our business, divert resources, increase expenses, and distract our management; an acquisition may reduce or delay adoption and engagement rates for our acquired products and services because of student uncertainty about continuity and effectiveness; we may not successfully transition acquired users to the Chegg platform and therefore may not realize the potential benefits of these acquisitions; it may be difficult to monetize any acquired products and services; an acquisition may not ultimately be complementary to our offerings; and 21 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s an acquisition may involve the entry into markets where we have little or no prior experience. Our ability to acquire and integrate larger or more complex businesses, products, services, operations, or technologies in a successful manner is unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. To finance any future acquisitions, we may issue equity or equity-linked securities, which could be dilutive, or debt, which could be costly, potentially dilutive, and impose substantial restrictions on the conduct of our business. If we fail to successfully complete any acquisitions or integrate them into our company, or identify and address liabilities associated with the acquisition, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we become subject to liability for the Internet content that we publish or that is uploaded to our websites by students, our results of operations could be adversely affected. As a publisher and distributor of online content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, or trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we publish or distribute. We also may face liability for content uploaded by students in connection with our community-related content. If we become liable, third parties may initiate litigation against us and our business may suffer. For example, in June 2017, the Examinations Institute of the American Chemical Society filed a complaint against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California claiming, among other things, that we infringed their copyrights by answering and displaying questions uploaded by our users to our Q&A service. Others may send us communications that make allegations without initiating litigation. We have in the past and may in the future receive such communications, which we assess on a case-by-case basis. We may elect not to respond to the communication if we believe it is without merit or we may try to resolve disputes out-of-court by removing content or services we offer or paying licensing or other fees. If we cannot resolve such disputes, litigation may result. Litigation to defend these claims could be costly, divert our technical and management personnel, render us unable to use our current website or to market our service or sell our products and therefore harm our results of operations. We may not be adequately insured to cover claims of these types or indemnified for all liability that may be imposed on us. Any adverse publicity resulting from actual or potential litigation may also materially and adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. We maintain content usage review systems that, through a combination of manual and automated blocks, monitor for and make us aware of potentially infringing content on our platform. Nevertheless, claims may continue to be brought and threatened against us for negligence, intellectual property infringement, or other theories and there is no guarantee that we will be able to resolve any such claims quickly and without damage to our business, our reputation or our operations. From time to time, we have been subject to copyright infringement claims, some of which we have settled. While these settlements have not had a material impact on our financial condition, we may be subject to similar lawsuits in the future and the outcome of any such lawsuits may not be favorable to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Changes in or our failure to comply with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) could harm our business. The DMCA has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for caching or hosting or for listing or linking to, content or third-party websites that include materials or other content that infringe copyrights or other intellectual property or proprietary rights, provided we comply with the strict statutory requirements of the DMCA. The interpretations of the statutory requirements of the DMCA are constantly being modified by court rulings and industry practice. Accordingly, if we fail to comply with such statutory requirements or if the interpretations of the DMCA change, we may be subject to potential liability for caching or hosting, or for listing or linking to, content or third-party websites that include materials or other content that infringe copyrights or other intellectual property or proprietary rights. Failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success and ability to compete depends in part on our intellectual property and our other proprietary business information. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants, and third parties with whom we have relationships to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. However, we may be unable to secure intellectual property protection for all of our technology and methodologies or the steps we take to enforce our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. If the protection of our intellectual property and proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may 22 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to customers and potential customers may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract customers may be adversely affected. Third parties may challenge any patents, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property and proprietary rights owned or held by us. Third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe, misappropriate, or otherwise violate our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and other proprietary rights and we may not be able to prevent infringement, misappropriation, or other violation without substantial expense to us. Additionally, if we fail to protect our domain names, it could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for students to find our website, our content, and our services. If we pursue litigation to assert our intellectual property or proprietary rights, an adverse decision could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property or proprietary rights, limit the value of our intellectual property or proprietary rights, or otherwise negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are a party to a number of third-party intellectual property license agreements. For example, we have entered into agreements with textbook publishers that provide access to textbook questions and other content for our Chegg Study subscription service. We cannot guarantee that the third-party intellectual property we license will not be licensed to our competitors or others in our industry. In the future, we may need to obtain additional licenses or renew existing license agreements. We cannot predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to obtain or renew such third-party intellectual property license agreements on commercially competitive terms could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property claims, which are costly to defend and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, third parties have alleged and are likely to allege in the future that we or our business infringes, misappropriates, or otherwise violates their intellectual property or proprietary rights. Many companies, including various non-practicing entities or patent trolls, devote significant resources to developing or acquiring patents that could affect aspects of our business. For instance, on November 5, 2018, a non-practicing entity (NPE) filed an action against us in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York captioned NetSoc, LLC v. Chegg, Inc. , Civil Action No. 1:18-CV-10262-RAC (the NetSoc Action). For further information on this action, see Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies, of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the publishing industry has been and will continue to be the target of counterfeiting and piracy. We have in the past received and expect to continue to receive, communications alleging that physical textbooks sold or rented by us are counterfeit. While our fulfillment partner has systems for inspecting the physical textbooks in our catalog of textbooks, many of the textbooks sold or rented to students are shipped directly from our suppliers, and, despite inspection, unauthorized or counterfeit textbooks may inadvertently be included in the catalog of textbooks we offer and may be, without our knowledge that they are unauthorized or counterfeit, subsequently sold or rented by us to students, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability. We may implement additional measures in an effort to protect against these potential liabilities that could require us to spend substantial resources. Any costs incurred as a result of liability or asserted liability relating to sales of unauthorized or counterfeit textbooks could harm our business, reputation, and financial condition. Some aspects of our technology include open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could harm our business. We use open source software in connection with certain of our products and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute or use open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s Risks Related to Data Privacy Computer malware, viruses, hacking, phishing attacks, and spamming could harm our business and results of operations. If our security measures or those of our service providers or companies we may acquire are breached or are perceived to have been breached, including cyberattacks or other intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, or if third parties obtain unauthorized access to our data, including sensitive customer data, personal information, intellectual property and other confidential business information, we could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to address the problem. Any such events could harm our business, increase our costs, including due to litigation and enforcement actions, indemnity obligations, damages, penalties and costs for remediation, and damage our reputation or brand. Cyberattacks and security threats are constantly evolving, making it increasingly difficult to successfully defend against them or implement adequate preventative measures. For instance, in April 2018, an unauthorized party gained access to user data for chegg.com and certain of our family of brands such as EasyBib (the 2018 Data Incident). The information that may have been obtained could include a Chegg users name, email address, shipping address, Chegg username, and hashed Chegg password. To date, no social security numbers or financial information such as users credit card numbers or bank account information were obtained. Additionally, Thinkful, prior to our acquisition of it, discovered an unauthorized party may have gained access to certain Thinkful company credentials (the Thinkful Data Incident). If we, or companies that we acquire, experience security compromises that result in website performance or availability problems, the complete shutdown of our websites, or the actual or perceived loss or unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information, such as credit card information, users may be harmed or lose trust and confidence in us, and decrease the use of our services or stop using our services in their entirety, and we would suffer reputational and financial harm, in addition to increased regulatory scrutiny, litigation, fines, and governmental enforcement actions. As part of our regular cybersecurity efforts, including enhancements to our cybersecurity controls made following our discovery of these prior events, we have implemented physical, technical, and administrative safeguards designed to protect our systems. However, efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement, may limit the functionality of our services, and we may need to expend significant additional resources to further enhance our safeguards and protection against security breaches or to redress problems caused by security breaches and such efforts may not be fully effective. Additionally, our network security business disruption insurance may not be sufficient to cover significant expenses and losses related to direct attacks on our website or systems we use. Any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security, and availability of our products and services and technical infrastructure, or the actual or perceived loss or unauthorized disclosure or use of the data we collect and develop may lead our users to lose trust and confidence in us or otherwise harm our reputation, brand, and our ability to attract students to our website or may lead them to decrease the use of our services or applications or stop using our services in their entirety. Any significant disruption to our website or computer systems we use could result in a loss of students or advertisers and, particularly if disruptions occur during the peak periods at the beginning of each academic term, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, depending on the nature of the information compromised, in the event of a security breach or other privacy or security related incident, we may also have obligations to notify affected individuals and regulators about the incident, and we may need to provide some form of remedy, such as a subscription to credit monitoring services, payment of significant fines, or payment of compensation in connection with a class-action settlement (including under the new private right of action under the CCPA). Such breach notification laws continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Complying with these obligations could cause us to incur substantial costs and could increase negative publicity surrounding any incident that compromises our, our users, our employees, or other confidential or personal information. Any significant disruption, including those related to cybersecurity or arising from cyberattacks, to our computer systems, especially during peak periods, could result in a loss of students and/or brands which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We rely on computer systems housed in six facilities, three located on the East Coast and three located on the West Coast, to manage our operations. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience periodic service interruptions and delays involving our systems. While we maintain a fail-over capability to switch our operations from one facility to another in the event of a service outage, that process would still result in service interruptions that could be significant in duration. Such interruptions could have a disproportionate effect on our operations if they were to occur during one of our peak periods or if multiple of our service facilities experiences outages at the same time. Our facilities are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. 24 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s Our facilities and information systems, as well as those of our third-party service providers, are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, cybersecurity risks including cyberattacks such as computer viruses and denial of service attacks, the failure of physical, administrative, and technical security measures, terrorist acts, natural disasters, human error, the financial insolvency of our third-party vendors, and other unanticipated problems or events. These information systems have periodically experienced and will continue to experience both directed attacks and loss of, misuse of, or theft of data. Moreover, due to the current COVID-19 pandemic, there is an increased risk that we may experience cybersecurity related incidents as a result of our employees, service providers, and third parties working remotely on less secure systems. While we have implemented physical, technical, and administrative safeguards designed to help protect our systems, in the event of a system interruption or a security exposure or breach, they may not be as effective as intended and we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for related losses. To date, unauthorized users have not had a material effect on our company; however, there can be no assurance that attacks will not be successful in the future or that any loss will not be material. In addition, our information systems must be constantly updated, patched, and upgraded to optimize performance and protect against known vulnerabilities, material disruptions, or slowdown. The access by unauthorized persons to, or the improper disclosure by us of, confidential information regarding our customers or our own proprietary information, software, methodologies, and business secrets could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, or a loss of confidence in the security of our systems, products, and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We also rely on Internet systems and infrastructure to operate our business. The information systems used by our third-party service providers and the Internet generally are vulnerable to these risks as well. In particular, we rely heavily on SaaS enterprise resource planning systems to conduct our e-commerce and financial transactions and reporting. In addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. Problems faced by us or our third-party hosting and cloud-computing providers, or interruptions in our own systems or in the infrastructure of the Internet, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could hinder our ability to operate our business, damage our reputation or brand and result in a loss of students or brands which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We collect, process, store and use personal information and data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, process, store, and use personal information and data supplied by students and tutors. We may enable students to share their personal information with each other and with third parties and to communicate and share information into and across our platform. If we were to disclose data about our student users in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation and brand could be adversely affected, and we could face legal claims that could impact our results of operations. In addition, there are numerous federal, state, and local laws regarding privacy and the collection, storing, sharing, using, processing, disclosing and protecting of personal information and other user data, including from minors under the age of 18, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and which may be costly to comply with and may be inconsistent between countries and jurisdictions or conflict with other rules. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations, and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. However, U.S. federal, U.S. state, and international laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection, including the CCPA and CPRA, are rapidly evolving and may be inconsistent and we could be deemed out of compliance as such laws and their interpretation change. In addition, foreign privacy, data protection, and other laws and regulations, particularly in Europe and including the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), which became effective in May 2018, are often at least as restrictive as those in the United States. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to our business operations may limit the use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for them. Furthermore, foreign court judgments or regulatory actions could impact our ability to transfer, process, and/or receive transnational data, including data relating to students or partners outside the United States, or alter our ability to use cookies to deliver advertising and other products to users. Such judgments or actions could affect the manner in which we provide our services or adversely affect our financial results if foreign students and partners are not able to lawfully transfer data to us. In addition, some countries and states are considering or have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services. Any changes in such laws and regulations or a change or differing interpretation or application to our business of the existing laws and regulations, including the GDPR, could also hinder our operational flexibility, raise compliance costs and, particularly if our compliance efforts are deemed to be insufficient, result in additional historical or future liabilities and regulatory scrutiny for us, resulting in adverse impacts on our business and our results of operations. 25 T a b l e o f C o n t e n t s In addition, we may be subject to regulatory investigations or litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue, and we could also be liable to third parties for these types of breaches. For instance, following the 2018 Data Incident, a purported securities class action captioned Shah v. Chegg, Inc. et. al. (Case No. 3:18-cv-05956-CRB) was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against us and our CEO. The complaint was filed by a purported Chegg stockholder and alleges claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, based on allegedly misleading statements regarding our security measures to protect users data and related internal