Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.If any of the following risks actually occur, or other risks that we are not aware of become material, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 8 Summary Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. The risk factors described below are only a summary of the principal risk factors associated with an investment in us. These risks are more fully described in this Risk Factors section, including the following: Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our recent growth rates may not be sustainable or indicative of our future growth and we may not be able to successfully manage challenges to our future growth. Business disruptions and responsive actions may adversely affect our business operations, financial performance, liquidity and cash flow for an unknown period of time. If we fail to acquire and retain new customers, or fail to do so in a cost-effective manner, we may be unable to increase net sales, improve margins, and maintain profitability. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our continued success is largely dependent on positive perceptions of the Company. We have a history of losses and may generate operating losses as we continue to expand our business. We may be unable to accurately forecast net sales and appropriately plan our expenses in the future. Our estimate of the size of our addressable markets may prove to be inaccurate. We may be unable to source additional suppliers or strengthen our existing relationships with suppliers. In addition, the loss of any of our key suppliers would negatively impact our business. Shipping is a critical part of our business and any changes in, or disruptions to, our shipping arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not successfully optimize, operate, and manage the expansion of the capacity of our fulfillment centers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to provide our customers with a cost-effective platform that is able to respond and adapt to rapid changes in technology. We are subject to risks related to online payment methods. Our business depends on network and mobile infrastructure, our third-party data center hosting facilities (including cloud-service providers), other third-party providers, and our ability to maintain and scale our technology. Any significant interruptions or delays in service on our websites or mobile applications or any undetected errors or design faults could result in limited capacity, reduced demand, processing delays, and loss of customers or suppliers. Disruptions to software-as-a-service technologies from third parties may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our failure or the failure of third-party service providers to protect our websites, networks, and systems against cybersecurity incidents, or to otherwise protect our confidential information, could damage our reputation and brand and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Safety, quality, and health concerns regarding our products could affect our business. Risks associated with our suppliers and our outsourcing partners, many of which are located outside of the United States (U.S.), could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations and we may incur material liabilities or costs related to complying with existing or future laws and regulations, and our failure to comply may result in enforcements, penalties, recalls, and other adverse actions. We may inadvertently not comply with various state or federal laws and regulations covering our pet health business, which may subject us to reprimands, sanctions, probations, fines, suspensions, or the loss of one or more of our licenses. Resistance from veterinarians to authorize prescriptions, or their efforts to discourage pet owners from purchasing from us, could cause our sales to decrease and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, marketing and advertising and consumer protection, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to utilize net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and other tax attributes may be subject to certain limitations. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Additionally, we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims or other allegations, which could result in substantial damages and diversion of managements efforts and attention. We may be subject to personal injury, workers compensation, product liability, labor and employment, and other claims in the ordinary course of business. We rely on the performance of members of management and highly skilled personnel and our business could be harmed if we are unable to attract, develop, motivate, and retain highly-qualified and skilled employees. 9 Uncertainties in economic conditions, industry trends, and market conditions, and their impact on the pet market, could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Significant merchandise returns or refunds could harm our business. We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions or investments in new or complementary businesses, technologies, or offerings, or through other strategic transactions, and the failure to manage these acquisitions, investments, or strategic transactions, or to integrate them with our existing business, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business results could be adversely affected if our new offerings are unsuccessful. Regulation of the sale of insurance for pets is subject to change, and future regulations could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we cannot successfully manage the unique challenges presented by international markets, we may not be successful in expanding our operations outside the U.S. and Canada. Risks Related to Our Industry Competition in the pet products and services health and retail industries, especially Internet-based competition, is strong and presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with these regulations could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in tax treatment of companies engaged in e-commerce may adversely affect the commercial use of our websites and mobile applications and our financial results. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our operating flexibility. The terms of our revolving credit facility may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Risks Related to Our Controlling Stockholders Substantial future sales by affiliates of BC Partners (the BCP Stockholder Parties) or others of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the price of our Class A common stock. There could be potential conflicts of interests between us and affiliates of the BCP Stockholder Parties. In addition, our directors may encounter conflicts of interest involving us and the other entities with which they may be affiliated, including matters that involve corporate opportunities. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance. The dual class structure of our common stock may adversely affect the trading market for our Class A common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of the Company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, and limit the market price of our Class A common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation includes exclusive forum provisions, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. The BCP Stockholder Parties control the direction of our business and the concentrated ownership of our common stock will prevent other stockholders from influencing significant decisions. We are a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of NYSE and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. General Risk Factors Future litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing. We may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure