Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Summary Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. The risk factors described below are only a summary of the principal risk factors associated with an investment in us. These risks are more fully described in this Risk Factors section, including the following: Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our recent growth rates may not be sustainable or indicative of our future growth and we may not be able to successfully manage the challenges to our future growth. The recent outbreak of the COVID-19 global pandemic and related government, private sector and individual consumer responsive actions may adversely affect our business operations, employee availability, financial performance, liquidity and cash flow for an unknown period of time. If we fail to acquire and retain new customers, or fail to do so in a cost-effective manner, we may be unable to increase net sales, improve margins and achieve profitability. The growth of our business depends on our ability to accurately predict consumer trends, successfully introduce new products and services, improve existing products and services, and expand into new offerings. We may be unable to accurately forecast net sales and appropriately plan our expenses in the future. Our estimate of the size of our addressable market may prove to be inaccurate. If we are not able to source additional, or strengthen our existing relationships with, suppliers, or if we lose any of our key suppliers, our business could be negatively impacted. Any changes in, or disruptions to, our shipping arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not successfully optimize, operate and manage the expansion of the capacity of our fulfillment centers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to provide our customers with a cost-effective platform that is able to respond and adapt to rapid changes in technology. We are subject to risks related to online payment methods. Any significant interruptions or delays in service on our website or mobile applications or any undetected errors or design faults could result in limited capacity, reduced demand, processing delays, and loss of customers or suppliers. 7 Our failure or the failure of third-party service providers to protect our website, networks, and systems against cybersecurity incidents, or otherwise to protect our confidential information, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Safety, quality, and health concerns could affect our business. Risks associated with our suppliers and our outsourcing partners, many of which are located outside of the United States (U.S.), could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and we may incur material liabilities under, or costs in order to comply with, existing or future laws and regulation, and our failure to comply may result in enforcements, recalls, and other adverse actions. Resistance from veterinarians to authorize prescriptions, or attempts/efforts on their part to discourage pet owners from purchasing from us could cause our sales to decrease and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to certain limitations. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Additionally, we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims or other allegations, which could result in substantial damages and diversion of managements efforts and attention. If we are unable to attract, develop, motivate and retain well-qualified employees, our business could be harmed. Uncertainties in economic conditions and their impact on consumer spending patterns, particularly in the pet products market, could adversely impact our results of operations. Significant merchandise returns or refunds could harm our business. Severe weather, including hurricanes, earthquakes and natural disasters could disrupt normal business operations, which could result in increased costs and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our failure to manage new acquisitions, investments or alliances, or to integrate them with our existing business, could have a material adverse effect on us. If we cannot successfully manage the unique challenges presented by international markets, we may not be successful in expanding our operations outside the U.S. Risks Related to Our Industry Competition in the pet products and services retail industry, especially Internet-based competition, is strong and presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with these regulations could substantially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our operating flexibility. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance. The dual class structure of our common stock may adversely affect the trading market for our Class A common stock. We are a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of NYSE and, as a result, we rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements and the concentrated ownership of our common stock will prevent other stockholders from influencing significant decisions. General Risk Factors Future litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure