Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The descriptions of our business, products, and markets in this section apply to all of our operating segments. 9 Seasonality Our profitability has historically been highly seasonal. Our second fiscal quarter, ending December 31, includes the majority of the holiday shopping season and has become our strongest quarter for sales of our consumer-oriented products, such as holiday cards, calendars, photo books, and personalized gifts. Operating income during the second fiscal quarter represented 62% , 61% , and 72% of annual operating income in the years ended June 30, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. Government Regulation We are currently subject to the regulations that are applicable to businesses generally and to online commerce specifically. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet, consumer protection, or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. Employees As of June 30, 2015, we had approximately 6,200 full-time and approximately 400 temporary employees worldwide. Corporate Information Cimpress N.V. was incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands on June 5, 2009 and on August 30, 2009 became the publicly traded parent company of the Cimpress group of entities. We maintain our registered office at Hudsonweg 8, 5928 LW Venlo, the Netherlands. Our telephone number in the Netherlands is +31-77-850-7700. As a result of our change of domicile from Bermuda to the Netherlands on August 30, 2009, the common shareholders of Vistaprint Limited became ordinary shareholders of Vistaprint N.V. and Vistaprint N.V. became the publicly traded parent company of the Vistaprint group of entities. Vistaprint Limited, the immediate predecessor corporation to Vistaprint N.V., was incorporated under the laws of Bermuda in April 2002. Available Information We are registered as a reporting company under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Exchange Act. Accordingly, we file or furnish with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements as required by the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC. The public may read and copy our reports, proxy statements and other materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Cimpress N.V, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of this website is www.sec.gov. We make available, free of charge through our United States website, the reports, proxy statements, amendments and other materials we file with or furnish to the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with or to the SEC. The address of our United States website is www.cimpress.com. We are not including the information contained on our website, or information that can be accessed by links contained on our website, as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future results may vary materially from those contained in forward-looking statements that we make in this Report and other filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors, and oral statements due to the following important factors, among others. Our forward-looking statements in this Report and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. These statements can be affected by, among other things, inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties or risks we currently deem immaterial. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 10 Risks Related to Our Business If our long-term growth strategy is not successful or if our financial projections relating to the effects of our strategy turn out to be incorrect, our business and financial results could be harmed. We may not achieve the objectives of our long-term investment and financial strategy, our financial projections relating to the growth and development of our business may turn out to be incorrect, and our investments in our business may fail to impact our results and growth as anticipated. Some of the factors that could cause our business strategy to fail to achieve our objectives include, among others: our failure to adequately execute our operational strategy or anticipate and overcome obstacles to achieving our strategic goals; our failure to make our intended investments because the investments are more costly than we expected or because we are unable to devote the necessary operational and financial resources; our inability to purchase or develop technologies and production platforms to increase our efficiency, enhance our competitive advantage and scale our operations; the failure of our current supply chain to provide the resources we need at the standards we require and our inability to develop new or enhanced supply chains; our failure to acquire new customers and enter new markets, retain our current customers, and sell more products to current and new customers; our failure to manage the growth, complexity, and pace of change of our business and expand our operations; our failure to acquire businesses that enhance the growth and development of our business or to effectively integrate the businesses we do acquire into our business; our failure to identify and address the causes of our revenue weakness in some markets; our failure to sustain growth in relatively mature markets; our failure to promote, strengthen, and protect our brands; the failure of our current and new marketing channels to attract customers; our failure to realize expected returns on our capital allocation decisions; unanticipated changes in our business, current and anticipated markets, industry, or competitive landscape; our failure to attract and retain skilled talent needed to execute our strategy and sustain our growth; and general economic conditions. In addition, projections are inherently uncertain and are based on assumptions and judgments by management that may be flawed or based on information about our business and markets that may change in the future in ways that may be beyond our control. Our actual results may differ materially from our projections due to various factors, including the factors listed immediately above and in the risk factor below entitled "Our quarterly financial results will often fluctuate," which is also applicable to longer-term results. If our strategy is not successful, or if there is a market perception that our strategy is not successful, then our revenue, earnings, and value may not grow as anticipated or may decline, we may not be profitable, our reputation and brand may be damaged, and the price of our shares may decline. In addition, we may change our strategy from time to time, which can cause fluctuations in our financial results and volatility in our share price. 11 If we are unable to attract visitors to our websites and convert those visitors to customers, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract new and repeat customers in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a variety of methods to draw visitors to our websites and promote our products and services, such as purchased search results from online search engines such as Google and Yahoo!, email, direct mail, advertising banners and other online links, broadcast media, and word-of-mouth customer referrals. If the search engines on which we rely modify their algorithms, terminate their relationships with us, or increase the prices at which we may purchase listings, our costs could increase, and fewer customers may click through to our websites. If we are not effective at reaching new and repeat customers, if fewer customers click through to our websites, or if the costs of attracting customers using our current methods significantly increase, then traffic to our websites would be reduced, our revenue and net income could decline, and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Purchasers of micro business marketing products and services, including graphic design and customized printing, may not choose to shop online, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers that are necessary to the success of our business. The online market for micro business marketing products and services is less developed than the online market for other business and home and family products, and our success depends in part on our ability to attract customers who have historically purchased products and services we offer through offline channels. Specific factors that could prevent prospective customers from purchasing from us as an online retailer include: concerns about buying graphic design services and marketing products without face-to-face interaction with sales personnel; the inability to physically handle and examine product samples; delivery time associated with Internet orders; concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information; delayed shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products; limited access to the Internet; and the inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging purchased items. In addition, our internal research shows that an increasing number of current and potential customers access our websites using smart phones or tablet computing devices and that our website visits using traditional desktop computers may be declining. Designing and purchasing custom designed products on a smart phone, tablet, or other mobile device is more difficult than doing so with a traditional computer due to limited screen sizes and bandwidth constraints. If our customers and potential customers have difficulty accessing and using our websites and technologies, then our revenue could decline. We may not succeed in promoting and strengthening our brands, which could prevent us from acquiring new customers and increasing revenues. A primary component of our business strategy is to promote and strengthen our brands to attract new and repeat customers to our websites, and we face significant competition from other companies in our markets who also seek to establish strong brands. To promote and strengthen our brands, we must incur substantial marketing expenses and establish a relationship of trust with our customers by providing a high-quality customer experience. Providing a high-quality customer experience requires us to invest substantial amounts of resources in our website development, design and technology, graphic design operations, production operations, and customer service operations. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience is also dependent on external factors over which we may have little or no control, including the reliability and performance of our suppliers, third-party carriers, and communication infrastructure providers. If we are unable to promote our brands or provide customers with a high-quality customer experience, we may fail to attract new customers, maintain customer relationships, and sustain or increase our revenues. 12 We manage our business for long-term results, and our quarterly financial results, especially our GAAP results, will often fluctuate, which may lead to volatility in our share price. Our revenues and operating results often vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, and as a result comparing our financial results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Many of the factors that lead to period-to-period fluctuations are outside of our control; however, some factors are inherent in our business strategies. Additionally, we prioritize longer-term results over shorter-term results and generally do not manage our business to maximize current period GAAP profitability metrics. Some of the specific factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include among others: seasonality-driven or other variations in the demand for our products and services, in particular during our second fiscal quarter; currency and interest rate fluctuations, which affect our revenues, costs, and fair value of our assets; our hedging activity; our ability to attract visitors to our websites and convert those visitors into customers; our ability to retain customers and generate repeat purchases; shifts in product mix toward less profitable products; the commencement or termination of agreements with our strategic partners, suppliers, and others; our ability to manage our production, fulfillment, and support operations; costs to produce and deliver our products and provide our services, including the effects of inflation; our pricing and marketing strategies and those of our competitors; investments in our business in the current period intended to generate or support revenues and operations in future periods; expenses and charges related to our compensation agreements with our executives and employees; costs and charges resulting from litigation; significant increases in credits, beyond our estimated allowances, for customers who are not satisfied with our products; changes in our income tax rate; costs to acquire businesses or integrate our acquired businesses; impairments of our tangible and intangible assets including goodwill; and the results of our minority investments and joint ventures. Some of our expenses, such as office leases, depreciation related to previously acquired property and equipment, and personnel costs, are relatively fixed, and we may be unable to, or may not choose to, adjust operating expenses to offset any revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Our operating results may sometimes be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, in which case the price of our ordinary shares will likely decline. 13 Our global operations and expansion place a significant strain on our management, employees, facilities, and other resources and subject us to additional risks. We are a global company with production facilities, offices, and localized websites in multiple countries across six continents. We expect to establish operations, acquire or invest in businesses, and sell our products and services in additional geographic regions, including emerging markets, where we may have limited or no experience. We may not be successful in all regions in which we invest or where we establish operations, which may be costly to us. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that relate to our global operations and expansion, including, among others: difficulty managing operations in, and communications among, multiple locations and time zones; difficulty complying with multiple tax laws, treaties, and regulations and limiting our exposure to onerous or unanticipated taxes, duties, and other costs; local regulations that may restrict or impair our ability to conduct our business as planned; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local producers and service providers; our inexperience in marketing and selling our products and services within unfamiliar countries and cultures; challenges of working with local business partners in some regions, such as Japan and Brazil; our failure to properly understand and develop graphic design content and product formats appropriate for local tastes; disruptions caused by political and social instability that may occur in some countries; corrupt business practices, such as bribery or the willful infringement of intellectual property rights, that may be common in some countries; difficulty expatriating cash from some countries; difficulty importing and exporting our products across country borders and difficulty complying with customs regulations in the many countries where we sell products; disruptions or cessation of important components of our international supply chain; the challenge of complying with disparate laws in multiple countries; restrictions imposed by local labor practices and laws on our business and operations; and failure of local laws to provide a sufficient degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property. To manage our operations and anticipated growth, we must continue to refine our operational, financial, and management controls, human resource policies, reporting systems, and procedures in the locations in which we operate. If we are unable to implement improvements to these systems and controls in an efficient or timely manner or if we discover deficiencies in our existing systems and controls, then our ability to manage our business and provide a high-quality customer experience could be harmed, which would damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and financial results. In addition, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may impact items such as the translation of our revenues and expenses, remeasurement of our intercompany balances, and the value of our cash and cash equivalents and other assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency. While we engage in hedging activities to mitigate some of the net impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations, our financial results may differ materially from expectations as a result of such fluctuations. 14 Acquisitions and strategic investments may be disruptive to our business and may fail to achieve our goals. An important component of our strategy is to selectively pursue acquisitions of businesses, technologies, or services and invest in businesses and joint ventures. The time and expense associated with finding suitable businesses, technologies, or services to acquire or invest in can be disruptive to our ongoing business and divert our management's attention. In addition, we have needed in the past, and may need in the future, to seek financing for acquisitions and investments, which may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, and can cause dilution to our shareholders, cause us to incur additional debt, or subject us to covenants restricting the activities we may undertake. Integrating newly acquired businesses, technologies, and services and monitoring and managing our investments and joint ventures are complex, expensive, time consuming, and subject to many risks, including the following: We may not be able to retain customers and key employees of the acquired businesses, and we and the businesses we acquire or invest in may not be able to cross sell products and services to each other's customers. An acquisition or investment may fail to achieve our goals and expectations for a number of reasons including the following: We may fail to integrate acquired businesses, technologies, services, or internal systems effectively, or the integration may be more expensive or take more time than we anticipated. The management of our investments may be more expensive or may take more resources than we expected. We may encounter unexpected cultural or language challenges in integrating an acquired business or managing our investment in a business. The business we acquired or invested in may not perform as well as we expected. In some cases, our acquisitions and investments are dilutive for a period of time, leading to reduced earnings. Acquisitions and investments can result in increased expenses including impairments of goodwill and intangible assets if financial goals are not achieved, assumptions of contingent or unanticipated liabilities, or increased tax costs. We generally assume the liabilities of businesses we acquire, which could include liability for an acquired business' violation of law that occurred before we acquired it. In addition, we have historically acquired smaller, privately held companies that may not have as strong a culture of legal compliance as a larger, publicly traded company like Cimpress, and if we fail to implement adequate training, controls, and monitoring of the acquired companies, we could also be liable for post-acquisition legal violations. The accounting for our acquisitions requires us to make significant estimates, judgments, and assumptions that can change from period to period, based in part on factors outside of our control, and can create volatility in our financial results. For example, we often pay a portion of the purchase price for our acquisitions in the form of an earn-out based on performance targets for the acquired companies, which can be difficult to forecast. We accrue liabilities for estimated future contingent earn-out payments based on an evaluation of the likelihood of achievement of the contractual conditions underlying the earn-out and weighted probability assumptions of the required outcomes. If in the future our assumptions change and we determine that higher levels of achievement are likely under our earn-outs, we will need to pay and record additional amounts to reflect the increased purchase price. These additional amounts could be significant and could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, earn-out provisions can lead to disputes with the sellers about the achievement of the earn-out performance targets, and earn-out performance targets can sometimes create inadvertent incentives for the acquired company's management to take actions designed to maximize the earn-out instead of benefiting the business. We may not be successful in developing our mass customization platform or in realizing the anticipated benefits of a mass customization platform, once it has been developed. A key component of our strategy is the development of a mass customization platform that combines the strengths of the production technologies and processes from all of our subsidiaries into a shared platform we can leverage across all of our brands. The process of developing new technology is complex, costly, and uncertain, and 15 the development effort could be disruptive to our business and existing systems. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant resources before knowing whether our mass customization platform will be successful and make us more effective and competitive. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop the platform nor that we will realize expected returns on the capital expended to develop the platform. Seasonal fluctuations in our business place a strain on our operations and resources. Our profitability has historically been highly seasonal. Our second fiscal quarter includes the majority of the holiday shopping season and accounts for a disproportionately high portion of our earnings for the year, primarily due to higher sales of home and family products such as holiday cards, calendars, photo books, and personalized gifts. Our operating income during the second fiscal quarter represented 62% , 61% , and 72% of annual operating income in the years ended June 30, 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. In anticipation of increased sales activity during our second fiscal quarter holiday season, we typically incur significant additional capacity related expenses each year to meet our seasonal needs, including facility expansions, equipment purchases and leases, and increases in the number of temporary and permanent employees. Lower than expected sales during the second quarter would likely have a disproportionately large impact on our operating results and financial condition for the full fiscal year. In addition, if our manufacturing and other operations are unable to keep up with the high volume of orders during our second fiscal quarter, we and our customers can experience delays in order fulfillment and delivery and other disruptions. If we are unable to accurately forecast and respond to seasonality in our business, our business and results of operations may be materially harmed. Our hedging activity could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. We have entered into derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate and currency movements. If we do not accurately forecast our results of operations, execute contracts that do not effectively mitigate our economic exposure to interest rates and currency rates, elect to not apply hedge accounting, or fail to comply with the complex accounting requirements for hedging, our results of operations and cash flows could be volatile, as well as negatively impacted. Also, our hedging objectives may be targeted at non-GAAP financial metrics, which could result in increased volatility in our GAAP results. We face risks related to interruption of our operations and lack of redundancy. Our production facilities, websites, infrastructure, supply chain, customer service centers, and operations may be vulnerable to interruptions, and we do not have redundancies or alternatives in all cases to carry on these operations in the event of an interruption. In addition, because we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our communications and production systems, we may not be able to remedy interruptions to these systems in a timely manner or at all due to factors outside of our control. Some of the events that could cause interruptions in our operations or systems are, among others: fire, natural disasters, or extreme weather - for example, the computer hardware for our websites is located in Bermuda, and our largest customer service center is located in Jamaica, both of which locations are subject to the risk of hurricanes labor strike, work stoppage, or other issues with our workforce political instability or acts of terrorism or war power loss or telecommunication failure attacks on our external websites or internal network by hackers or other malicious parties undetected errors or design faults in our technology, infrastructure, and processes that may cause our websites to fail inadequate capacity in our systems and infrastructure to cope with periods of high volume and demand human error, including poor managerial judgment or oversight 16 Any interruptions to our systems or operations could result in lost revenue, increased costs, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and brand, and an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Building redundancies into our infrastructure, systems and supply chain to mitigate these risks may require us to commit substantial financial, operational, and technical resources, in some cases before the volume of our business increases with no assurance that our revenues will increase. We face intense competition, and we expect our competition to continue to increase. The markets for small business marketing products and services and home and family custom products, including the printing and graphic design market, are intensely competitive, highly fragmented, and geographically dispersed. The competitive landscape for e-commerce companies continues to change as new e-commerce businesses are introduced and traditional bricks and mortar businesses establish an online presence. Competition may result in price pressure, reduced profit margins and loss of market share and brand recognition, any of which could substantially harm our business and financial results. Current and potential competitors include (in no particular order): traditional offline printers and graphic design providers; online printing and graphic design companies, many of which provide printed products and services similar to ours; office superstores, drug store chains, food retailers and other major retailers targeting small business and consumer markets; wholesale printers; self-service desktop design and publishing using personal computer software; email marketing services companies; website design and hosting companies; suppliers of customized apparel, promotional products and gifts; online photo product companies; Internet firms and retailers; online providers of custom printing services that outsource production to third party printers; and providers of other digital marketing such as social media, local search directories and other providers. Many of our current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including longer operating histories, greater brand recognition or loyalty, more focus on a given subset of our business, or significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources. Many of our competitors currently work together, and additional competitors may do so in the future through strategic business agreements or acquisitions. Competitors may also develop new or enhanced products, technologies or capabilities that could render many of the products, services and content we offer obsolete or less competitive, which could harm our business and financial results. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future choose to collaborate with some of our existing and potential competitors in strategic partnerships that we believe will improve our competitive position and financial results, such as through a retail in-store or web-based collaborative offering. It is possible, however, that such ventures will be unsuccessful and that our competitive position and financial results will be adversely affected as a result of such collaboration. 17 Failure to meet our customers' price expectations would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Demand for our products and services, in particular in the Price Primary Market Segment where we have historically generated most of our business, is sensitive to price, and changes in our pricing strategies have a significant impact on our revenues and results of operations. Many factors can significantly impact our pricing and marketing strategies, including the costs of running our business, our competitors' pricing and marketing strategies, and the effects of inflation. For example, recent changes to our pricing and marketing strategies in our Vistaprint brand have adversely affected our revenue growth and the numbers of customers and orders in some regions. If we fail to meet our customers' price expectations, our business and results of operations will suffer. Failure to protect our networks and the confidential information of our customers, employees, and business partners against security breaches could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Businesses like ours are increasingly becoming targets for cyber attacks and other thefts of data. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Any compromise or breach of our network, websites, or retail locations, our employee personal data, or our customer transaction data, including credit and debit card information, could, among other things: damage our reputation and brand; expose us to losses, litigation, and possible liability; result in a failure to comply with legal and industry privacy regulations and standards; lead to the misappropriation of our and our customers' proprietary or personal information; or cause interruptions in our operations. In addition, some of our partners also collect information from transactions with our customers, and we may be liable or our reputation may be harmed if our partners fail to protect our customers' information or use it in a manner that is inconsistent with legal and industry privacy regulations or our practices. If we fail to address risks associated with payment fraud, our reputation and brands could be damaged, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. We may be liable for fraudulent transactions conducted on our websites, such as through the use of stolen credit card numbers. To date, quarterly losses from payment fraud have not exceeded 1% of total revenues in any quarter, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud. We rely heavily on email to market to and communicate with customers, and email communications are subject to regulatory and reputation risks. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of commercial email solicitation by blacklisting companies that the entities believe do not meet their standards, which results in those companies' emails being blocked from some Internet domains and addresses. Although we believe that our commercial email solicitations comply with all applicable laws, from time to time some of our Internet protocol addresses appear on some of these blacklists, which can interfere with our ability to market our products and services, communicate with our customers, and operate and manage our websites and corporate email accounts. In addition, as a result of being blacklisted, we have had disputes with, or concerns raised by, various service providers who perform services for us, including co-location and hosting services, Internet service providers and electronic mail distribution services. Further, we have contractual relationships with partners that market our products and services on our behalf, and some of our marketing partners engage third-party email marketers with which we do not have any contractual or other relationship. Although we believe we comply with all applicable laws relating to email solicitations and our contracts with our partners require that they do the same, we do not always have control over the third-party email marketers that our partners engage. If such a third party were to send emails marketing our 18 products and services in violation of applicable anti-spam or other laws, then our reputation could be harmed and we could potentially be liable for their actions. We are subject to safety, health, and environmental laws and regulations, which could result in liabilities, cost increases or restrictions on our operations. We are subject to a variety of safety, health and environmental, or SHE, laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the storage, handling and disposal of hazardous and other regulated substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. We use regulated substances such as inks and solvents, and generate air emissions and other discharges at our manufacturing facilities, and some of our facilities are required to hold environmental permits. If we fail to comply with existing SHE requirements, or new, more stringent SHE requirements applicable to us are imposed, we may be subject to monetary fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims, or the limitation or suspension of our operations. In addition, if we are found to be responsible for hazardous substances at any location (including, for example, offsite waste disposal facilities or facilities at which we formerly operated), we may be responsible for the cost of cleaning up contamination, regardless of fault, as well as to claims for harm to health or property or for natural resource damages arising out of contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. Our customers create products that incorporate images, illustrations and fonts that we license from third parties, and any loss of the right to use these licensed materials may substantially harm our business and results of operations. Many of the images, illustrations, and fonts incorporated in the design products and services we offer are the copyrighted property of other parties that we use under license agreements. If one or more of our licenses covering a significant amount of content were terminated, the amount and variety of content available on our websites would be significantly reduced, and we may not be able to find, license, and introduce substitute content in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical, marketing, and production personnel, any of whom may cease their employment with us at any time with minimal advance notice. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from many other companies in diverse industries. The loss of one or more of our key employees may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives, and our failure to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals or to adequately plan for succession could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan. Our credit facility and the indenture that governs our senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. Our senior secured credit facility, which we refer to as our credit facility, and the indenture that governs our 7.0% senior unsecured notes due 2022, which we refer to as our senior notes, contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness, guarantee indebtedness, and incur liens; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain subordinated debt; issue certain preferred stock or similar redeemable equity securities; make loans and investments; sell assets; 19 enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge, or sell all or substantially all of our assets. As a result of these restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct our business, grow in accordance with our strategy, compete effectively, or take advantage of new business opportunities. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the indenture that governs our senior notes or under the credit facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under our credit facility would permit the lenders under the credit facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our credit facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If our lenders or senior noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. In addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness, and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing. Our material indebtedness and interest expense could adversely affect our financial condition. As of June 30, 2015 , our total debt was $522.5 million , made up of $275 million of senior unsecured notes, $231.5 million of loan obligations under our credit facility and $16.0 million of other debt. We had unused commitments of $610.4 million under our credit facility (after giving effect to letter of credit obligations). Subject to the limits contained in the credit facility, the indenture that governs our senior unsecured notes, and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general corporate requirements; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as some of our borrowings, including borrowings under our credit facility, are at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and increasing our cost of borrowing. 20 We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to economic and competitive conditions and to various financial, business, legislative, regulatory, and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The credit facility and the indenture that governs our senior notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which may not be able to make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness because of legal restrictions in some cases. If we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and our lenders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. As of June 30, 2015 , a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in rates, inclusive of our outstanding interest rate swaps, would result in an increase of interest expense of approximately $0.9 million over the next 12 months. Although we generally enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility, we might not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. Border controls and duties and restrictions on cross-border commerce may impede our shipments across country borders. Many governments impose restrictions on shipping goods into their countries, as well as protectionist measures such as customs duties and tariffs that may apply directly to product categories comprising a material portion of our revenues. The customs laws, rules and regulations that we are required to comply with are complex and subject to unpredictable enforcement and modification. As a result of these restrictions, we have from time to time experienced delays in shipping our manufactured products into certain countries. For example, we produce substantially all physical products for our United States customers at our facility in Ontario, Canada and have occasionally experienced delays shipping from Canada into the United States, where we have historically derived more than half of our annual revenue. If we experience difficulty or delays shipping products into the United States or other key markets, or are prevented from doing so, or if our costs and expenses materially increased, our business and results of operations could be harmed. 21 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our reputation and brands could be damaged, and others may be able to use our technology, which could substantially harm our business and financial results. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and copyrights and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property, but these protective measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to copy or use technology or information that we consider proprietary. There can be no guarantee that any of our pending patent applications or continuation patent applications will be granted, and from time to time we face infringement, invalidity, intellectual property ownership, or similar claims brought by third parties with respect to our patents. In addition, despite our trademark registrations throughout the world, our competitors or other entities may adopt names, marks, or domain names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. For example, some of our competitors purchase the term Vistaprint and other terms incorporating our proprietary trademarks from Google and other search engines as part of their search listing advertising, and courts do not always side with the trademark owners in cases involving search engines. Enforcing our intellectual property rights can be extremely costly, and a failure to protect or enforce these rights could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and financial results. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are costly and could cause us to lose our exclusive rights, subject us to liability, or require us to stop some of our business activities. From time to time, we receive claims from third parties that we infringe their intellectual property rights, that we are required to enter into patent licenses covering aspects of the technology we use in our business, or that we improperly obtained or used their confidential or proprietary information. Any litigation, settlement, license, or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if we settle it or it is resolved in our favor, could be costly, divert our management's efforts from managing and growing our business, and create uncertainties that may make it more difficult to run our operations. If any parties successfully claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay significant damages and attorney's fees, and we could be restricted from using certain technologies important to the operation of our business. Our business is dependent on the Internet, and unfavorable changes in government regulation of the Internet, e-commerce, and email marketing could substantially harm our business and financial results. Due to our dependence on the Internet for our sales, laws specifically governing the Internet, e-commerce and email marketing may have a greater impact on our operations than other more traditional businesses. Existing and future laws, such as laws covering pricing, customs, privacy, consumer protection, or commercial email, may impede the growth of e-commerce and our ability to compete with traditional bricks and mortar retailers. It is not always clear how existing laws governing these and other issues apply to the Internet and e-commerce, as the vast majority of applicable laws were adopted before the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the Bermuda Electronic Transactions Act 1999, the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act, and the U.S. CAN SPAM Act of 2003, are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts, and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and financial results. Our suppliers' failure to use legal and ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. We source the raw materials for the products we sell from an expanding number of suppliers in an increasing number of jurisdictions worldwide, and we require our suppliers to operate in compliance with all applicable laws, including those regarding corruption, working conditions, employment practices, safety and health, and environmental compliance. However, we cannot control our suppliers' business practices, and we may not be able to adequately monitor and audit our many suppliers throughout the world. If any of our suppliers violates labor, environmental, or other laws or implements business practices that are regarded as unethical, our reputation could be severely damaged, and our supply chain could be interrupted, which could harm our sales and results of operations. 22 If we were required to review the content that our customers incorporate into our products and interdict the shipment of products that violate copyright protections or other laws, our costs would significantly increase, which would harm our results of operations. Because of our focus on automation and high volumes, the vast majority of our sales do not involve any human-based review of content. Although our websites' terms of use specifically require customers to make representations about the legality and ownership of the content they upload for production, there is a risk that a customer may supply an image or other content for an order we produce that is the property of another party used without permission, that infringes the copyright or trademark of another party, or that would be considered to be defamatory, hateful, obscene, or otherwise objectionable or illegal under the laws of the jurisdiction(s) where that customer lives or where we operate. If we were to become legally obligated to perform manual screening of customer orders, our costs would increase significantly, and we could be required to pay substantial penalties or monetary damages for any failure in our screening process. We are subject to customer payment-related risks. We accept payments for our products and services on our websites by a variety of methods, including credit or debit card, PayPal, check, wire transfer or other methods. In some geographic regions, we rely on one or two third party companies to provide payment processing services. If any of the payment processing or other companies with which we have contractual arrangements became unwilling or unable to provide these services to us or they or we are unable to comply with our contractual requirements under such arrangements, then we would need to find and engage replacement providers, which we may not be able to do on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, or to process the payments ourselves. Any of these scenarios could be disruptive to our business as they could be costly and time consuming and may unfavorably impact our customers. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud risk. For some payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins or require that we charge our customers more for our products. We are also subject to payment card association and similar operating rules and requirements, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules and requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to product liability claims if people or property are harmed by the products we sell. Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or property damage, and may require product recalls or other actions. Any claims, litigation, or recalls relating to product liability could be costly to us and damage our brands and reputation. Our inability to acquire or maintain domain names in each country or region where we currently or intend to do business could negatively impact our brands and our ability to sell our products and services in that country or region. From time to time we have difficulty obtaining a domain name using Cimpress, Vistaprint, or our other trademarks in a particular country or region, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to use a domain name in a particular country, then we could be forced to purchase the domain name from an entity that owns or controls it, which we may not be able to do on commercially acceptable terms or at all; we may incur significant additional expenses to develop a new brand to market our products within that country; or we may elect not to sell products in that country. We do not collect indirect taxes in all jurisdictions, which could expose us to tax liabilities. In some of the jurisdictions where we sell products and services, we do not collect or have imposed upon us sales, value added or other consumption taxes, which we refer to as indirect taxes. The application of indirect taxes to e-commerce businesses such as Cimpress is a complex and evolving issue, and in many cases, it is not clear how existing tax statutes apply to the Internet or e-commerce. For example, some state governments in the 23 United States have imposed or are seeking to impose indirect taxes on Internet sales. A successful assertion by one or more governments in jurisdictions where we are not currently collecting sales or value added taxes that we should be, or should have been, collecting indirect taxes on the sale of our products could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales. If we are unable to retain security authentication certificates, which are supplied by a limited number of third party providers over which we exercise little or no control, our business could be harmed. We are dependent on a limited number of third party providers of website security authentication certificates that are necessary for conducting secure transactions over the Internet. Despite any contractual protections we may have, these third party providers can disable or revoke, and in the past have disabled or revoked, our security certificates without our consent, which would render our websites inaccessible to some of our customers and could discourage other customers from accessing our sites. Any interruption in our customers' ability or willingness to access our websites if we do not have adequate security certificates could result in a material loss of revenue and profits and damage to our brands. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Challenges by various tax authorities to our international structure could, if successful, increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our earnings. We are a Dutch limited liability company that operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Consequently, we are subject to tax laws, treaties and regulations in the countries in which we operate, and these laws and treaties are subject to interpretation. From time to time, we are subject to tax audits, and the tax authorities in these countries could claim that a greater portion of the income of the Cimpress N.V. group should be subject to income or other tax in their respective jurisdictions, which could result in an increase to our effective tax rate and adversely affect our results of operations. For more information about audits to which we are currently subject refer to Note 14 Income Taxes in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. Changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties could affect our tax rate and our results of operations. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax rate on our earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow from operations. We continue to assess the impact of various international tax reform proposals and modifications to existing tax treaties in all jurisdictions where we have operations that could result in a material impact on our income taxes. We cannot predict whether any specific legislation will be enacted or the terms of any such legislation. However, if such proposals were enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on us, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our intercompany arrangements may be challenged, which could result in higher taxes or penalties and an adverse effect on our earnings. We operate pursuant to written intercompany service and related agreements, which we also refer to as transfer pricing agreements, among Cimpress N.V. and its subsidiaries. These agreements establish transfer prices for production, marketing, management, technology development and other services performed by these subsidiaries for other group companies. Transfer prices are prices that one company in a group of related companies charges to another member of the group for goods, services or the use of property. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be consistent with those between unrelated companies dealing at arm's length. With the exception of certain jurisdictions where we have obtained rulings or advance pricing agreements, our transfer pricing arrangements are not binding on applicable tax authorities, and no official authority in any other country has made a determination as to whether or not we are operating in compliance with its transfer pricing laws. If tax authorities in any country were successful in challenging our transfer prices as not reflecting arm's length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices. A reallocation of taxable income from a lower tax jurisdiction to a higher tax jurisdiction 24 would result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. Our Articles of Association, Dutch law and the independent foundation, Stichting Continuteit Cimpress , may make it difficult to replace or remove management, may inhibit or delay a change of control or may dilute your voting power. Our Articles of Association, or Articles, as governed by Dutch law, limit our shareholders' ability to suspend or dismiss the members of our management board and supervisory board or to overrule our supervisory board's nominees to our management board and supervisory board by requiring a supermajority vote to do so under most circumstances. As a result, there may be circumstances in which shareholders may not be able to remove members of our management board or supervisory board even if holders of a majority of our ordinary shares favor doing so. In addition, an independent foundation, Stichting Continuteit Cimpress , or the Foundation, exists to safeguard the interests of Cimpress N.V. and its stakeholders, which include but are not limited to our shareholders, and to assist in maintaining Cimpress' continuity and independence. To this end, we have granted the Foundation a call option pursuant to which the Foundation may acquire a number of preferred shares equal to the same number of ordinary shares then outstanding, which is designed to provide a protective measure against unsolicited take-over bids for Cimpress and other hostile threats. If the Foundation were to exercise the call option, it may prevent a change of control or delay or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares. Exercise of the preferred share option would also effectively dilute the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares by one half. We have limited flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management and certain corporate transactions. Dutch law requires shareholder approval for the issuance of shares and grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares. In November 2011, our shareholders granted our supervisory board and management board the authority to issue ordinary shares as the boards determine appropriate, without obtaining specific shareholder approval for each issuance, and to limit or exclude shareholders' preemptive rights. However, this authorization expires in November 2016. Although we plan to seek re-approval from our shareholders from time to time in the future, we may not succeed in obtaining future re-approvals. In addition, subject to specified exceptions, Dutch law requires shareholder approval for many corporate actions, such as the approval of dividends, authorization to purchase outstanding shares, and corporate acquisitions of a certain size. Situations may arise where the flexibility to issue shares, pay dividends, purchase shares, acquire other companies, or take other corporate actions without a shareholder vote would be beneficial to us, but is not available under Dutch law. Because of our corporate structure, our shareholders may find it difficult to pursue legal remedies against the members of our supervisory board or management board. Our Articles and our internal corporate affairs are governed by Dutch law, and the rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of our supervisory board and management board are different from those established under United States laws. For example, under Dutch law derivative lawsuits are generally not available, and our supervisory board and management board are responsible for acting in the best interests of the company, its business and all of its stakeholders generally (including employees, customers and creditors), not just shareholders. As a result, our shareholders may find it more difficult to protect their interests against actions by members of our supervisory board or management board than they would if we were a U.S. corporation. Because of our corporate structure, our shareholders may find it difficult to enforce claims based on United States federal or state laws, including securities liabilities, against us or our management team. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and the vast majority of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, some of our officers and management board members reside outside of the United States. In most cases, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by a U.S. federal or state court would not be directly enforceable in the Netherlands. Although there is a process under Dutch law for petitioning a Dutch court to enforce a judgment rendered in the United States, there can be no assurance that a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us or our management team in any lawsuit predicated solely upon U.S. securities or other laws. In addition, because most of our assets are located outside of the United States, it could be 25 difficult for investors to place a lien on our assets in connection with a claim of liability under U.S. laws. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce U.S. court judgments or rights predicated upon U.S. laws against us or our management team outside of the United States. We may not be able to make distributions or purchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to Dutch withholding tax. A Dutch withholding tax may be levied on dividends and similar distributions made by Cimpress N.V. to its shareholders at the statutory rate of 15% if we cannot structure such distributions as being made to shareholders in relation to a reduction of par value, which would be non-taxable for Dutch withholding tax purposes. We have purchased our shares and may seek to purchase additional shares in the future. Under our Dutch Advanced Tax Ruling, a purchase of shares should not result in any Dutch withholding tax if we hold the purchased shares in treasury for the purpose of issuing shares pursuant to employee share awards or for the funding of acquisitions. However, if the shares cannot be used for these purposes, or the Dutch tax authorities successfully challenge the use of the shares for these purposes, such a purchase of shares may be treated as a partial liquidation subject to the 15% Dutch withholding tax to be levied on the difference between our average paid in capital per share for Dutch tax purposes and the redemption price per share, if higher. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company for United States tax purposes, which may subject United States shareholders to adverse tax consequences. If our passive income, or our assets that produce passive income, exceed levels provided by law for any taxable year, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. If we are treated as a PFIC, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares would be subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their ordinary shares. We believe that we were not a PFIC for the tax year ended June 30, 2015 and we expect that we will not become a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, whether we are treated as a PFIC depends on questions of fact as to our assets and revenues that can only be determined at the end of each tax year. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will not be treated as a PFIC for our current tax year or for any subsequent year. If a United States shareholder acquires 10% or more of our ordinary shares, it may be subject to increased United States taxation under the controlled foreign corporation rules. Additionally, this may negatively impact the demand for our ordinary shares. If a United States shareholder owns 10% or more of our ordinary shares, it may be subject to increased United States federal income taxation (and possibly state income taxation) under the controlled foreign corporation rules. In general, each U.S. person who owns (or is deemed to own) at least 10% of the voting power of a non-U.S. corporation, 10% U.S. Shareholder, and if such non-U.S. corporation is a controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, then such 10% U.S. Shareholder who owns (or is deemed to own) shares in the CFC on the last day of the CFC's taxable year, must include in its gross income for United States federal income tax (and possibly state income tax) purposes its pro rata share of the CFC's subpart F income, even if the "subpart F income" is not distributed. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if one or more 10% U.S. Shareholders together own more than 50% of the voting power or value of the corporation on any day during the taxable year of the corporation. Subpart F income consists of, among other things, certain types of dividends, interest, rents, royalties, gains, and certain types of income from services and personal property sales. The rules for determining ownership for purposes of determining 10% U.S. Shareholder and CFC status are complicated, depend on the particular facts relating to each investor, and are not necessarily the same as the rules for determining beneficial ownership for SEC reporting purposes. For taxable years in which we are a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more, each of our 10% U.S. Shareholders will be required to include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our "subpart F income", even if the subpart F income is not distributed by us. We currently do not believe we are a CFC. However, whether we are treated as a CFC can be affected by, among other things, facts as to our share ownership that may change. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will not be treated as a CFC for our current tax year or any subsequent tax year. 26 The risk of being subject to increased taxation as a CFC may deter our current shareholders from acquiring additional ordinary shares or new shareholders from establishing a position in our ordinary shares. Either of these scenarios could impact the demand for, and value of, our ordinary shares. We will pay taxes even if we are not profitable on a consolidated basis, which would harm our results of operations. The intercompany service and related agreements among Cimpress N.V. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries ensure that many of the subsidiaries realize profits based on their operating expenses. As a result, if the Cimpress group is less profitable, or even not profitable on a consolidated basis, many of our subsidiaries will be profitable and incur income taxes in their respective jurisdictions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We own real property including for the following manufacturing operations: A 582,000 square foot facility located near Windsor, Ontario, Canada primarily services our Vistaprint Business Unit in the North American market. A 362,000 square foot facility located in Venlo, the Netherlands services our Vistaprint Business Unit and All Other Business Units in the European market. A 124,000 square foot facility located in Deer Park, Australia primarily services our Vistaprint Business Unit in the Asia-Pacific markets. Two facilities, a total of 125,000 square feet, located near Montpellier, France primarily service our All Other Business Units throughout the French market. As of June 30, 2015, a summary of our currently occupied leased spaces is as follows: Business Segment Square Feet Type Lease Expirations Vistaprint Business Unit (1) 493,281 Technology development, marketing, customer service and administrative December 2015 - June 2024 All Other Business Units 512,660 Technology development, marketing, customer service, manufacturing and administrative October 2015 - July 2024 Other (2) 77,720 Corporate strategy, technology development and prototyping laboratory January 2018 - June 2023 ___________________ (1) Includes our current lease of a 202,000 square foot facility in Lexington, Massachusetts, which contains technology development, marketing and administrative employees and is included in the Vistaprint Business Unit, although also used by Corporate and Global Functions. In the first quarter of fiscal 2016 we will commence an eleven year lease and will move our Lexington operations to a new 302,000 square foot facility in Waltham, Massachusetts. See Note 6 in our accompanying financial statements in this Report for a discussion of this transaction. (2) Includes locations that are exclusively corporate or global functions. We believe that the total space available to us in the facilities we own or lease, and space that is obtainable by us on commercially reasonable terms, will meet our needs for the foreseeable future. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth in Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 18 Commitments and Contingencies, in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Report. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. 27 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The ordinary shares of Cimpress N.V. are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (the "NASDAQ") under the symbol CMPR. As of July 31, 2015, there were approximately 15 holders of record of our ordinary shares, although there is a much larger number of beneficial owners. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale price per share of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ: High Low Fiscal 2014: First Quarter $ 56.78 $ 48.37 Second Quarter $ 57.66 $ 51.92 Third Quarter $ 55.20 $ 46.95 Fourth Quarter $ 53.42 $ 38.58 Fiscal 2015: First Quarter $ 55.06 $ 37.05 Second Quarter $ 76.68 $ 52.13 Third Quarter $ 86.78 $ 67.41 Fourth Quarter $ 91.75 $ 79.81 Dividends We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our ordinary shares, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to finance the growth and operations of our business, purchase our ordinary shares, or pay down our debt. Under Dutch law, we may pay dividends only out of profits shown on our annual accounts prepared in accordance with Dutch generally accepted accounting principles and adopted by our shareholders, and only to the extent our equity exceeds the sum of the paid and called up portion of our ordinary share capital and the reserves that must be maintained in accordance with provisions of Dutch law and our articles of association. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities On December 11, 2014, in order to provide us with flexibility to repurchase our ordinary shares at times when our management believes it may be beneficial for our business, our Supervisory Board authorized the repurchase of up to 6,400,000 of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares on the open market (including block trades that satisfy the safe harbor provisions of Rule 10b-18 pursuant to the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934), through privately negotiated transactions, or in one or more self-tender offers. This share repurchase authorization expires on May 12, 2016, and we may suspend or discontinue the repurchase program at any time. Our Supervisory Board approved this repurchase program pursuant to the authorization we received from our shareholders in November 2014. We did not repurchase any shares during the three months ended June 30, 2015, and 6,400,000 shares remain available for repurchase under this program, subject to certain limitations imposed by our debt covenants. 28 Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total return to shareholders of Cimpress N.V. ordinary shares relative to the cumulative total returns of the NASDAQ Composite index and the RDG Internet Composite index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in our ordinary shares and in each of the indexes on June 30, 2010 and the relative performance of each investment is tracked through June 30, 2015. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN Among Cimpress N.V., the NASDAQ Composite Index and the RDG Internet Composite Index Year Ended June 30, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Cimpress N.V. $ 100.00 $ 100.76 $ 68.01 $ 103.96 $ 85.20 $ 177.22 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 132.14 142.90 169.55 223.20 253.21 RDG Internet Composite 100.00 147.84 155.42 199.93 277.95 301.80 The share price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future share price performance. 29 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, the related notes and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Report. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Year Ended June 30, 2015 (a) 2014 (b)(c) 2013 (c) 2012 (d) 2011 (In thousands, except share and per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 1,494,206 $ 1,270,236 $ 1,167,478 $ 1,020,269 $ 817,009 Net income attributable to Cimpress N.V. 92,212 43,696 29,435 43,994 82,109 Net income per share attributable to Cimpress N.V.: Basic $ 2.82 $ 1.33 $ 0.89 $ 1.16 $ 1.89 Diluted $ 2.73 $ 1.28 $ 0.85 $ 1.13 $ 1.83 Shares used in computing net income per share attributable to Cimpress N.V.: Basic 32,644,870 32,873,234 33,209,172 37,813,504 43,431,326 Diluted 33,816,498 34,239,909 34,472,004 38,953,179 44,951,199 Year Ended June 30, 2015 (a) 2014 (b)(c) 2013 (c) 2012 (d) 2011 (In thousands) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 228,876 $ 148,580 $ 140,012 $ 140,641 $ 162,633 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (75,813 ) (72,122 ) (78,999 ) (46,420 ) (37,405 ) Purchases of ordinary shares (42,016 ) (64,351 ) (309,701 ) (56,935 ) Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired (123,804 ) (216,384 ) (180,675 ) Net proceeds (payments) of debt 54,207 207,946 8,051 227,181 (5,222 ) As of June 30, 2015 (a) 2014 (b)(c) 2013 (c) 2012 (d) 2011 (In thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (e) $ 110,494 $ 76,365 $ 50,065 $ 62,203 $ 237,081 Working capital (e) (89,580 ) (83,560 ) (54,795 ) (26,381 ) 178,485 Total assets 1,308,242 988,985 601,567 592,429 555,900 Total long-term debt, excluding current portion (f) 499,941 410,484 230,000 229,000 Total shareholders equity 249,419 232,457 189,561 189,287 450,093 ___________________ (a) Includes the impact of the acquisitions of FotoKnudsen AS on July 1, 2014, FL Print SAS on April 9, 2015, Exagroup SAS on April 15, 2015 and druck.at Druck-und Handelsgesellschft mbH on April 17, 2015, as well as our investment in Printi LLC on August 7, 2014. See Notes 8 , 15 and 1 6 in our accompanying financial statements in this Report for a discussion of these transactions. (b) Includes the impact of the acquisitions of Printdeal B.V. (formerly known as People & Print Group B.V.) on April 1, 2014 and Pixartprinting S.p.A. on April 3, 2014, as well as our investment in a joint business arrangement with Plaza Create Co. Ltd. in February 2014. See Notes 8 and 1 5 in our accompanying financial statements in this Report for a discussion of these transactions. (c) Includes the impact of our July 10, 2012 equity investment in Namex Limited. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 we disposed of this investment and recognized a loss on the sale of $12.7 million. See Note 16 in our accompanying financial statements in this Report for a discussion of this investment. (d) Includes the impact of the acquisitions of Albumprinter Holding B.V. on October 31, 2011 and Webs, Inc. on December 28, 2011. See Note 8 in our accompanying financial statements in this Report for a discussion of these acquisitions. (e) We define working capital as current assets less current liabilities. Our working capital profile has evolved since fiscal 2011 as we have made long-term investments that seek to drive shareholder value through acquisitions, ordinary share purchases, and other strategic initiatives. We have financed these investments through a mix of cash on hand, cash flows generated from operations and external debt financing. (f) On March 24, 2015, we completed a private placement of $275.0 million of 7.0% senior unsecured notes due 2022. The proceeds from the sales of the notes were used to repay existing outstanding indebtedness under our unsecured line of credit, the indebtedness outstanding under our senior secured credit facility and for general corporate purposes. See Note 11 in our accompanying financial statements in this Report for additional discussion. 30 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including but not limited to our statements about anticipated income and revenue growth rates, future profitability and market share, new and expanded products and services, geographic expansion and planned capital expenditures. Without limiting the foregoing, the words may, should, could, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, designed, potential, continue, target, seek and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements included in this Report are based on information available to us up to, and including the date of this document, and we disclaim any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain important factors, including those set forth in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report. You should carefully review those factors and also carefully review the risks outlined in other documents that we file from time to time with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Executive Overview On November 14, 2014, pursuant to our shareholders approval, we amended our articles of association to change our name to Cimpress N.V. and began trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the "CMPR" ticker symbol shortly afterward. Cimpress, the world leader in mass customization, is a technology and manufacturing-driven company that aggregates, via the Internet, large volumes of small, individually customized orders for a broad spectrum of print, signage, apparel and similar products. We produce those orders in highly automated, capital and technology intensive production facilities in a manner that we believe makes our production techniques significantly more competitive than those of traditional suppliers. We bring our products to market through a portfolio of focused brands serving the needs of small and medium businesses and consumers. These brands include Vistaprint, our global brand for micro business marketing products and services, as well as brands that we have acquired that serve the needs of various market segments, including resellers, small and medium businesses with differentiated service needs, and consumers purchasing products for themselves and their families. In July 2014, we changed our internal management reporting structure from geographic-based segments to brand-based segments, resulting in the Vistaprint Business Unit and the All Other Business Units reportable segments. The Vistaprint Business Unit represents our core Vistaprint brand focused on the North America, Europe, Australia and New Zealand markets, and our Webs branded business, which is managed with the Vistaprint-branded digital business. The All Other Business Unit is an aggregation of the smaller businesses in our portfolio - Albumprinter, Printdeal (formerly known as People & Print Group), Pixartprinting and the Most of World business units, as well as the operations of our fiscal 2015 acquisitions of FotoKnudsen AS, FL Print SAS (referred to as Easyflyer), Exagroup SAS and druck.at Druck-und Handelsgesellschft mbH (referred to as druck.at). For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 , we reported consolidated revenue of $1,494 million representing 18% reported revenue growth over the prior year and 23% growth in constant-currency terms. During fiscal 2015 we made several strategic acquisitions to help us reach differentiated customers through distinct brands and give us access to a broader product offering over time. Consolidated constant-currency revenue growth, excluding the revenue of businesses and brands that do not have a comparable revenue in the prior twelve months, was 9% for the year ended June 30, 2015. Diluted earnings per share for the year ended June 30, 2015 increased 113% to $2.73 as compared to the prior year. This increase was driven by the improved operating performance of our Vistaprint brand as well as the results of our other brands acquired in fiscal 2014 and 2015. These improvements were partially offset by continued investments in product quality and software development in our core business, as well as investments in markets in which we seek to develop a long-term presence such as India, Japan and Brazil. We believe investments such as these, as well as our other key initiatives, will collectively enable us to scale and strengthen our competitive position and enhance long-term shareholder value. In addition, we recognized $14.9 million of expense during the year ended June 30, 2015 for changes in the contingent consideration liabilities associated with our acquisitions of Printdeal and Pixartprinting, $11.5 million of additional acquisition related amortization expense, as well as $9.0 31 million of incremental interest expense primarily due to our increased borrowing levels under our credit facility and the issuance of our senior unsecured notes in March 2015. We also recognized significant gains from currency movements in fiscal 2015, as compared to losses in fiscal 2014, principally as a result of changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments for which we have not elected hedge accounting and currency gains on non-functional currency activity, principally from intercompany transactional and financing relationships. During fiscal 2014 we recognized a $12.7 million loss on the sale of our investment in Namex Limited that did not occur in fiscal 2015. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). To apply these principles, we must make estimates and judgments that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some instances, we reasonably could have used different accounting estimates and, in other instances, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates and judgments of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. This section should be read in conjunction with Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report. Revenue Recognition. We generate revenue primarily from the sale and shipping of customized manufactured products, as well as providing digital services, website design and hosting, email marketing services, and order referral fees. We recognize revenue arising from sales of products and services, net of discounts and applicable indirect taxes, when it is realized or realizable and earned. We consider revenue realized or realizable and earned when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a product has been shipped or service rendered with no significant post-delivery obligation on our part, the net sales price is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. For arrangements with multiple deliverables, we allocate revenue to each deliverable based on the relative selling price for each deliverable. We determine the relative selling price using a hierarchy of (1) company specific objective and reliable evidence, then (2) third-party evidence, then (3) best estimate of selling price. Shipping, handling and processing charges billed to customers are included in revenue at the time of shipment or rendering of service. Revenues from sales of prepaid orders on our websites are deferred until shipment of fulfilled orders or until the prepaid service has been rendered. For promotions through discount voucher websites, we recognize revenue on a gross basis, as we are the primary obligor, when redeemed items are shipped. As the vouchers do not expire, any unredeemed vouchers are recorded as deferred revenue. We recognize revenue on the portion of unredeemed vouchers when the likelihood of redemption becomes remote (referred to as "breakage") and we determine there is no legal obligation to remit the value of the unredeemed coupons to government agencies. We estimate the breakage rate based upon the pattern of historical redemptions. Prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we did not have sufficient historical redemption data to reasonably estimate breakage and, therefore, did not recognize any breakage revenue. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we concluded that we have now accumulated sufficient historical data from a large pool of homogeneous transactions to allow us to reasonably and objectively determine a pattern of historical redemptions in accordance with our accounting policy. Accordingly, we recognized $4.0 million of breakage revenue during the quarter as a result of this change in estimate. We will apply this approach prospectively for future unredeemed voucher activity. A reserve for estimated sales returns and allowances is recorded as a reduction of revenue, based on historical experience or specific identification of an event necessitating a reserve. This reserve is dependent upon customer return practices and will vary during the year due to volume or specific reserve requirements. Sales returns have not historically been significant to our net revenue and have been within our estimates. Share-Based Compensation. We measure share-based compensation costs at fair value, including estimated forfeitures, and recognize the expense over the period that the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the award, which generally is the vesting period. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to measure the fair value of most of our share options and use a lattice model to measure the fair value of share options with a market condition, as well as the subsidiary share option liability award granted in conjunction with the Pixartprinting acquisition. The Black-Scholes model requires significant estimates related to the awards expected 32 life and future share price volatility of the underlying equity security. The lattice model considers market condition attributes in its valuation assessment where relevant and simulates various sources of uncertainty in order to determine an average value based on the range of resultant outcomes. The lattice model requires estimation of inputs such as future share price volatility, future operating performance, and a forfeiture rate assessment. The fair value of restricted share units and restricted share awards is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our ordinary shares on the date of the grant. In determining the amount of expense to be recorded, we also estimate forfeiture rates for all awards based on historical experience to reflect the probability that employees will complete the required service period. Employee retention patterns could vary in the future and result in a change to our estimated forfeiture rate which would directly impact share-based compensation expense. As a measure of sensitivity, a 100 basis point change in our forfeiture rate estimate would have resulted in an immaterial impact on our consolidated statement of operations for all periods. For awards with a performance condition vesting feature, when achievement of the performance condition is deemed probable, we recognize compensation cost on a graded-vesting basis over the awards' expected vesting periods. Management continually monitors the probability of vesting that is impacted by the achievement of certain business targets and milestones. Independent factors such as market acceptance, technological feasibility or economic market volatility could impact the achievement of such awards and contribute to variability in management's estimate and the recognition of the underlying share-based compensation expense. As the recognition of the compensation expense is reliant upon management's estimate of the likelihood of achievement of the award, if the probability increases during any given period, the compensation cost associated with that award would be accelerated in order to match the estimated outcome. These changes in estimate could result in expense volatility. Income Taxes. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our current tax expense, including assessing the risks associated with tax positions, together with assessing temporary and permanent differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and financial reporting purposes. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the temporary differences using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect temporary differences to reverse. We assess the ability to realize our deferred tax assets based upon the weight of available evidence both positive and negative. To the extent we believe that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance. Our estimates can vary due to the profitability mix of jurisdictions, foreign exchange movements, changes in tax law, regulations or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. In the event that actual results differ from our estimates or we adjust our estimates in the future, we may need to increase or decrease income tax expense, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are in accordance with applicable tax laws. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, new tax legislation, or the change of an estimate based on new information. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Interest and, if applicable, penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in the provision for income taxes. Software and Website Development Costs. We capitalize eligible salaries and payroll-related costs of employees who devote time to the development of our websites and internal-use computer software. Capitalization begins when the preliminary project stage is complete, management with the relevant authority authorizes and commits to the funding of the software project, and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. These costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the software, which is three years. Our judgment is required in determining whether a project provides new or additional functionality, the point at which various projects enter the stages at which costs may be capitalized, assessing the ongoing value and impairment of the capitalized costs, and determining the estimated useful lives over which the costs are amortized. Historically we have not had any significant impairments of our capitalized software and website development costs. Business Combinations. We recognize the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is 33 based on detailed cash flow valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management. The valuations are dependent upon a myriad of factors including historical financial results, estimated customer renewal rates, projected operating costs and discount rates. We estimate the fair value of contingent consideration at the time of the acquisition using all pertinent information known to us at the time to assess the probability of payment of contingent amounts. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to goodwill. The assumptions used in the valuations for our fiscal 2014 and 2015 acquisitions may differ materially from actual results depending on performance of the acquired businesses and other factors. While we believe the assumptions used were appropriate, different assumptions in the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed could have a material impact on the timing and extent of impact on our statements of operations. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units as of the date of the related acquisition. If goodwill is assigned to more than one reporting unit, we utilize a method that is consistent with the manner in which the amount of goodwill in a business combination is determined. Costs related to the acquisition of a business are expensed as incurred. Goodwill, Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets, and Other Definite Lived Long-Lived Assets. We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. For our annual impairment test as of January 1, 2015, we evaluated each of our five reporting units with goodwill individually. We considered the timing of our most recent fair value assessment and associated headroom, the actual operating results as compared to the cash flow forecasts used in those fair value assessments, the current long-term forecasts for each reporting unit, and the general market and economic environment of each reporting unit. Our qualitative assessment for fiscal 2015 determined that there was no indication that the carrying value of any of our reporting units exceeded its fair value. In addition, there have been no indications of impairment that would require an updated analysis as of June 30, 2015. In addition to the specific factors mentioned above, we assess the following individual factors on an ongoing basis such as: A significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate; An adverse action or assessment by a regulator; Unanticipated competition; A loss of key personnel; and A more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of. If the results of the qualitative analysis were to indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the quantitative test is required. Under the quantitative approach, we estimate the fair values of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows are based on our strategic plans and best estimates of revenue growth and operating profit by each reporting unit. Our annual analysis requires significant judgment, including the identification and aggregation of reporting units, discount rate and perpetual growth rate assumptions, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. While we believe our assumptions are reasonable, actual results could differ from our projections. We are required to evaluate the estimated useful lives and recoverability of definite lived long-lived assets (for example, customer relationships, developed technology, property, and equipment) on an ongoing basis when indicators of impairment are present. For purposes of the recoverability test, long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. The test for recoverability compares the undiscounted future cash flows of the long-lived asset group to its carrying value. If the carrying values of the long-lived asset group exceed the undiscounted future cash flows, the assets are considered to be potentially impaired. The next step in the impairment measurement process is to determine the fair value of the individual net assets within the long-lived asset group. If the aggregate fair values of the individual net assets of the group are less than the carrying values, an impairment charge is recorded equal to the excess of the aggregate carrying value of the group over the aggregate fair value. The loss is allocated to each long-lived asset within the group based on their relative carrying 34 values, with no asset reduced below its fair value. The identification and evaluation of a potential impairment requires judgment and is subject to change if events or circumstances pertaining to our business change. Recently Issued or Adopted Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Recently Issued or Adopted Accounting Pronouncements." Results of Operations The following table presents our operating results for the periods indicated as a percentage of revenue: Year Ended June 30, 2015 2014 2013 As a percentage of revenue: Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 38.1 % 35.5 % 34.3 % Technology and development expense 13.0 % 13.9 % 14.1 % Marketing and selling expense 32.8 % 34.6 % 38.2 % General and administrative expense 9.7 % 9.2 % 9.4 % Income from operations 6.4 % 6.8 % 4.0 % Other income (expense), net 1.3 % (1.7 )% % Interest expense, net (1.1 )% (0.6 )% (0.5 )% Income before income taxes and loss in equity interests 6.6 % 4.5 % 3.5 % Income tax provision 0.6 % 0.8 % 0.8 % Loss in equity interests % 0.2 % 0.2 % Net income 6.0 % 3.5 % 2.5 % Add: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests 0.2 % % % Net income attributable to Cimpress N.V. 6.2 % 3.5 % 2.5 % In thousands Year Ended June 30, Year Ended June 30, 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 Revenue $ 1,494,206 $ 1,270,236 $ 1,167,478 18 % 9 % Revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale and shipping of customized manufactured products, and by providing digital services, website design and hosting, email marketing services, as well as a small percentage from order referral fees and other third-party offerings. Total revenue by reportable segment for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013 are shown in the following table. Fiscal 2015 includes the impact of FotoKnudsen, Easyflyer, Exagroup and druck.at from their respective acquisition dates in our All Other Business Units segment. Fiscal 2014 includes the impact of Printdeal and Pixartprinting from their respective acquisition dates in our All Other Business Units segment: 35 In thousands Year Ended June 30, Currency Impact: Constant- Currency Impact of Acquisitions: Constant- Currency Revenue Growth 2015 2014 % Change (Favorable)/Unfavorable Revenue Growth (1) (Favorable)/Unfavorable Excluding Acquisitions (2) Vistaprint Business Unit $ 1,194,393 $ 1,144,030 4% 5% 9% % 9% All Other Business Units 299,813 126,206 138% 17% 155% (139)% 16% Total revenue $ 1,494,206 $ 1,270,236 18% 5% 23% (14)% 9% In thousands Year Ended June 30, Currency Impact: Constant- Currency Impact of Acquisitions: Constant-Currency Revenue Growth 2014 2013 % Change (Favorable)/Unfavorable Revenue Growth (1) (Favorable)/Unfavorable Excluding Acquisitions (2) Vistaprint Business Unit $ 1,144,030 $ 1,091,900 5% (1)% 4% % 4% All Other Business Units 126,206 75,578 67% (4)% 63% (56)% 7% Total revenue $ 1,270,236 $ 1,167,478 9% (1)% 8% (4)% 4% ___________________ (1) Constant-currency revenue growth, a non-GAAP financial measure, represents the change in total revenue between current and prior year periods at constant-currency exchange rates by translating all non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue generated in the current period using the prior year periods average exchange rate for each currency to the U.S. dollar. (2) Constant-Currency Revenue Growth Excluding Acquisitions excludes revenue results for businesses and brands in the period in which there is no comparable year over year revenue. For example, revenue from Pixartprinting and Printdeal, which we acquired in Q4 2014, is excluded from Q1, Q2, and Q3 2015 revenue growth but included in Q4 2015 revenue growth. Similarly, since we acquired Fotoknudsen, Easyflyer, Exagroup, and druck.at in fiscal 2015, revenues from these businesses are excluded from both fiscal 2014 and 2015 revenue growth, and revenues from Pixartprinting and Printdeal are excluded from fiscal 2014 revenue growth. We have provided these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe they provide meaningful information regarding our results on a consistent and comparable basis for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures, in addition to GAAP financial measures, to evaluate our operating results. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered supplemental to and not a substitute for our reported financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Vistaprint Business Unit Reported revenue for the year ended June 30, 2015 increased 4% to $1,194.4 million as compared to the year ended June 30, 2014 as the Vistaprint Business Unit experienced growth from the higher expectations market segment, increased average order value and improved activity from our repeat customer base. During the year we delivered improved revenue growth trends in the U.S., U.K., French and German markets where we made major pricing and channel marketing changes in fiscal 2014. Our reported revenue growth was negatively affected by currency impacts of 5% during the year ended June 30, 2015 resulting in constant-currency revenue growth of 9% . Our constant-currency revenue growth for the Vistaprint Business Unit more than doubled from fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2015 . In addition we have seen year over year improvement in our customer Net Promoter Score (which polls our customers on their willingness to recommend us to friends and colleagues based on a score of 0 to 10). We are starting to see net reductions in fiscal 2015 of the major headwinds caused by our transformation efforts of our customer value proposition in our largest business, the Vistaprint brand. This multi-year transformation began in 2011 and is intended over time to improve customer loyalty and long-term returns through improvements to pricing consistency and transparency, site experience, customer communications, product selection, product quality, merchandising, marketing messaging and customer service. Although some of these efforts continue to create revenue headwinds in certain markets we have started to realize benefits from these investments in fiscal 2015 through improved customer retention rates and our increased Net Promoter Score. Revenue for the year ended June 30, 2014 increased 5% to $1,144.0 million compared to the year ended June 30, 2013 due to increases in sales across our product and service offerings. During the third quarter of 2014, we rolled out significant pricing changes in two of our top markets: the U.S. and Germany. These changes were designed to help us improve customer lifetime value and loyalty over time, but created near-term revenue headwinds in the Vistaprint Business Unit for the second half of fiscal 2014, particularly in our third fiscal quarter. The Vistaprint Business Unit delivered annual reported and constant-currency revenue growth of 4% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, as successful programs to drive customer value that we started two years ago helped to offset the negative impact of the pricing changes. 36 All Other Business Units Revenue for the year ended June 30, 2015 increased to $299.8 million from $126.2 million in the year ended June 30, 2014 , primarily due to the addition of aggregate revenues of $171.2 million from the companies we acquired in fiscal 2014 and 2015. We also delivered continued growth in our Albumprinter brand, as well as in our smaller markets in our Most of World business. Revenue for the year ended June 30, 2014 increased to $126.2 million from $75.6 million in the prior comparable period, primarily due to the addition of revenue from Printdeal and Pixartprinting, which we acquired in the our fourth quarter fiscal 2014. The 67% increase in the reported revenue of our other business units was primarily due to the addition of revenue from the companies we acquired in fiscal 2014. The following table summarizes our comparative operating expenses for the period: In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 Cost of revenue $ 568,599 $ 451,093 $ 400,293 26 % 13% % of revenue 38.1 % 35.5 % 34.3 % Technology and development expense $ 194,360 $ 176,344 $ 164,859 10 % 7% % of revenue 13.0 % 13.9 % 14.1 % Marketing and selling expense $ 489,743 $ 440,311 $ 446,116 11 % (1)% % of revenue 32.8 % 34.6 % 38.2 % General and administrative expense $ 145,180 $ 116,574 $ 110,086 25 % 6% % of revenue 9.7 % 9.2 % 9.4 % Cost of revenue Cost of revenue includes materials used to manufacture our products, payroll and related expenses for production personnel, depreciation of assets used in the production process and in support of digital marketing service offerings, shipping, handling and processing costs, third-party production costs, costs of free products and other related costs of products sold by us. Cost of revenue as a percent of revenue increased during the year ended June 30, 2015 , as the operations we acquired in fiscal 2014 and 2015 have a lower gross margin profile than our traditional business; however, these companies have lower marketing and selling costs. The Vistaprint Business Unit cost of revenue increased to $381.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2015 from $377.4 million for the year ended June 30, 2014 , due to increased costs associated with production volume and product mix of $33.9 million. This increase was partially offset by currency related benefits, reductions in raw material pricing, shipping costs and other productivity and efficiency gains of $30.3 million. The remaining increase in cost of revenue for the year ended June 30, 2015 as compared to the year ended June 30, 2014 was primarily due to incremental manufacturing costs of $115.4 million for the operations acquired in fiscal 2014 and 2015. The Vistaprint Business Unit cost of revenue increased to $377.4 million for the year ended June 30, 2014 from $364.1 million in the prior period, as we produced more revenue volume during fiscal 2014 as compared to the same period in fiscal 2013. We incurred incremental shipping and overhead related costs in fiscal 2014 of $3.6 million and $9.7 million , respectively. These expense increases were offset by a decline in materials related costs of $1.1 million and other productivity and efficiency gains. In addition, the fiscal 2013 period included a benefit from a non-cash gain of $1.4 million related to a free piece of equipment in our European operations that did not occur in fiscal 2014. The remaining increase in cost of revenue for the year ended June 30, 2014 as compared to the year ended June 30, 2013 was primarily due to additional manufacturing costs of $29.7 million for the acquired Printdeal and Pixartprinting operations. 37 Technology and development expense Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and related expenses for our employees engaged in software and manufacturing engineering, information technology operations and content development; amortization of capitalized software, website development costs and certain acquired intangible assets, including developed technology, hosting of our websites, asset depreciation, patent amortization, legal settlements in connection with patent-related claims, and other technology infrastructure-related costs. Depreciation expense for information technology equipment that directly supports the delivery of our digital marketing services products is included in cost of revenue. The growth in our technology and development expenses of $18.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2015 as compared to the year ended June 30, 2014 was primarily due to increased payroll and facility-related costs of $13.9 million as a result of increased headcount in our technology development and information technology support organizations. The increase in headcount is partly due to hiring in this strategic investment area, and partly due to headcount from acquired businesses. At June 30, 2015 , we employed 1,008 employees in these organizations, inclusive of employees of the businesses we acquired in 2015, compared to 887 employees at June 30, 2014 . Amortization expense increased by $1.6 million primarily due to a full year of expense related to our fiscal 2014 acquisitions, as well as the fourth quarter impact of Exagroup and druck.at. Other technology and development expense increased $9.3 million primarily due to increased consulting fees and severance related expenses. These expenses were partially offset by a decline in share-based compensation expense of $2.9 million for the year ended June 30, 2015 , as the restricted share awards granted as part of our fiscal 2012 Webs acquisition were fully vested as of December 31, 2013. Also during the year ended June 30, 2015 , we had higher net capitalization of software costs of $3.9 million due to an increase in costs that qualified for capitalization during the fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. The growth in our technology and development expenses of $11.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2014 as compared to the year ended June 30, 2013 was primarily due to increased payroll and facility-related costs of $9.5 million as a result of an increase in headcount in our technology development and information technology support organizations. At June 30, 2014 , we employed 887 employees in these organizations compared to 786 employees at June 30, 2013. Other technology and development expenses increased $4.0 million in fiscal 2014 as compared to the fiscal 2013 primarily due to restructuring charges of $1.3 million as well as increased recruitment, hosting services and other costs related to continued investment in our infrastructure. In addition, amortization expense increased by $1.1 million as a result of the Printdeal and Pixartprinting acquisitions. These expense increases were partially offset during fiscal 2014 by a decline in share-based compensation expense of $2.1 million as the restricted share awards granted as part of our fiscal 2012 Webs acquisition were fully vested as of December 31, 2013. Also during fiscal 2014, we had higher net capitalization of software costs of $1.0 million due to an increase in current costs that qualified for capitalization during the fiscal year. Marketing and selling expense Marketing and selling expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional costs; payroll and related expenses for our employees engaged in marketing, sales, customer support and public relations activities; amortization of certain acquired intangible assets, including customer relationships and trade names; and third-party payment processing fees. The increase in our marketing and selling expenses of $49.4 million during the year ended June 30, 2015 , as compared to the year ended June 30, 2014 , was partially due to increased advertising costs of $18.5 million . Our advertising cost increase was primarily due to the Vistaprint Business Unit as it launched its first brand-orientated television ad in both the U.S. and UK, as well as increased activity from our acquired operations. Our payroll and facility-related costs increased by $13.9 million , as we expanded our marketing and customer service, sales and design support organization through our recent acquisitions and continued investment in Vistaprint Business Unit customer service resources in order to provide higher value services to our customers. At June 30, 2015 , we employed 2,429 employees in these organizations, inclusive of employees of the businesses we acquired in 2015, compared to 2,038 employees at June 30, 2014 . Amortization expense increased by $10.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2015 as a result of the customer and trademark related intangible assets related to our 2014 and 2015 acquisitions. Other marketing and selling expenses also increased by $10.0 million due to increased payment processing fees, depreciation costs, employee travel, training, and recruitment costs. The increase in marketing and selling expense was partially offset by decreased share-based compensation expense of $3.1 million during the 38 year ended June 30, 2015 influenced by the restricted share awards granted as part of our fiscal 2012 Webs acquisition that were fully vested at December 31, 2013. The decrease in our marketing and selling expenses of $5.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2014, as compared to the year ended June 30, 2013, was primarily due to decreased advertising costs of $19.5 million as we executed more strategically focused spend during the year, particularly in Europe. Additionally, share-based compensation expense decreased during fiscal 2014 by $1.3 million as the restricted share awards granted as part of our fiscal 2012 Webs acquisition were fully vested at December 31, 2013. This reduction in expense was partially offset by increased payroll and facility-related costs of $6.9 million as we continued to expand our marketing organization and our customer service, sales and design support centers. At June 30, 2014, we employed 2,038 employees in these organizations compared to 1,672 employees at June 30, 2013. In addition, other marketing and selling expenses increased by $6.1 million, inclusive of $1.3 million of restructuring related expenses, as well as increased outside service costs, payment processing fees, and other marketing costs. Fiscal 2014 also includes $2.0 million of additional amortization expense for the customer and trademark related intangible assets acquired with the Printdeal and Pixartprinting businesses. General and administrative expense General and administrative expense consists primarily of transaction costs, including third-party professional fees, insurance and payroll and related expenses of employees involved in executive management, finance, legal, and human resources. During the year ended June 30, 2015 our general and administrative expenses increased as compared to fiscal 2014 by $28.6 million primarily due to an increase of $14.9 million attributable to the increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration liabilities for Printdeal and Pixartprinting since June 30, 2014. Payroll and share-based compensation expense increased by $10.7 million and $2.5 million, respectively during the year ended June 30, 2015 as compared to the prior year. At June 30, 2015 we employed 451 employees in these organizations compared to 416 employees at June 30, 2014 . Other general and administrative expenses also increased by $2.9 million due to increased employee travel, training, and recruitment costs. The increase in general and administrative expense was partially offset by decreased professional fees of $2.4 million during fiscal 2015, as fiscal 2014 included more expenses incurred primarily for certain strategic initiatives. During the year ended June 30, 2014 our general and administrative expenses increased as compared to the year ended June 30, 2013 by $6.5 million , primarily due to an increase of $5.9 million in professional fees for costs incurred related to our acquisitions and strategic investments during the year, as well as $3.2 million of employee and facility related restructuring costs. In addition, we recognized $2.2 million of expense for the increase in the fair value of the earn-out liability for both Printdeal and Pixartprinting since the dates of acquisition. These increases were partially offset by a net decrease of $4.8 million primarily related to reduced share-based compensation, recruiting costs, and other corporate charges. At June 30, 2014 we employed 416 employees in these organizations compared to 400 employees at June 30, 2013. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net generally consists of gains and losses from currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions or balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries, as well as the realized and unrealized gains and losses on our derivative instruments for which we do not apply hedge accounting. In evaluating our currency hedging program and ability to achieve hedge accounting in light of our legal entity cash flows, we considered the benefits of hedge accounting relative to the additional economic cost of trade execution and administrative burden. Based on this analysis, we decided to execute currency forward contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting.The following table summarizes the components 39 of other income (expense), net: Year Ended June 30, 2015 2014 2013 Gains (losses) on derivative instruments $ 9,317 $ (7,473 ) $ 29 Currency related gains (losses), net 10,245 (1,764 ) (92 ) Loss on disposal of Namex (12,681 ) Other gains (losses) 572 288 Total other income (expense), net $ 20,134 $ (21,630 ) $ (63 ) During fiscal 2015, we recognized $20.1 million of other income as compared to $21.6 million of losses during fiscal 2014. The increase in other income (expense), net is due in part to net gains of $9.3 million recognized on our currency forward contracts, of which $1.9 million is unrealized, as compared to net losses of $7.5 million that were recognized during fiscal 2014. We expect this volatility to continue in future periods as we do not currently apply hedge accounting for our currency forward contracts. In fiscal 2013 we elected hedge accounting for all of our currency forward contracts and therefore did not have similar results. Changes in our corporate entity operating structure, effective on October 1, 2013, required us to alter our intercompany transactional and financing activities in fiscal 2014. As a result, we have significant non-functional currency intercompany relationships subject to currency exchange rate volatility that resulted in a gain of $10.2 million during fiscal 2015, as compared to $1.8 million loss during fiscal 2014. In addition, in fiscal 2014 we recognized a loss of $12.7 million on the sale of our equity investment in Namex Limited which did not occur in fiscal 2015 or fiscal 2013 . Interest expense, net Interest expense, net was $16.7 million , $7.7 million and $5.3 million for the years ended June 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Interest expense, net primarily consists of interest paid on outstanding debt balances and amortization of debt issuance costs. The increase in interest expense, net from fiscal 2014 to 2015 is primarily a result of increased borrowing levels under our credit facility and the issuance of our senior unsecured notes in March 2015. The increase in interest expense, net from fiscal 2013 to 2014 is a result of increased borrowing levels under our credit facility. We expect interest expense, net to increase in future periods relative to historical trends as a result of our senior unsecured notes. Income tax provision Year Ended June 30, 2015 2014 2013 Income tax provision $ 10,441 $ 10,590 $ 9,387 Effective tax rate 10.5 % 18.7 % 23.0 % For the year ended June 30, 2015, our effective tax rate is 10.5% as compared to the prior year effective tax rate of 18.7%. The main causes for this decrease are higher tax benefits in fiscal 2015 related to changes to our corporate entity operating structure as described in further detail in Note 14, combined with an increase in our consolidated pre-tax income and a more favorable geographical mix of earnings as compared to fiscal 2014. These benefits to the fiscal 2015 tax rate were offset by greater losses incurred in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 in certain jurisdictions where we are unable to recognize a tax benefit. For the year ended June 30, 2014, we recognized a loss on our investment in Namex for which there was no tax benefit and this adversely impacted the effective tax rate for fiscal 2014. Our cash paid for income taxes for fiscal 2015 is higher than our income tax expense primarily as a result of non-cash tax benefits relating to tax losses for which the cash benefit is expected to occur in a future period. This was partially offset by cash tax benefits from stock-based compensation deductions that are recorded in shareholders equity. We are currently under income tax audits in various jurisdictions. We believe that our income tax reserves associated with these matters are adequate as the positions reported on our tax returns will be sustained on their 40 technical merits. However, final resolution is uncertain and there is a possibility that it could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 14 in our accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data: In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2015 2014 2013 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 228,876 $ 148,580 $ 140,012 Net cash used in investing activities (217,190 ) (306,984 ) (98,931 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 38,312 169,608 (53,255 ) At June 30, 2015 , we had $103.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $522.5 million of outstanding debt. Cash and cash equivalents increased by $41.1 million during the year ended June 30, 2015 . This increase is primarily attributable to the cash held by the businesses we acquired during fiscal 2015 and the timing of funding for certain intercompany cash requirements. We expect cash and cash equivalents to fluctuate over time depending on our working capital needs and acquisition activity. The cash flows during the year ended June 30, 2015 related primarily to the following items: Cash inflows: Net income of $89.3 million ; Adjustments for non-cash items of $104.2 million primarily related to positive adjustments for depreciation and amortization of $97.5 million , share-based compensation costs of $24.1 million , and the change in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities of $ 14.9 million , offset by negative adjustments for non-cash tax items of $28.1 million and unrealized currency-related gains of $6.5 million ; Proceeds of debt of $54.2 million , net of payments; Changes in working capital balances of $43.4 million primarily driven by improved management of prepaid expenses and accrued expenses; and Proceeds from the issuance of shares in connection with the exercise of outstanding equity awards of $13.1 million . Cash outflows: Capital expenditures of $75.8 million of which $33.7 million were related to the purchase of manufacturing and automation equipment for our production facilities, $18.3 million were related to the purchase of land, facilities and leasehold improvements, and $23.8 million were related to purchases of other capital assets, including facility improvements and office equipment; Payments for our acquisition and minority investment activity, net of cash acquired, of $123.8 million ; Payments of withholding taxes in connection with share awards of $29.4 million ; Payment of contingent consideration obligation of $19.2 million ; Internal costs for software and website development that we have capitalized of $17.3 million ; and Payments for capital lease arrangements of $5.8 million . Additional Liquidity and Capital Resources Information. During the year ended June 30, 2015 , we financed our operations and strategic investments through internally generated cash flows from operations and debt financing. As of June 30, 2015 , approximately $102.9 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our 41 subsidiaries, and undistributed earnings of our subsidiaries that are considered to be indefinitely reinvested were $59.0 million. We do not intend to repatriate such funds as the cash and cash equivalent balances are generally used and available, without legal restrictions, to fund ordinary business operations and investments of the respective subsidiaries. If there is a change in the future, the repatriation of undistributed earnings from certain subsidiaries, in the form of dividends or otherwise, could have tax consequences that could result in material cash outflows. See Note 14 in our accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Debt. On March 24, 2015, we completed a private placement of $275.0 million of 7.0% senior unsecured notes due 2022. The proceeds from the sales of the notes were used to repay existing outstanding indebtedness under our unsecured line of credit and senior secured credit facility and for general corporate purposes. As of June 30, 2015, we have aggregate loan commitments from our senior secured credit facility totaling $844.0 million . The loan commitments consist of revolving loans of $690.0 million and the remaining term loans of $154.0 million . We have other financial obligations that constitute additional indebtedness based on the definitions within the credit facility. As of June 30, 2015 , the amount available for borrowing under our senior secured credit facility was as follows: In thousands June 30, 2015 Maximum aggregate available for borrowing $ 844,000 Outstanding borrowings of senior secured credit facilities (232,000 ) Remaining amount 612,000 Limitations to borrowing due to debt covenants and other obligations (1) (22,403 ) Amount available for borrowing as of June 30, 2015 (2) $ 589,597 _________________ (1) Our borrowing ability under our senior secured credit facility can be limited by our debt covenants each quarter. These covenants may limit our borrowing capacity depending on our leverage, other indebtedness, such as notes, capital leases, letters of credit, and any other debt, as well as other factors that are outlined in the credit agreement. (2) The use of available borrowings for share purchases, dividend payments, or corporate acquisitions is subject to more restrictive covenants that can lower available borrowings for such purposes relative to the general availability described in the above table. Debt Covenants . Our credit agreement contains financial and other covenants, including but not limited to the following: (1) The credit agreement contains financial covenants calculated on a trailing twelve month, or TTM, basis that: our total leverage ratio, which is the ratio of our consolidated total indebtedness (*) to our TTM consolidated EBITDA (*), will not exceed 4.50 to 1.00. our senior secured leverage ratio, which is the ratio of our consolidated senior secured indebtedness (*) to our TTM consolidated EBITDA (*), will not exceed 3.25 to 1.00. our interest coverage ratio, which is the ratio of our consolidated EBITDA to our consolidated interest expense, will be at least 3.00 to 1.00. (2) Purchases of our ordinary shares, payments of dividends, and corporate acquisitions and dispositions are subject to more restrictive consolidated leverage ratio thresholds than those listed above when calculated on a proforma basis in certain scenarios. Also, regardless of our leverage ratio, the credit agreement limits the amount of purchases of our ordinary shares, payments of dividends, corporate acquisitions and dispositions, investments in joint ventures or minority interests, and consolidated capital expenditures that we may make. These limitations can include annual limits that vary from year-to-year and aggregate limits over the term of the credit facility. Therefore, our ability to make desired investments may be limited during the term of our senior secured credit facility. (3) The credit agreement also places limitations on additional indebtedness and liens that we may incur, as well as on certain intercompany activities. 42 (*) The definitions of EBITDA, consolidated total indebtedness, and consolidated senior secured indebtedness are maintained in our credit agreement included as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed on February 13, 2013, as amended by amendments no. 1 and no. 2 to the credit agreement included as exhibits to our Forms 8-K filed on January 22, 2014 and September 25, 2014. The indenture under which our 7.0% senior unsecured notes due 2022 are issued contains various covenants, including covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, limit our and our restricted subsidiaries ability to incur and/or guarantee additional debt; pay dividends, repurchase shares or make certain other restricted payments; enter into agreements limiting dividends and certain other restricted payments; prepay, redeem or repurchase subordinated debt; grant liens on assets; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; merge, consolidate or transfer or dispose of substantially all of our consolidated assets; sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of property and assets; and engage in transactions with affiliates. Our credit agreement and senior unsecured notes indenture also contain customary representations, warranties and events of default. As of June 30, 2015 , we were in compliance with all financial and other covenants under the credit agreement and senior unsecured notes indenture. Other debt. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 we assumed term loans as part of the druck.at, Exagroup and Easyflyer acquisitions. As of June 30, 2015 we had $11.5 million outstanding for those obligations that are payable through September 2024. In addition, we have an uncommitted line of credit with Santander Bank, N.A., and under the terms of the agreement we may borrow up to $25.0 million at any time, with a maturity date of up to 90 days from the loan origination date. Under the terms of our uncommitted line of credit, borrowings bear interest at a variable rate of interest that may change from time to time. As of June 30, 2015 we had $4.5 million outstanding borrowings under this line of credit. Our expectations for fiscal year 2016. Our current liabilities continue to exceed our current assets; however, we believe that our available cash, cash flows generated from operations, and our debt financing capacity will be sufficient to satisfy our liabilities and planned investments to support our long-term growth strategy for the foreseeable future. We endeavor to invest large amounts of capital that we believe will generate returns that are above our weighted average cost of capital. We consider any use of cash that we expect to require more than 12 months to return our invested capital to be an allocation of capital. For fiscal 2016 we expect to allocate capital to the following broad categories and consider our capital to be fungible across all of these categories: Large, discrete, internally developed projects that we believe can, over the longer term provide us with materially important competitive capabilities and/or positions in new markets, such as investments in our software, service operations and other supporting capabilities for our integrated platform, costs incurred for post-merger integration efforts and expansion into new geographic markets. Other organic investments intended to maintain or improve our competitive position or support growth, such as costs to develop new products and expand product attributes, production and IT capacity expansion, VBU related advertising costs and the continued investment in our employees. Share purchases Corporate acquisitions and similar Investments Reduction of debt 43 Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations at June 30, 2015 are as follows: In thousands Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating leases, net of subleases $ 39,227 $ 7,697 $ 10,469 $ 8,120 $ 12,941 Build-to-suit lease 131,769 10,475 25,138 25,138 71,018 Purchase commitments 27,052 27,052 Senior unsecured notes and interest payments 410,178 19,678 38,500 38,500 313,500 Other debt and interest payments 269,852 28,964 52,382 186,615 1,891 Capital leases 24,103 9,150 11,937 2,981 35 Other 24,195 11,102 9,694 3,399 Total (1) $ 926,376 $ 114,118 $ 148,120 $ 264,753 $ 399,385 ___________________ (1) We may be required to make cash outlays related to our uncertain tax positions. However, due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with our uncertain tax positions, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. Accordingly, uncertain tax positions of $5.7 million as of June 30, 2015 have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. For further information on uncertain tax positions, see Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Operating Leases. We rent office space under operating leases expiring on various dates through 2024. Future minimum rental payments required under our leases are an aggregate of approximately $39.2 million . The terms of certain lease agreements require security deposits in the form of bank guarantees and a letter of credit in the amount of $1.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Build-to-suit lease. In July 2013, we executed a lease for an eleven-year term to move our Lexington, Massachusetts, USA operations to a new facility in Waltham, Massachusetts, USA, that will commence in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Please refer to Note 6 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional details . Purchase Commitments. At June 30, 2015 , we had unrecorded commitments under contract of $27.1 million , which were composed of inventory purchase commitments of approximately $1.9 million , production and computer equipment purchases of approximately $14.5 million , and other unrecorded purchase commitments of $10.6 million . Senior unsecured notes and interest payments. Our 7.0% senior unsecured notes due 2022 bear interest at a rate of 7.0% per annum and mature on April 1, 2022. Interest on the notes will be payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing on October 1, 2015 and has been included in the table above. Other debt and interest payments. The term loans of $154.0 million outstanding under our credit agreement have repayments due on various dates through September 23, 2019, with the revolving loans outstanding of $77.5 million due on September 23, 2019. Interest payable included in this table is based on the interest rate as of June 30, 2015 and assumes all revolving loan amounts outstanding will not be paid until maturity, but that the term loan amortization payments will be made according to our defined schedule. Interest payable includes the estimated impact of our interest rate swap agreements. In addition, we assumed term loan debt as part of certain of our fiscal 2015 acquisitions and as of June 30, 2015 we had $11.5 million outstanding for those obligations that have repayments due on various dates through September 2024. Capital leases. We lease certain machinery and plant equipment under capital lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2020. The aggregate carrying value of the leased equipment under capital leases included in property, plant and equipment, net in our consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2015 , is $27.7 million , net of accumulated depreciation of $4.7 million . The present value of lease installments not yet due included in other current liabilities and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2015 amounts to $23.6 million . 44 Other Obligations. Other obligations include an installment obligation of $13.3 million related to the fiscal 2012 intra-entity transfer of the intellectual property of our subsidiary Webs, Inc., which resulted in tax being paid over a 7.5 year term and has been classified as a deferred tax liability in our consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2015 . Other obligations also include the fair value of the contingent consideration payments related to our fiscal 2014 acquisition of Printdeal of $7.8 million and the deferred payment for our fiscal 2015 acquisition of druck.at of $3.0 million . Please refer to Note 3 and 8 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional details .