Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including but not limited to our statements about the anticipated growth, development and profitability of certain of our businesses, sufficiency of our cash, legal proceedings, expected currency volatility, the anticipated competitive position of certain of our businesses in Europe, the development and anticipated benefits to our businesses of our mass customization platform, and the expected timing and impacts of Swiss tax reform. Without limiting the foregoing, the words may, should, could, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, designed, potential, continue, target, seek and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements included in this Report are based on information available to us up to, and including the date of this document, and we disclaim any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including but not limited to flaws in the assumptions and judgments upon which our forecasts and estimates are based; our failure to execute our strategy; our inability to make the investments in our business that we plan to make or the failure of those investments to achieve the results we expect; our failure to address performance issues in some of our businesses; the failure of the businesses we acquire or invest in to perform as expected; our failure to develop and deploy our mass customization platform or the failure of the platform to drive the performance, efficiencies, and competitive advantage we expect; loss of key personnel or our inability to recruit talented personnel to drive performance of our businesses; unanticipated changes in our markets, customers, or businesses; changes in the laws and regulations, or in the interpretation of laws and regulations, that affect our businesses, including changes in the timing of or regulations included in Swiss tax reform; our failure to attract new customers and retain our current customers; our failure to manage the growth and complexity of our business and expand our operations; the willingness of purchasers of customized products and services to shop online; our failure to maintain compliance with the covenants in our senior secured revolving credit facility and senior unsecured notes or to pay our debts when due; competitive pressures; general economic conditions; and other factors described in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 and the other documents we periodically file with the SEC.. Executive Overview Cimpress is a strategically focused group of more than a dozen businesses that specialize in mass customization, via which we deliver large volumes of individually small-sized customized orders for a broad spectrum of print, signage, photo merchandise, invitations and announcements, writing instruments, packaging, apparel and other categories. We invest in and build customer-focused, entrepreneurial mass customization businesses for the long term, which we manage in a decentralized, autonomous manner. We drive competitive advantage across Cimpress through a select few shared strategic capabilities that have the greatest potential to create Cimpress-wide value. We limit all other central activities to only those which absolutely must be performed centrally. During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we revised our internal organizational and reporting structure leading to changes in our Vistaprint and All Other Businesses reportable segments. Our Vistaprint Corporate Solutions, Vistaprint India, and Vistaprint Japan businesses, which were previously aggregated based on materiality in our All Other Businesses, are now directly managed within the Vistaprint business. These businesses are close derivatives or adjacencies of the Vistaprint business and leverage the Vistaprint brand, customers, technology, and/or other assets. This change in reporting structure will position them closer to the Vistaprint operations, capabilities, and resources. We have revised our presentation of all prior periods presented to reflect our revised segment reporting. In addition, we changed our segment profitability measure to an adjusted EBITDA metric. The financial metric that we use to hold our businesses accountable on an annual basis is unlevered free cash flow. Historically, we have reported segment profit based on adjusted net operating profit; however, this is not a direct input to unlevered free cash flow. We believe this change simplifies both our internal and external reporting, while also increasing the focus on a profitability metric that is a direct input into our internal operating measure, to our steady-state free cash flow analysis that we report annually and to our estimates of intrinsic value per share. The most significant change, when compared to our prior segment profit metric, is the exclusion of all depreciation and amortization expense, versus our prior profitability metric which only excluded amortization expense associated with 29 our acquired intangible assets. Refer to Note 12 for additional information relating to the definition of segment EBITDA. We also include below adjusted EBITDA, at a consolidated level, which is the most comparable measure to our definition of segment EBITDA. Refer below for our definitions of non-GAAP measures. As of September 30, 2019 , we have numerous operating segments under our management reporting structure that are reported in the following five reportable segments: Vistaprint, PrintBrothers , The Print Group , National Pen, and All Other Businesses. Refer to Note 12 in our accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to our reportable segments and our segment financial measures. Financial Summary The primary financial metric by which we set quarterly and annual budgets both for individual businesses and Cimpress wide is our adjusted free cash flow before cash interest expense related to borrowing; however, in evaluating the financial condition and operating performance of our business, management considers a number of metrics including revenue growth, constant-currency revenue growth, operating income, adjusted EBITDA, cash flow from operations and adjusted free cash flow. A summary of these key financial metrics for the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018 follows: Revenue increased by 8% to $634.0 million . Consolidated constant-currency revenue increased by 10% and, excluding acquisitions completed in the last four quarters, increased by 4% . Operating income increased by $31.4 million to $25.4 million . Adjusted EBITDA (a non-GAAP financial measure) increased by $37.1 million to $79.5 million . Cash provided by operating activities increased by $40.7 million to $62.9 million . Adjusted free cash flow (a non-GAAP financial measure) increased by $46.3 million to $36.2 million . For the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the increase in reported revenue is primarily due to the addition of the revenue from our BuildASign business acquired on October 1, 2018, as well as growth in our PrintBrothers , National Pen and The Print Group reportable segments. Currency exchange rate fluctuations negatively impacted revenue during the current quarter. For our Vistaprint business, revenue was impacted by significant reductions in our advertising spend, however revenue grew slightly on a constant-currency basis. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 , operating income increased as compared to the prior comparative period, due to profitability improvements across most of our businesses, including from planned reductions in advertising spend for our Vistaprint and National Pen businesses. The increase was also influenced by a reduction in share-based compensation expense, primarily due to our prior year recognition of expense associated with our supplemental PSUs, with no expense recognized in the current period since we no longer believe the performance condition is probable of being met. These increases were partially offset by increased investments in technology and other related areas, as well as additional restructuring charges and amortization of acquired intangibles. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 , adjusted EBITDA increased year-over-year primarily due to the same reasons as operating income mentioned above, as well as the addition of the profit from our BuildASign business acquired on October 1, 2018, which positively influenced adjusted EBITDA to a greater degree than operating income because adjusted EBITDA excludes depreciation and amortization expense. Adjusted EBITDA excludes depreciation and amortization but, in the comparative period, includes the impact of our Waltham, MA lease depreciation and interest expense as we have always viewed that as a cash operating cost. Adjusted EBITDA also includes the realized gains or losses on our currency derivatives intended to hedge EBITDA. The net year-over-year impact of currency on consolidated adjusted EBITDA was positive for the three months ended September 30, 2019 , due to realized gains on currency derivatives more than offsetting the related currency impact. 30 Consolidated Results of Operations Consolidated Revenue Our businesses generate revenue primarily from the sale and shipment of customized manufactured products. To a much lesser extent (and only in our Vistaprint business) we provide digital services, website design and hosting, and email marketing services, as well as generate a small percentage of revenue from order referral fees and other third-party offerings. For additional discussion relating to segment revenue results, refer to the "Reportable Segment Results" section included below. Total revenue and revenue growth by reportable segment for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 are shown in the following table: In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, Currency Impact: Constant- Currency Impact of Acquisitions/Divestitures: Constant- Currency Revenue Growth 2019 2018 % Change (Favorable)/Unfavorable Revenue Growth (1) (Favorable)/Unfavorable Excluding Acquisitions/Divestitures (2) Vistaprint $ 343,171 $ 345,320 (1)% 2% 1% % 1% PrintBrothers 109,290 101,389 8% 5% 13% % 13% The Print Group 72,258 71,000 2% 5% 7% % 7% National Pen 70,163 65,971 6% 2% 8% % 8% All Other Businesses (3) 42,276 7,715 448% 1% 449% (453)% (4)% Inter-segment eliminations (3,199 ) (2,414 ) Total revenue $ 633,959 $ 588,981 8% 2% 10% (6)% 4% _________________ (1) Constant-currency revenue growth, a non-GAAP financial measure, represents the change in total revenue between current and prior year periods at constant-currency exchange rates by translating all non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue generated in the current period using the prior year periods average exchange rate for each currency to the U.S. dollar. Our reportable segments-related growth is inclusive of inter-segment revenues, which are eliminated in our consolidated results. (2) Constant-currency revenue growth excluding acquisitions/divestitures, a non-GAAP financial measure, excludes revenue results for businesses in the period in which there is no comparable year-over-year revenue. Revenue from our fiscal year 2019 acquisitions is excluded from fiscal year 2020 revenue growth for quarters with no comparable year-over-year revenue. For example, revenue from BuildASign, which we acquired on October 1, 2018 in Q2 2019, is excluded from revenue growth in Q1 of fiscal year 2019 since there are no full quarter results in the comparable periods, but revenue will be included in revenue growth for Q2, Q3 and Q4 of fiscal year 2020. Our reportable segments-related growth is inclusive of inter-segment revenues, which are eliminated in our consolidated results. (3) The All Other Businesses segment includes the revenue of the BuildASign business from its acquisition date of October 1, 2018. Constant-currency revenue growth excluding acquisitions/divestitures, excludes the revenue results for BuildASign since their acquisition date. We have provided these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe they provide meaningful information regarding our results on a consistent and comparable basis for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures, in addition to GAAP financial measures, to evaluate our operating results. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered supplemental to and not a substitute for our reported financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Consolidated Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes materials used by our businesses to manufacture their products, payroll and related expenses for production and design services personnel, depreciation of assets used in the production process and in support of digital marketing service offerings, shipping, handling and processing costs, third-party production costs, costs of free products and other related costs of products our businesses sell. In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Cost of revenue $ 325,665 $ 302,471 % of revenue 51.4 % 51.4 % For the three months ended September 30, 2019 , consolidated cost of revenue increased by $23.2 million partially due to the addition of cost of revenue of $18.9 million from our BuildASign business, which was acquired on 31 October 1, 2018 and is therefore not included in the comparable period. The cost of revenue for our PrintBrothers businesses increased by $6.7 million primarily driven by revenue growth in our WIRmachenDRUCK business. We also recognized an increase of $1.5 million of costs within our National Pen business primarily due to increased volume. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in Vistaprint's cost of revenue, primarily due to a decrease in volume, as well as more effective management of shipping costs and improved plant efficiencies. Consolidated Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our comparative operating expenses for the following periods: In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 Technology and development expense $ 63,167 $ 57,063 11 % % of revenue 10.0 % 9.7 % Marketing and selling expense $ 160,917 $ 182,788 (12 )% % of revenue 25.4 % 31.0 % General and administrative expense $ 43,623 $ 41,176 6 % % of revenue 6.9 % 7.0 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 13,018 $ 11,301 15 % % of revenue 2.1 % 1.9 % Restructuring expense $ 2,190 $ 170 1,188 % % of revenue 0.3 % 0.0 % Technology and development expense Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and related expenses for employees engaged in software and manufacturing engineering, information technology operations and content development, as well as amortization of capitalized software and website development costs, including hosting of our websites, asset depreciation, patent amortization, and other technology infrastructure-related costs. Depreciation expense for information technology equipment that directly supports the delivery of our digital marketing services products is included in cost of revenue. During the three months ended September 30, 2019 , technology and development expenses increased by $6.1 million as compared to the prior year. The increase was partially due to a $2.3 million increase of expense in our Vistaprint business, primarily related to the ongoing rebuild of its technology infrastructure. In addition, we recognized increased costs in our central technology teams, primarily due to an increase in headcount, as these teams continue to develop new technologies that are intended to support our businesses. We also incurred costs from our BuildASign business, which was not included in the comparable period. Marketing and selling expense Marketing and selling expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional costs; payroll and related expenses for our employees engaged in marketing, sales, customer support and public relations activities; direct-mail advertising costs; and third-party payment processing fees. Our Vistaprint, National Pen and BuildASign businesses have higher marketing and selling costs as a percentage of revenue as compared to our PrintBrothers and The Print Group businesses. Our marketing and selling expenses decreased by $21.9 million during the three months ended September 30, 2019 , as compared to the prior year, primarily due to the reduction of advertising spend in our Vistaprint business of $21.6 million as we continue to work to eliminate spend that does not meet our return thresholds. We also recognized a decrease in marketing costs in our National Pen business of $3.5 million , primarily due to a planned reduction in direct mail prospecting activity as compared to last year's elevated levels. The decrease was partially offset by the addition of $10.5 million of advertising and customer care costs in our BuildASign business during the three months ended September 30, 2019 . 32 General and administrative expense General and administrative expense consists primarily of transaction costs, including third-party professional fees, insurance and payroll and related expenses of employees involved in executive management, finance, legal, strategy, human resources and procurement. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 , general and administrative expenses increased by $2.4 million as compared to the prior period, primarily due to an increase in consulting costs associated with strategic projects in our Vistaprint business, as well as higher recruiting costs related to the hiring of key members of the Vistaprint management team including the new executive team members. We also incurred costs from our BuildASign business which is not included in the comparable period. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in share-based compensation due to the prior period recognition of expense associated with our supplemental PSUs, with no expense recognized in the current period since we no longer believe the performance condition is probable of being met. Amortization of acquired intangible assets Amortization of acquired intangible assets consists of amortization expense associated with separately identifiable intangible assets capitalized as part of our acquisitions, including customer relationships, trade names, developed technologies, print networks, and customer and referral networks. Amortization of acquired intangible assets increased by $1.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018 , due to the addition of amortization for our acquisition of BuildASign. This increase is partially offset by a reduction of amortization within our PrintBrothers and The Print Group reportable segments due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during the prior fiscal year. Restructuring expense Restructuring expense consists of costs directly incurred as a result of restructuring initiatives, and includes employee-related termination costs, third party professional fees and facility exit costs. During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , we recognized restructuring expense of $2.2 million and $0.2 million , respectively. Other Consolidated Results Other income, net Other income, net generally consists of gains and losses from currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions or balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries, as well as the realized and unrealized gains and losses on some of our derivative instruments. In evaluating our currency hedging programs and ability to qualify for hedge accounting in light of our legal entity cash flows, we considered the benefits of hedge accounting relative to the additional economic cost of trade execution and administrative burden. Based on this analysis, we decided to execute certain currency derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting. The following table summarizes the components of other income, net: In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Gains on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments $ 19,357 $ 7,373 Currency-related (losses) gains, net (3,412 ) 2,097 Other (losses) gains (271 ) 782 Total other income, net $ 15,674 $ 10,252 The increase in other income, net is primarily due to the currency exchange rate volatility impacting our derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments, in which our Euro and British Pound contracts are the most significant exposure that we economically hedge. We expect volatility to continue in future periods, as we do 33 not apply hedge accounting for most of our derivative currency contracts. We also experienced currency-related gains due to currency exchange rate volatility on our non-functional currency intercompany relationships, primarily related to an intercompany loan that is denominated in Swiss Francs, which we may alter from time to time. The impact of certain cross-currency swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges is included in our currency-related (losses) gains, net, offsetting the impact of certain non-functional currency intercompany relationships. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net primarily consists of interest paid on outstanding debt balances, amortization of debt issuance costs, interest related to finance lease obligations and realized gains (losses) on effective interest rate swap contracts and certain cross-currency swap contracts. As part of interest expense, net, we also recognize changes to the estimated future redemption value of our mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests. Interest expense, net was $15.1 million and $13.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Interest expense was higher in fiscal 2020 relative to historical trends primarily as a result of higher debt levels, primarily due to the prior year acquisition of BuildASign and share repurchases during the current quarter. Income tax expense In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Income tax expense $ 6,115 $ 5,481 Effective tax rate 23.6 % (57.6 )% Income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was higher than the prior year primarily due to increased pre-tax earnings. In addition, during the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recognized a decrease in deferred tax assets of $5.6 million related to Notice 2018-68 issued by the United States Internal Revenue Service, which provided guidance regarding amendments to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Excluding the effect of discrete tax adjustments, our estimated annual effective tax rate is lower for fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019 primarily due to an expectation of a more favorable geographical mix of consolidated earnings. Our effective tax rate continues to be negatively impacted by losses in certain jurisdictions where we are unable to recognize a tax benefit in the current period. On May 19, 2019, Swiss voters approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (TRAF), which will be effective as of January 1, 2020. The TRAF legislation provides a framework for the cantons of Switzerland to modify their existing tax laws. Changes in cantonal tax law will be applicable to taxpayers only at the conclusion of both the federal and cantonal legislative processes, despite the fact that the federal framework law sets forth required changes to cantonal law. On September 1, 2019, voters in the canton of Zurich approved the cantonal implementation of TRAF. However, the official results of the Zurich referendum had not been published as of September 30, 2019. As such, TRAF is not considered enacted as of September 30, 2019. TRAF requires the abolishment of various favorable federal and cantonal tax regimes. TRAF also provides transitional relief measures, various tax benefits such as a patent box regime, and discretionary cantonal statutory tax rate reductions. While TRAF provides a variety of transitional measures and potential tax incentives to taxpayers, TRAF imposes a limitation whereby taxpayers can only eliminate up to 70% of their cantonal tax liability. We expect TRAF will be enacted in the quarter ending December 31, 2019, at which point we will remeasure our existing Swiss deferred tax assets and liabilities and establish new Swiss deferred tax assets related to transitional relief measures. We expect this will result in a material tax benefit in the quarter of enactment, but are unable to quantify the benefit at this time. We believe that our income tax reserves are adequately maintained by taking into consideration both the technical merits of our tax return positions and ongoing developments in our income tax audits. However, the final determination of our tax return positions, if audited, is uncertain and therefore there is a possibility that final 34 resolution of these matters could have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. Refer to Note 9 in our accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Reportable Segment Results Our segment financial performance is measured based on segment EBITDA, which is an adjusted EBITDA metric and is defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization (excluding depreciation and amortization related to our Waltham, Massachusetts office lease for prior periods presented); plus share-based compensation expense related to investment consideration; plus earn-out related charges; plus certain impairments; plus restructuring related charges; less interest expense related to our Waltham, Massachusetts office lease for prior periods presented; less gain on purchase or sale of subsidiaries. Vistaprint In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 Reported Revenue $ 343,171 $ 345,320 (1)% Segment EBITDA 80,580 59,994 34% % of revenue 23 % 17 % Segment Revenue Vistaprint's reported revenue growth for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was negatively affected by currency impacts of 2% , resulting in constant-currency growth of 1% . During the three months ended September 30, 2019 , revenue growth continues to be impacted by significant reductions in advertising spend, which is intended to eliminate advertising spend that does not meet our return criteria. The reductions in advertising spend lowered revenue growth but drove a significant improvement to profitability. Constant-currency revenue growth was positively impacted by a number of small changes across areas that have improved customer value and helped to optimize our efficiency and performance. Segment Profitability Vistaprint's segment EBITDA increased for the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the prior period, driven primarily by a reduction to advertising spend of $21.6 million , as well as increased gross margin. The improvements to gross margin were influenced by reduced shipping costs, improved plant efficiencies, and benefits from improved pricing and promotion. These increases were partially offset by increases in technology investments and consulting projects related to Vistaprint's focus on foundational basics. Vistaprint's segment EBITDA was also negatively impacted by currency movements during the quarter. PrintBrothers In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 Reported Revenue $ 109,290 $ 101,389 8% Segment EBITDA 10,777 10,571 2% % of revenue 10 % 10 % 35 Segment Revenue PrintBrothers ' reported revenue growth for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was negatively affected by currency impacts of 5% , resulting in constant-currency growth of 13% . The constant-currency revenue growth was primarily driven by continued growth in each of the businesses. We continue to see very aggressive price and online search competition in the upload and print space in Europe. This negatively impacts our revenue and profit but we intend to maintain this defensive stance indefinitely because we believe that, over the long term, our cost structure should allow us to outlast the competition. Our upload and print businesses are working more closely together than in the past to exploit scale advantages and improve their competitiveness. These businesses also continue to invest in modernized e-commerce technologies and increasingly adopt our mass customization platform (MCP) microservices, which we believe will improve customer value and the efficiency of each business over the long term. Segment Profitability PrintBrothers ' segment EBITDA increased slightly during the three months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the prior period, due to increased gross profit driven by revenue growth discussed above, partially offset by increased investments in technology intended to improve the customer value proposition of each business in increasingly competitive markets, pricing reductions in certain products offered by certain businesses, increased marketing costs due to higher paid search costs, and negative impacts from currency movements. The Print Group In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 Reported Revenue $ 72,258 $ 71,000 2% Segment EBITDA 13,634 11,846 15% % of revenue 19 % 17 % Segment Revenue The Print Group 's reported revenue growth for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was negatively affected by currency impacts of 5% , resulting in an increase in revenue on a constant-currency basis of 7% . The constant-currency revenue growth was primarily driven by continued growth from our Pixartprinting business. As described above, aggressive price competition continues in the European upload and print market, but we believe we are positioned to outlast our competition. These businesses continue to invest in modernized e-commerce technologies and increasingly adopt MCP microservices, which we believe will improve customer value and the efficiency of each business over the long term. Segment Profitability The Print Group 's segment EBITDA increased during the three months ended September 30, 2019 , as compared to the prior period, driven by production and operating expense efficiencies, partially offset by investments in technology, unfavorable currency impacts, and the year-over-year impact of previously described price reductions in response to competition. National Pen In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 Reported Revenue $ 70,163 $ 65,971 6% Segment EBITDA (9,850 ) (16,468 ) 40% % of revenue (14 )% (25 )% 36 Segment Revenue National Pen's reported revenue growth for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was negatively affected by currency impacts of 2% , resulting in constant-currency revenue growth of 8% . Revenue growth was primarily driven by increases across channels and geographies, as we have seen improved marketing performance, even with planned reductions to our external marketing spend. Segment Profitability The improvement in National Pen's segment EBITDA loss for the three months ended September 30, 2019 , compared to the prior period, is primarily due to advertising spend reductions and operational improvements, partially offset by accelerated investment in e-commerce technology. Currency had a negative year-over-year impact on segment EBITDA loss. All Other Businesses In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 Reported Revenue (1) $ 42,276 $ 7,715 448% Segment EBITDA (1) 1,717 (4,722 ) 136% % of revenue 4 % (61 )% ___________________ (1) Our All Other Businesses segment includes the results of our fiscal 2019 acquisition, BuildASign, from October 1, 2018. With the exception of BuildASign which is a larger and profitable business, this segment consists of multiple small, rapidly evolving early-stage businesses through which Cimpress is expanding to new markets. These businesses are subject to high degrees of risk and we expect that each of their business models will rapidly evolve in function of future trials and entrepreneurial pivoting. Therefore, in all of these early-stage businesses we continue to have operating losses as previously described and as planned. Segment Revenue The All Other Businesses segment revenue increase was due to the inclusion of the results of BuildASign since the acquisition date of October 1, 2018. Organic constant-currency revenue, excluding the impact of the BuildASign business, decreased by 4% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 , driven by a decrease in revenue in our Printi business as compared to the prior period, primarily due to recent actions we have taken to improve the efficiency and focus of the business, which included foregoing certain revenue channels that we do not believe had a high probability of sufficient returns. Segment Profitability The improvement in the All Other Businesses segment EBITDA for the three months ended September 30, 2019 , as compared to the prior period, was primarily due to the addition of BuildASign, which we acquired on October 1, 2018 and contributed $4.7 million of segment EBITDA for the three months ended September 30, 2019 . Additionally, the work to improve the efficiency and focus of Printi drove a year-over-year benefit to segment EBITDA as well. Based on recent initiatives in cost reduction and a focus on profitable growth, we expect Printi's EBITDA losses in fiscal 2020 to be lower than in the prior year. Central and Corporate Costs Central and corporate costs consist primarily of the team of software engineers that is building our mass customization platform; shared service organizations such as global procurement; technology services such as hosting and security; administrative costs of our Cimpress India offices where numerous Cimpress businesses have dedicated business-specific team members; and corporate functions including our Board of Directors, CEO, and the team members necessary for managing corporate activities, such as treasury, tax, capital allocation, financial consolidation, internal audit and legal. These costs also include certain unallocated share-based compensation costs. 37 Central and corporate costs decreased by $2.4 million during the three months ended September 30, 2019 , as compared to the prior year, driven by $3.8 million of lower share-based compensation costs primarily associated with our supplemental PSUs and related supplemental performance cash awards, for which we continue to believe the performance condition will not be met. Additionally, our share-based compensation is lower due to the changes we made in November 2018 to reduce the size of our Board of Directors. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in central technology investments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 62,905 $ 22,220 Net cash used in investing activities (29,363 ) (49,568 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (33,005 ) 31,643 At September 30, 2019 , we had $31.2 million of cash and cash equivalents and $1,239.2 million of debt, excluding debt issuance costs and debt discounts. We expect cash and cash equivalents and debt levels to fluctuate over time depending on our working capital needs, our organic investment levels, share repurchases and acquisition activity. The cash flows during the three months ended September 30, 2019 related primarily to the following items: Cash inflows: Net income of $19.9 million Adjustments for non-cash items of $38.9 million primarily related to positive adjustments for depreciation and amortization of $42.5 million , share-based compensation costs of $5.4 million , partially offset by unrealized currency-related gains of $9.5 million and non-cash tax related items of $1.0 million Proceeds of debt of $203.4 million , net of payments The changes in operating assets and liabilities, excluding the impact of restructuring-related payments, were a source of cash during the period, driven by increases in accrued expenses Cash outflows: Purchases of our ordinary shares for $231.9 million Capital expenditures of $14.2 million of which the majority related to the purchase of manufacturing and automation equipment for our production facilities and computer and office equipment Internal costs for software and website development that we have capitalized of $12.5 million Payments for acquisitions of $4.3 million , net of cash acquired Payments for finance lease arrangements of $2.7 million Additional Liquidity and Capital Resources Information. During the three months ended September 30, 2019 , we financed our operations and strategic investments through internally generated cash flows from operations and debt financing. As of September 30, 2019 , a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our subsidiaries, and undistributed earnings of our subsidiaries that are considered to be indefinitely reinvested were $32.7 million . We do not intend to repatriate these funds as the cash and cash equivalent balances are generally used and available, without legal restrictions, to fund ordinary business operations and investments of the respective subsidiaries. If there is a change in the future, the repatriation of undistributed earnings from certain 38 subsidiaries, in the form of dividends or otherwise, could have tax consequences that could result in material cash outflows. Debt. As of September 30, 2019 , we had aggregate loan commitments from our senior secured credit facility totaling $1,578.7 million . The loan commitments consisted of revolving loans of $1,087.3 million and term loans of $491.4 million . We have other financial obligations that constitute additional indebtedness based on the definitions within the credit facility. As of September 30, 2019 , the amount available for borrowing under our senior secured credit facility was as follows: In thousands September 30, 2019 Maximum aggregate available for borrowing $ 1,578,662 Outstanding borrowings of senior secured credit facility (822,681 ) Remaining amount 755,981 Limitations to borrowing due to debt covenants and other obligations (1) (234,467 ) Amount available for borrowing as of September 30, 2019 (2) $ 521,514 _________________ (1) The debt covenants of our senior secured credit facility limit our borrowing capacity each quarter, depending on our leverage and other indebtedness, such as notes, finance leases, letters of credit, and any other debt, as well as other factors that are outlined in the credit agreement. (2) Share purchases, dividend payments, and corporate acquisitions are subject to more restrictive covenants, and therefore we may not be able to use the full amount available for borrowing for these purposes. Debt Covenants . Our credit agreement and senior unsecured notes indenture contain financial and other covenants as well as customary representations, warranties and events of default, which are detailed in Note 8 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As of September 30, 2019 , we were in compliance with all financial and other covenants under the credit agreement and senior unsecured notes indenture. Other Debt . Other debt primarily consists of term loans acquired through our various acquisitions or used to fund certain capital investments. As of September 30, 2019 we had $16.5 million outstanding for other debt payable through March 2025. Our expectations for fiscal year 2020. We believe that our available cash, cash flows generated from operations, and cash available under our committed debt financing will be sufficient to satisfy our liabilities and planned investments to support our long-term growth strategy. We endeavor to invest capital that we believe will generate returns that are above, or well above, our weighted average cost of capital. We consider any use of cash that we expect to require more than twelve months to return our invested capital to be an allocation of capital. For fiscal 2020, we expect to continue to evaluate opportunities to allocate capital across a spectrum of organic investments, purchases of our ordinary shares, corporate acquisitions and similar investments, and reductions of debt, although we do not expect to complete a material acquisition in this time period. We have targeted a capital structure that we believe balances both efficiency and flexibility. We do not have a specific financial leverage target, but rather will be guided by the availability of attractive opportunities while not putting at risk our ability to comfortably meet our quarterly maintenance covenants on our debt. Share repurchase availability. Share repurchases have formed a material component of our capital allocation over the last decade and we expect that could continue dependent on our share price, liquidity, obligations under our equity compensation plans, and other capital allocation opportunities. In addition to these dependencies and our adherence to certain regulatory requirements, there are generally three restrictions for our share repurchases: (1) shareholder and Board approval which is described in Part II, Item 2 of this report, (2) compliance with our debt covenants for share repurchases which include limitations based on our financial leverage, and (3) distributable reserves as provided in the statutory financial statements of our parent company. 39 Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations at September 30, 2019 are as follows: In thousands Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating leases, net of subleases $ 179,453 $ 27,867 $ 57,952 $ 40,900 $ 52,734 Purchase commitments 142,015 85,011 28,921 28,083 Senior unsecured notes and interest payments 596,000 28,000 56,000 56,000 456,000 Other debt and interest payments (1) 937,484 95,792 205,591 635,691 410 Finance leases, net of subleases 28,577 11,944 11,322 3,462 1,849 Other 2,645 1,272 1,373 Total (2) $ 1,886,174 $ 249,886 $ 361,159 $ 764,136 $ 510,993 ___________________ (1) Other debt and interest payments include the effects of interest rate swaps, whether they are expected to be payments or receipts of cash. We have excluded the effect of interest rate swaps of $0.5 million within the more than five years category above as that period extends beyond the term of our debt and the interest rate swaps do not yet offset contractual interest payments. (2) We may be required to make cash outlays related to our uncertain tax positions. However, due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with our uncertain tax positions, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. Accordingly, uncertain tax positions of $4.8 million as of September 30, 2019 have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. For further information on uncertain tax positions, see Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Purchase Commitments . At September 30, 2019 , we had unrecorded commitments under contract of $142.0 million . Purchase commitments consisted of third-party web services of $76.0 million , inventory purchase commitments of $38.2 million , commitments for professional and consulting fees of $4.0 million , production and computer equipment purchases of approximately $3.8 million , commitments for advertising campaigns of $0.8 million , and other unrecorded purchase commitments of $19.3 million . Senior Unsecured notes and Interest Payments. Our 7.0% senior unsecured notes due 2026 bear interest at a rate of 7.0% per annum and mature on June 15, 2026. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year and has been included in the table above. Other Debt and Interest Payments. At September 30, 2019 , the term loans of $491.4 million outstanding under our credit agreement have repayments due on various dates through June 14, 2023, with the revolving loans outstanding under our $1,087.3 million revolving credit facility due on June 14, 2023. Interest payable included in this table is based on the interest rate as of September 30, 2019 , and assumes all LIBOR-based revolving loan amounts outstanding will not be paid until maturity, but that the term loan amortization payments will be made according to our defined schedule and all Prime rate based revolving loan amounts will be paid within a year. Interest payable includes the estimated impact of our interest rate swap agreements. In addition, we have other debt which consists primarily of term loans acquired through our various acquisitions or used to fund certain capital investments, and as of September 30, 2019 we had $16.5 million outstanding for those obligations that have repayments due on various dates through March 2025. Finance Leases. We lease certain machinery and plant equipment under finance lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2022. The aggregate carrying value of the leased equipment under finance leases included in property, plant and equipment, net in our consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2019 , is $25.9 million , net of accumulated depreciation of $40.5 million . The present value of lease installments not yet due included in other current liabilities and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2019 amounts to $31.3 million . Other Obligations . Other obligations include deferred payments related to previous acquisitions of $2.6 million in the aggregate. 40 Additional Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted free cash flow presented below, and constant-currency revenue growth and constant-currency revenue growth excluding acquisitions/divestitures presented in the consolidated results of operations section above, are supplemental measures of our performance that are not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as GAAP operating income plus depreciation and amortization (excluding depreciation and amortization related to our Waltham, Massachusetts office lease) plus share-based compensation expense plus proceeds from insurance plus earn-out related charges plus certain impairments plus restructuring related charges plus realized gains or losses on currency derivatives less interest expense related to our Waltham, Massachusetts office lease less gain on purchase or sale of subsidiaries. We note that with the adoption of ASC 842, the Waltham, Massachusetts office lease has been reclassified from a build-to-suit lease to an operating lease, and therefore the depreciation and interest expense adjustments that were made in comparative periods will no longer be made beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2020, as any impact from the Waltham lease will be reflected in operating income. Refer to Note 2 for additional details. Adjusted EBITDA is the primary profitability metric by which we measure our consolidated financial performance and is provided to enhance investors' understanding of our current operating results from the underlying and ongoing business for the same reasons it is used by management. For example, as we have become more acquisitive over recent years we believe excluding the costs related to the purchase of a business (such as amortization of acquired intangible assets, contingent consideration, or impairment of goodwill) provides further insight into the performance of the underlying acquired business in addition to that provided by our GAAP operating income. As another example, as we do not apply hedge accounting for certain derivative contracts, we believe inclusion of realized gains and losses on these contracts that are intended to be matched against operational currency fluctuations provides further insight into our operating performance in addition to that provided by our GAAP operating income. We do not, nor do we suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted free cash flow is the primary financial metric by which we set quarterly and annual budgets both for individual businesses and Cimpress-wide. Adjusted free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment, purchases of intangible assets not related to acquisitions, and capitalization of software and website development costs that are included in net cash used in investing activities, plus the payment of contingent consideration in excess of acquisition-date fair value and gains on proceeds from insurance that are included in net cash provided by operating activities, if any. We use this cash flow metric because we believe that this methodology can provide useful supplemental information to help investors better understand our ability to generate cash flow after considering certain investments required to maintain or grow our business, as well as eliminate the impact of certain cash flow items presented as operating cash flows that we do not believe reflect the cash flow generated by the underlying business. Our adjusted free cash flow measure has limitations as it may omit certain components of the overall cash flow statement and does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, adjusted free cash flow does not incorporate our cash payments to reduce the principal portion of our debt or cash payments for business acquisitions. Additionally, the mix of property, plant and equipment purchases that we choose to finance may change over time. We believe it is important to view our adjusted free cash flow measure only as a complement to our entire consolidated statement of cash flows. 41 The table below sets forth operating income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 : In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 GAAP operating income (loss) $ 25,379 $ (5,988 ) Exclude expense (benefit) impact of: Depreciation and amortization 42,535 40,718 Waltham, MA lease depreciation adjustment (1) (1,030 ) Share-based compensation expense (2) 4,750 8,916 Certain impairments and other adjustments (176 ) (87 ) Restructuring-related charges 2,190 170 Interest expense for Waltham, MA lease (1) (1,849 ) Realized gains on currency derivatives not included in operating income (loss) 4,838 1,607 Adjusted EBITDA $ 79,516 $ 42,457 _________________ (1) Upon the adoption of the new leasing standard on July 1, 2019, our Waltham, Massachusetts lease, which was previously classified as build-to-suit, is now classified as an operating lease under the new standard. Therefore, the Waltham depreciation and interest expense adjustments that were made in comparative periods are no longer adjusted beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2020, as any impact from the Waltham lease will be reflected in operating income. Refer to Note 2 for additional details. (2) The adjustment for share-based compensation expense excludes the portion of share-based compensation expense included in restructuring related charges, if any, to avoid double counting. The table below sets forth net cash provided by operating activities and adjusted free cash flow for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 : In thousands Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 62,905 $ 22,220 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (14,193 ) (21,026 ) Purchases of intangible assets not related to acquisitions (22 ) Capitalization of software and website development costs (12,471 ) (11,233 ) Adjusted free cash flow $ 36,241 $ (10,061 ) 42