Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The descriptions of our business, products, and markets in this section apply to all of our operating segments. Seasonality Our profitability has historically been highly seasonal. Our second fiscal quarter, ending December 31, includes the majority of the holiday shopping season and has become our strongest quarter for sales of our consumer-oriented products, such as holiday cards, calendars, photo books, and personalized gifts. Operating income during the second fiscal quarter represented 46% and 86% of annual operating income in the years ended June 30, 2018 and 2016, respectively. During the year ended June 30, 2017, in a period we recognized a loss from operations, the second quarter was the only profitable quarter during the year. Our National Pen business, which we acquired on December 30, 2017, is highly seasonal and we expect their second quarter to include the majority of the profits generated in the fiscal year. Employees As of June 30, 2018 , we had approximately 10,800 full-time and approximately 1,200 temporary employees worldwide. Corporate Information Cimpress N.V. (formerly named Vistaprint N.V.) was incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands on June 5, 2009 and on August 30, 2009 became the publicly traded parent company of the Cimpress group of entities. We maintain our registered office at Hudsonweg 8, 5928 LW Venlo, the Netherlands. Our telephone number in the Netherlands is +31-77-850-7700. Available Information We make available, free of charge through our United States website, the reports, proxy statements, amendments and other materials we file with or furnish to the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with or to the SEC. The address of our United States website is www.cimpress.com. We are not including the information contained on our website, or information that can be accessed by links contained on our website, as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future results may vary materially from those contained in forward-looking statements that we make in this Report and other filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors, and oral statements due to the following important factors, among others. Our forward-looking statements in this Report and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. These statements can be affected by, among other things, inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties or risks we currently deem immaterial. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Risks Related to Our Business If our long-term growth strategy is not successful, our business and financial results could be harmed. We may not achieve our long-term objectives, and our investments in our business may fail to impact our results and growth as anticipated. Some of the factors that could cause our business strategy to fail to achieve our objectives include the following, among others: 9 our failure to adequately execute our strategy or anticipate and overcome obstacles to achieving our strategic goals our failure to develop our mass customization platform or the failure of the platform to drive the efficiencies and competitive advantage we expect our failure to manage the growth, complexity, and pace of change of our business and expand our operations our failure to acquire, at a value-accretive price or at all, businesses that enhance the growth and development of our business or to effectively integrate the businesses we do acquire into our business our inability to purchase or develop technologies and other key assets and capabilities to increase our efficiency, enhance our competitive advantage, and scale our operations our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the decentralization of our operations the failure of our current supply chain to provide the resources we need at the standards we require and our inability to develop new or enhanced supply chains our failure to acquire new customers and enter new markets, retain our current customers, and sell more products to current and new customers our failure to address inefficiencies and performance issues in some of our businesses and markets our failure to sustain growth in relatively mature markets our failure to promote, strengthen, and protect our brands our failure to effectively manage competition and overlap within our brand portfolio the failure of our current and new marketing channels to attract customers our failure to realize expected returns on our capital allocation decisions unanticipated changes in our business, current and anticipated markets, industry, or competitive landscape our failure to attract and retain skilled talent needed to execute our strategy and sustain our growth general economic conditions If our strategy is not successful, then our revenue, earnings, cash flows and value may not grow as anticipated, be negatively impacted, or decline, our reputation and brands may be damaged, and the price of our shares may decline. In addition, we may change our strategy from time to time, which can cause fluctuations in our financial results and volatility in our share price. Purchasers of customized products may not choose to shop online, which would limit our acquisition of new customers that are necessary to the success of our business. We sell most of our products and services through the Internet. Because the online market for most of our products and services is not mature, our success depends in part on our ability to attract customers who have historically purchased products and services we offer through offline channels. Specific factors that could prevent prospective customers from purchasing from us online include the following: concerns about buying customized products without face-to-face interaction with design or sales personnel the inability to physically handle and examine product samples before making a purchase delivery time associated with Internet orders 10 concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information delayed or lost shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products a desire to support and buy from local businesses limited access to the Internet the inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging purchased items In addition, our internal research shows that an increasing number of current and potential customers access our websites using smart phones or tablets and that our website visits using traditional computers may decline. Designing and purchasing custom designed products on a smart phone, tablet, or other mobile device is more difficult than doing so with a traditional computer due to limited screen sizes and bandwidth constraints. If our customers and potential customers have difficulty accessing and using our websites and technologies, then our revenue could decline. We may not succeed in promoting and strengthening our brands, which could prevent us from acquiring new customers and increasing revenues. A primary component of our business strategy is to promote and strengthen our brands to attract new and repeat customers, and we face significant competition from other companies in our markets who also seek to establish strong brands. To promote and strengthen our brands, we must incur substantial marketing expenses and establish a relationship of trust with our customers by providing a high-quality customer experience, which requires us to invest substantial amounts of our resources. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience is also dependent on external factors over which we may have little or no control, such as the reliability and performance of our suppliers, third-party fulfillers, third-party carriers, and communication infrastructure providers. If we are unable to promote our brands or provide customers with a high-quality customer experience, we may fail to attract new customers, maintain customer relationships, and sustain or increase our revenues. We manage our business for long-term results, and our quarterly and annual financial results often fluctuate, which may lead to volatility in our share price. Our revenues and operating results often vary significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, and as a result comparing our financial results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. We prioritize our uppermost financial objective of maximizing our intrinsic value per share even at the expense of shorter-term results and do not manage our business to maximize current period reported financial results, including our GAAP net income and operating cash flow and other results we report. Many of the factors that lead to period-to-period fluctuations are outside of our control; however, some factors are inherent in our business strategies. Some of the specific factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter or year to year include among others: investments in our business in the current period intended to generate longer-term returns, where the costs in the near term will not be offset by revenue or cost savings until future periods, if at all; seasonality-driven or other variations in the demand for our products and services, in particular during our second fiscal quarter; currency and interest rate fluctuations, which affect our revenues, costs, and fair value of our assets and liabilities; our hedging activity; our ability to attract and retain customers and generate purchases; shifts in revenue mix toward less profitable products and brands; the commencement or termination of agreements with our strategic partners, suppliers, and others; 11 our ability to manage our production, fulfillment, and support operations; costs to produce and deliver our products and provide our services, including the effects of inflation; our pricing and marketing strategies and those of our competitors; expenses and charges related to our compensation arrangements with our executives and employees; costs and charges resulting from litigation; significant increases in credits, beyond our estimated allowances, for customers who are not satisfied with our products; changes in our income tax rate; costs to acquire businesses or integrate our acquired businesses; financing costs; impairments of our tangible and intangible assets including goodwill; and the results of our minority investments and joint ventures. Some of our expenses, such as office leases, depreciation related to previously acquired property and equipment, and personnel costs, are relatively fixed, and we may be unable to, or may not choose to, adjust operating expenses to offset any revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any period. Our operating results may sometimes be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, in which case the price of our ordinary shares may decline. We may not be successful in developing our mass customization platform or in realizing the anticipated benefits of the platform. A key component of our strategy is the development of a mass customization platform. The process of developing new technology is complex, costly, and uncertain, and the development effort could be disruptive to our business and existing systems. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant resources before knowing whether our mass customization platform will be successful and make us more effective and competitive. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete the development of the platform, that our diverse businesses will realize value from the platform, or that we will realize expected returns on the capital expended to develop the platform. In addition, we are aware that other companies are developing platforms that could compete with ours. If a competitor were to develop and reach scale with a platform before we do, our competitive position could be harmed. Our global operations, decentralized organizational structure, and expansion place a significant strain on our management, employees, facilities, and other resources and subject us to additional risks. We are a global company with production facilities, offices, and localized websites in many countries across six continents, and we have decentralized our organizational structure and operations. We expect to establish operations, acquire or invest in businesses, and sell our products and services in additional geographic regions, including emerging markets, where we may have limited or no experience. We may not be successful in all regions and markets in which we invest or where we establish operations, which may be costly to us. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that relate to our global operations, decentralization, and expansion, including, among others: difficulty managing operations in, and communications among, multiple businesses, locations, and time zones; 12 difficulty complying with multiple tax laws, treaties, and regulations and limiting our exposure to onerous or unanticipated taxes, duties, and other costs; our failure to improve and adapt our financial and operational controls to manage our decentralized business and comply with our legal obligations; the challenge of complying with disparate laws in multiple countries, such as local regulations that may impair our ability to conduct our business as planned, protectionist laws that favor local businesses, and restrictions imposed by local labor laws; our inexperience in marketing and selling our products and services within unfamiliar countries and cultures; challenges of working with local business partners; our failure to properly understand and develop graphic design content and product formats and attributes appropriate for local tastes; disruptions caused by political and social instability that may occur in some countries; corrupt business practices, such as bribery or the willful infringement of intellectual property rights, that may be common in some countries or in some sales channels and markets; difficulty repatriating cash from some countries; difficulty importing and exporting our products across country borders and difficulty complying with customs regulations in the many countries where we sell products; disruptions or cessation of important components of our international supply chain; and failure of local laws to provide a sufficient degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property. There is considerable uncertainty about the economic and regulatory effects of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union (commonly referred to as "Brexit"). The UK is one of our largest markets in Europe, but we currently ship products to UK customers primarily from continental Europe. If Brexit results in greater restrictions on imports and exports between the UK and the EU or increased regulatory complexity, then our operations and financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may impact items such as the translation of our revenues and expenses, remeasurement of our intercompany balances, and the value of our cash and cash equivalents and other assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency. The hedging activities we engage in may not mitigate the net impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations, and our financial results may differ materially from expectations as a result of such fluctuations. Failure to protect our information systems and the confidential information of our customers, employees, and business partners against security breaches or thefts could damage our reputation and brands, subject us to litigation and enforcement actions, and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our business involves the receipt, storage, and transmission of customers' personal and payment information, as well as confidential information about our business, employees, suppliers, and business partners, some of which is entrusted to third-party service providers, partners, and vendors. Our information systems and those of third parties with which we share information are vulnerable to an increasing threat of cyber security risks, including physical and electronic break-ins, computer viruses, and phishing and other social engineering scams, among other risks. As security threats evolve and become more sophisticated and more difficult to detect and defend against, a hacker or thief may defeat our security measures, or those of our third-party service provider, partner, or vendor, and obtain confidential or personal information. We or the third party may not discover the security breach and theft of information for a significant period of time after the breach occurs. We may need to 13 expend significant resources to protect against security breaches and thefts of data or to address problems caused by breaches or thefts, and we may not be able to anticipate cyber attacks or implement adequate preventative measures. Any compromise or breach of our information systems or the information systems of third parties with which we share information could, among other things: damage our reputation and brands; expose us to losses, remediation costs, litigation, enforcement actions, and possible liability; result in a failure to comply with legal and industry privacy regulations and standards; lead to the misuse of our and our customers' confidential or personal information; cause interruptions in our operations; and cause us to lose revenue if existing and potential customers believe that their personal and payment information may not be safe with us. We are subject to the laws of many states, countries, and regions and industry guidelines and principles governing the collection, use, retention, disclosure, sharing, and security of data that we receive from and about our customers and employees. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with any of these laws, guidelines, or principles could result in actions against us by governmental entities or others, a loss of customer confidence, and damage to our brands, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, the regulatory landscape is constantly changing, as various regulatory bodies throughout the world enact new laws concerning privacy, data retention, data transfer and data protection. For example, the recent General Data Protection Regulation in Europe includes operational and compliance requirements that are different than those previously in place and also includes significant penalties for non-compliance. Complying with these varying and changing requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and operating results. Acquisitions and strategic investments may be disruptive to our business. An important way in which we pursue our strategy is to selectively acquire businesses, technologies, and services and make minority investments in businesses and joint ventures. The time and expense associated with finding suitable businesses, technologies, or services to acquire or invest in can be disruptive to our ongoing business and divert our management's attention. In addition, we have needed in the past, and may need in the future, to seek financing for acquisitions and investments, which may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, and can cause dilution to our shareholders, cause us to incur additional debt, or subject us to covenants restricting the activities we may undertake. Our acquisitions and strategic investments may fail to achieve our goals. An acquisition, minority investment, or joint venture may fail to achieve our goals and expectations for a number of reasons including the following: The business we acquired or invested in may not perform as well as we expected. We may overpay for acquired businesses, which can, among other things, negatively affect our intrinsic value per share. We may fail to integrate acquired businesses, technologies, services, or internal systems effectively, or the integration may be more expensive or take more time than we anticipated. The management of our minority investments and joint ventures may be more expensive or may take more resources than we expected. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of integrating acquired businesses into our mass customization platform. 14 We may encounter cultural or language challenges in integrating an acquired business or managing our minority investment in a business. We may not be able to retain customers and key employees of the acquired businesses, and we and the businesses we acquire or invest in may not be able to cross sell products and services to each other's customers. We generally assume the liabilities of businesses we acquire, which could include liability for an acquired business' violation of law that occurred before we acquired it. In addition, we have historically acquired smaller, privately held companies that may not have as strong a culture of legal compliance or as robust financial controls as a larger, publicly traded company like Cimpress, and if we fail to implement adequate training, controls, and monitoring of the acquired companies, we could also be liable for post-acquisition legal violations. Our acquisitions and minority investments can negatively impact our financial results. Acquisitions and minority investments can be costly, and some of our acquisitions and investments may be dilutive, leading to reduced earnings. Acquisitions and investments can result in increased expenses including impairments of goodwill and intangible assets if financial goals are not achieved, assumptions of contingent or unanticipated liabilities, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and increased tax costs. In addition, the accounting for our acquisitions and minority investments requires us to make significant estimates, judgments, and assumptions that can change from period to period, based in part on factors outside of our control, which can create volatility in our financial results. For example, we often pay a portion of the purchase price for our acquisitions in the form of an earn out based on performance targets for the acquired companies or enter into obligations or options to purchase non-controlling interests in our minority investments, which can be difficult to forecast. If in the future our assumptions change and we determine that higher levels of achievement are likely under our earn outs or future purchase obligations, we will need to pay and record additional amounts to reflect the increased purchase price. These additional amounts could be significant and could adversely impact our results of operations. Furthermore, earn-out provisions can lead to disputes with the sellers about the achievement of the earn-out performance targets, earn-out performance targets can sometimes create inadvertent incentives for the acquired company's management to take short-term actions designed to maximize the earn out instead of benefiting the business, and strong performance of the underlying business could result in material payments pursuant to earn-out provisions or future purchase obligations that may or may not reflect the fair market value of the asset at that time. If we are unable to attract new and repeat customers in a cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract new and repeat customers in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a variety of methods to do this including drawing visitors to our websites, promoting our products and services through search engines such as Google, Bing, and Yahoo!, email, direct mail, advertising banners and other online links, broadcast media, telesales and word-of-mouth customer referrals. If the search engines on which we rely modify their algorithms, terminate their relationships with us, or increase the prices at which we may purchase listings, our costs could increase, and fewer customers may click through to our websites. If links to our websites are not displayed prominently in online search results, if fewer customers click through to our websites, if our direct mail marketing campaigns are not effective, or if the costs of attracting customers using any of our current methods significantly increase, then our ability to efficiently attract new and repeat customers would be reduced, our revenue and net income could decline, and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Seasonal fluctuations in our business place a strain on our operations and resources. Our profitability has historically been highly seasonal. Our second fiscal quarter includes the majority of the holiday shopping season and accounts for a disproportionately high portion of our earnings for the year, primarily due to higher sales of home and family products such as holiday cards, calendars, photo books, and personalized gifts. In addition, the National Pen business we acquired in December 2016 has historically generated nearly all of its profits during the December quarter. Our operating income during the second fiscal quarter represented 46% and 86% of annual operating income in the years ended June 30, 2018 and 2016, respectively, and during the year 15 ended June 30, 2017, in a period we recognized a loss from operations, the second quarter was the only profitable quarter. In anticipation of increased sales activity during our second fiscal quarter holiday season, we typically incur significant additional capacity related expenses each year to meet our seasonal needs, including facility expansions, equipment purchases and leases, and increases in the number of temporary and permanent employees. Lower than expected sales during the second quarter would likely have a disproportionately large impact on our operating results and financial condition for the full fiscal year. In addition, if our manufacturing and other operations are unable to keep up with the high volume of orders during our second fiscal quarter or we experience inefficiencies in our production, then our costs may be significantly higher, and we and our customers can experience delays in order fulfillment and delivery and other disruptions. If we are unable to accurately forecast and respond to seasonality in our business, our business and results of operations may be materially harmed. Our hedging activity could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows, or leverage. We have entered into derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate and currency movements. If we do not accurately forecast our results of operations, execute contracts that do not effectively mitigate our economic exposure to interest rates and currency rates, elect to not apply hedge accounting, or fail to comply with the complex accounting requirements for hedging, our results of operations and cash flows could be volatile, as well as negatively impacted. Also, our hedging objectives may be targeted at improving our non-GAAP financial metrics, which could result in increased volatility in our GAAP results. Since some of our hedging activity addresses long-term exposures, such as our net investment in our subsidiaries, the gains or losses on those hedges could be recognized before the offsetting exposure materializes to offset them. This could result in our having to borrow to settle a loss on a derivative without an offsetting cash inflow, potentially causing volatility in our cash or debt balances and therefore our leverage. Our businesses face risks related to interruption of our operations and lack of redundancy. Our businesses' production facilities, websites, infrastructure, supply chain, customer service centers, and operations may be vulnerable to interruptions, and our businesses do not have redundancies or alternatives in all cases to carry on these operations in the event of an interruption. In addition, because our businesses are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of their communications and production systems, they may not be able to remedy interruptions to these systems in a timely manner or at all due to factors outside of their control. Some of the events that could cause interruptions in our businesses' operations or systems are the following, among others: fire, natural disasters, or extreme weather labor strike, work stoppage, or other issues with our workforce political instability or acts of terrorism or war power loss or telecommunication failure attacks on our external websites or internal network by hackers or other malicious parties undetected errors or design faults in our technology, infrastructure, and processes that may cause our websites to fail inadequate capacity in our systems and infrastructure to cope with periods of high volume and demand human error, including poor managerial judgment or oversight Any interruptions to our businesses' systems or operations could result in lost revenue, increased costs, negative publicity, damage to our businesses' reputation and brands, and an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Building redundancies into our businesses' infrastructure, systems, and supply chain to mitigate these risks may require us to commit substantial financial, operational, and technical resources, in some cases before the volume of their business increases with no assurance that their revenues will increase. 16 We face intense competition, and we expect our competition to continue to increase. The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive, highly fragmented, and geographically dispersed. The competitive landscape for e-commerce companies continues to change as new e-commerce businesses are introduced and traditional bricks and mortar businesses establish an online presence. Competition may result in price pressure, reduced profit margins, and loss of market share and brand recognition, any of which could substantially harm our business and financial results. Current and potential competitors include the following (in no particular order): traditional offline suppliers and graphic design providers online printing and graphic design companies office superstores, drug store chains, food retailers, and other major retailers targeting small business and consumer markets wholesale printers self-service desktop design and publishing using personal computer software email marketing services companies website design and hosting companies suppliers of customized apparel, promotional products, gifts, and packaging online photo product companies Internet retailers online providers of custom printing services that outsource production to third party printers providers of digital marketing such as social media and local search directories Many of our current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including longer operating histories, greater brand recognition or loyalty, more focus on a given subset of our business, or significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources. Many of our competitors currently work together, and additional competitors may do so in the future through strategic business agreements or acquisitions. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future choose to collaborate with some of our existing and potential competitors in strategic partnerships that we believe will improve our competitive position and financial results. It is possible, however, that such ventures will be unsuccessful and that our competitive position and financial results will be adversely affected as a result of such collaboration. Failure to meet our customers' price expectations would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to price for almost all of our businesses, and changes in our pricing strategies, including shipping pricing, have had a significant impact on the numbers of customers and orders in some regions, which in turn affects our revenues, profitability, and results of operations. Many factors can significantly impact our pricing and marketing strategies, including the costs of running our business, our competitors' pricing and marketing strategies, and the effects of inflation. If we fail to meet our customers' price expectations, our business and results of operations may suffer. We are subject to safety, health, and environmental laws and regulations, which could result in liabilities, cost increases, or restrictions on our operations. We are subject to a variety of safety, health and environmental, or SHE, laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the storage, handling and disposal of hazardous and other regulated substances and 17 wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. We use regulated substances such as inks and solvents, and generate air emissions and other discharges at our manufacturing facilities, and some of our facilities are required to hold environmental permits. If we fail to comply with existing SHE requirements, or new, more stringent SHE requirements applicable to us are imposed, we may be subject to monetary fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims, or the limitation or suspension of our operations. In addition, if we are found to be responsible for hazardous substances at any location (including, for example, offsite waste disposal facilities or facilities at which we formerly operated), we may be responsible for the cost of cleaning up contamination, regardless of fault, as well as for claims for harm to health or property or for natural resource damages arising out of contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. In some cases we pursue self-imposed socially responsible policies that are more stringent than is typically required by laws and regulations, for instance in the areas of worker safety, team member social benefits and environmental protection such as carbon reduction initiatives. The costs of this added SHE effort are often substantial and could grow over time. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management and key technical, marketing, and production personnel, any of whom may cease their employment with us at any time with minimal advance notice. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from many other companies in diverse industries. The loss of one or more of our key employees may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives, and our failure to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals or to adequately plan for succession could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan. Our credit facility and the indenture that governs our senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. Our senior secured credit facility, which we refer to as our credit facility, and the indenture that governs our 7.0% senior unsecured notes due 2026, which we refer to as our senior notes, contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness, guarantee indebtedness, and incur liens; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain subordinated debt; issue certain preferred stock or similar redeemable equity securities; make loans and investments; sell assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge, or sell all or substantially all of our assets. As a result of these restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct our business, grow in accordance with our strategy, compete effectively, or take advantage of new business opportunities. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them. 18 A default under our indenture or credit facility would have a material, adverse effect on our business. Our failure to make scheduled payments on our debt or our breach of the covenants or restrictions under the indenture that governs our senior notes or under our credit facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default would have a material, adverse effect on our business and financial condition, including the following, among others: Our lenders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, and we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings. Our lenders under the credit facility could terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. We could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our material indebtedness and interest expense could adversely affect our financial condition. As of June 30, 2018 , our total debt was $839.4 million , made up of $400.0 million of senior notes, $432.4 million of loan obligations under our credit facility and $7.0 million of other debt. We had unused commitments of $689.7 million under our credit facility (after giving effect to letter of credit obligations). Subject to the limits contained in the credit facility, the indenture that governs our senior notes, and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general corporate requirements; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as some of our borrowings, including borrowings under our credit facility, are at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry and marketplaces in which we compete; placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and increasing our cost of borrowing. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to economic and competitive conditions and to various financial, business, legislative, regulatory, and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest 19 on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk, and any interest rate swaps we enter into in order to reduce interest rate volatility may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. As of June 30, 2018 , a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in rates, inclusive of our outstanding interest rate swaps, would result in an increase of interest expense of approximately $2.4 million over the next 12 months. Border controls and duties and restrictions on cross-border commerce may negatively impact our business. Many governments impose restrictions on shipping goods into their countries, as well as protectionist measures such as customs duties and tariffs that may apply directly to product categories comprising a material portion of our revenues. The customs laws, rules and regulations that we are required to comply with are complex and subject to unpredictable enforcement and modification. As a result of these restrictions, we have from time to time experienced delays in shipping our manufactured products into certain countries, and changes in cross-border regulations could have a significant negative effect on our business. For example, the current United States administration has made, and may continue to make, major changes in trade policy between the United States and other countries, such as the imposition of additional tariffs and duties on imported products. Because we produce most physical products for our United States customers at our facilities in Canada and Mexico and we source most materials for our products outside the United States, including material amounts of sourcing from China, future changes in tax policy or trade relations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our reputation and brands could be damaged, and others may be able to use our technology, which could substantially harm our business and financial results. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property, but these protective measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to copy or use technology or information that we consider proprietary. There can be no guarantee that any of our pending patent applications or continuation patent applications will be granted, and from time to time we face infringement, invalidity, intellectual property ownership, or similar claims brought by third parties with respect to our patents. In addition, despite our trademark registrations throughout the world, our competitors or other entities may adopt names, marks, or domain names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. Enforcing our intellectual property rights can be extremely costly, and a failure to protect or enforce these rights could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and financial results. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are costly and could cause us to lose our exclusive rights, subject us to liability, or require us to stop some of our business activities. From time to time, we receive claims from third parties that we infringe their intellectual property rights, that we are required to enter into patent licenses covering aspects of the technology we use in our business, or that we improperly obtained or used their confidential or proprietary information. Any litigation, settlement, license, or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if we settle it or it is resolved in our favor, could be costly, divert our management's efforts from managing and growing our business, and create uncertainties that may make 20 it more difficult to run our operations. If any parties successfully claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay significant damages and attorney's fees, and we could be restricted from using certain technologies important to the operation of our business. Our business is dependent on the Internet, and unfavorable changes in government regulation of the Internet, e-commerce, and email marketing could substantially harm our business and financial results. Due to our dependence on the Internet for most of our sales, laws specifically governing the Internet, e-commerce, and email marketing may have a greater impact on our operations than other more traditional businesses. Existing and future laws, such as laws covering pricing, customs, privacy, consumer protection, or commercial email, may impede the growth of e-commerce and our ability to compete with traditional bricks and mortar retailers. Existing and future laws or unfavorable changes or interpretations of these laws could substantially harm our business and financial results. The failure of our business partners to use legal and ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. We contract with multiple business partners in an increasing number of jurisdictions worldwide, including sourcing the raw materials for the products we sell from an expanding number of suppliers and contracting with third-party merchants and manufacturers for the placement and fulfillment of customer orders. We require our suppliers, fulfillers, and merchants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws, including those regarding corruption, working conditions, employment practices, safety and health, and environmental compliance, but we cannot control their business practices. We may not be able to adequately vet, monitor, and audit our many business partners (or their suppliers) throughout the world, and our decentralized structure heightens this risk, as not all of our businesses have equal resources to manage their business partners. If any of them violates labor, environmental, or other laws or implements business practices that are regarded as unethical or inconsistent with our values, our reputation could be severely damaged, and our supply chain and order fulfillment process could be interrupted, which could harm our sales and results of operations. If we were required to review the content that our customers incorporate into our products and interdict the shipment of products that violate copyright protections or other laws, our costs would significantly increase, which would harm our results of operations. Because of our focus on automation and high volumes, the vast majority of our sales do not involve any human-based review of content. Although our websites' terms of use specifically require customers to make representations about the legality and ownership of the content they upload for production, there is a risk that a customer may supply an image or other content for an order we produce that is the property of another party used without permission, that infringes the copyright or trademark of another party, or that would be considered to be defamatory, hateful, obscene, or otherwise objectionable or illegal under the laws of the jurisdiction(s) where that customer lives or where we operate. If we were to become legally obligated to perform manual screening of customer orders, our costs would increase significantly, and we could be required to pay substantial penalties or monetary damages for any failure in our screening process. We are subject to customer payment-related risks. We accept payments for our products and services on our websites by a variety of methods, including credit or debit card, PayPal, check, wire transfer, or other methods. In some geographic regions, we rely on one or two third party companies to provide payment processing services. If any of the payment processing or other companies with which we have contractual arrangements became unwilling or unable to provide these services to us or they or we are unable to comply with our contractual requirements under such arrangements, then we would need to find and engage replacement providers, which we may not be able to do on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, or to process the payments ourselves. Any of these scenarios could be disruptive to our business as they could be costly and time consuming and may unfavorably impact our customers. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud risk. For some payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins or require that we charge our customers more for our products. We are also subject to payment card association and similar operating rules and requirements, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult 21 or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules and requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may be liable for fraudulent transactions conducted on our websites, such as through the use of stolen credit card numbers. To date, quarterly losses from payment fraud have not exceeded 1% of total revenues in any quarter, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud. We may be subject to product liability or environmental compliance claims if people, property, or the environment are harmed by the products we sell. Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability or environmental compliance claims relating to issues such as personal injury, death, property damage, or the use or disposal of environmentally harmful substances and may require product recalls or other actions. Any claims, litigation, or recalls could be costly to us and damage our brands and reputation. Our inability to use or maintain domain names in each country or region where we currently or intend to do business could negatively impact our brands and our ability to sell our products and services in that country or region. We may not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that use our brand names or other trademarks or that otherwise infringe or decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to use or maintain a domain name in a particular country or region, then we could be forced to purchase the domain name from an entity that owns or controls it, which we may not be able to do on commercially acceptable terms or at all; we may incur significant additional expenses to develop a new brand to market our products within that country; or we may elect not to sell products in that country. We do not collect indirect taxes in all jurisdictions, which could expose us to tax liabilities. In some of the jurisdictions where we sell products and services, we do not collect or have imposed upon us sales, value added or other consumption taxes, which we refer to as indirect taxes. The application of indirect taxes to e-commerce businesses such as Cimpress is a complex and evolving issue, and in many cases, it is not clear how existing tax statutes apply to the Internet or e-commerce. If a government entity claims that we should have been collecting indirect taxes on the sale of our products in a jurisdiction where we have not been doing so, then we could incur substantial tax liabilities for past sales. For example, certain of our businesses do not currently collect sales tax in all U.S. states where they sell products. Many state governments in the United States have imposed or are seeking to impose sales tax collection responsibility on out-of-state, online retailers, and the recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. et al. enables states to consider adopting laws requiring remote sellers to collect and remit sales tax, even in states in which the seller has no physical presence. To the extent that individual states decide to adopt similar legislation, this could significantly increase the collection and compliance burden on Cimpress businesses operating in the U.S. In addition, there is risk that a state government in which a Cimpress business currently is not registered to collect and remit sales tax may attempt to assess tax, interest and penalties relating to prior periods. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Challenges by various tax authorities to our international structure could, if successful, increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our earnings. We are a Dutch limited liability company that operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Consequently, we are subject to tax laws, treaties and regulations in the countries in which we operate, and these laws and treaties are subject to interpretation. From time to time, we are subject to tax audits, and the tax authorities in these countries could claim that a greater portion of the income of the Cimpress N.V. group should be subject to income or other tax in their respective jurisdictions, which could result in an increase to our effective tax rate and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties could affect our tax rate and our results of operations. 22 A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax rate on our earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow from operations. In addition to the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the United States, there are currently multiple initiatives for comprehensive tax reform underway in other key jurisdictions where we have operations. We continue to assess the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act as well as various international tax reform proposals and modifications to existing tax treaties in all jurisdictions where we have operations that could result in a material impact on our income taxes. We cannot predict whether any other specific legislation will be enacted or the terms of any such legislation. However, if such proposals were enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on us, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our intercompany arrangements may be challenged, which could result in higher taxes or penalties and an adverse effect on our earnings. We operate pursuant to written transfer pricing agreements among Cimpress N.V. and its subsidiaries, which establish transfer prices for various services performed by our subsidiaries for other Cimpress group companies. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be consistent with those between unrelated companies dealing at arm's length. With the exception of certain jurisdictions where we have obtained rulings or advance pricing agreements, our transfer pricing arrangements are not binding on applicable tax authorities, and no official authority in any other country has made a determination as to whether or not we are operating in compliance with its transfer pricing laws. If tax authorities in any country were successful in challenging our transfer prices as not reflecting arm's length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices. A reallocation of taxable income from a lower tax jurisdiction to a higher tax jurisdiction would result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. Our Articles of Association, Dutch law and the independent foundation, Stichting Continuteit Cimpress , may make it difficult to replace or remove management, may inhibit or delay a change of control or may dilute shareholder voting power. Our Articles of Association, or Articles, as governed by Dutch law, limit our shareholders' ability to suspend or dismiss the members of our management board and supervisory board or to overrule our supervisory board's nominees to our management board and supervisory board by requiring a supermajority vote to do so under most circumstances. As a result, there may be circumstances in which shareholders may not be able to remove members of our management board or supervisory board even if holders of a majority of our ordinary shares favor doing so. In addition, an independent foundation, Stichting Continuteit Cimpress , or the Foundation, exists to safeguard the interests of Cimpress N.V. and its stakeholders, which include but are not limited to our shareholders, and to assist in maintaining Cimpress' continuity and independence. To this end, we have granted the Foundation a call option pursuant to which the Foundation may acquire a number of preferred shares equal to the same number of ordinary shares then outstanding, which is designed to provide a protective measure against unsolicited take-over bids for Cimpress and other hostile threats. If the Foundation were to exercise the call option, it may prevent a change of control or delay or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares. Exercise of the preferred share option would also effectively dilute the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares by one half. We have limited flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management and certain corporate transactions. Dutch law imposes limitations and requirements on corporate actions such as the payment of dividends, issuance of new shares, repurchase of outstanding shares, and corporate acquisitions of a certain size, among other actions. For example, Dutch law requires shareholder approval for many corporate actions that would not be subject to shareholder approval if we were incorporated in the United States. Situations may arise where the flexibility to issue shares, pay dividends, purchase shares, acquire other companies, or take other corporate actions would be beneficial to us, but is subject to limitations, subject to delay due to shareholder approval requirements, or unavailable under Dutch law. 23 Because of our corporate structure, our shareholders may find it difficult to pursue legal remedies against the members of our supervisory board or management board. Our Articles and our internal corporate affairs are governed by Dutch law, and the rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of our supervisory board and management board are different from those established under United States laws. For example, under Dutch law derivative lawsuits are generally not available, and our supervisory board and management board are responsible for acting in the best interests of the company, its business and all of its stakeholders generally (including employees, customers and creditors), not just shareholders. As a result, our shareholders may find it more difficult to protect their interests against actions by members of our supervisory board or management board than they would if we were a U.S. corporation. Because of our corporate structure, our shareholders may find it difficult to enforce claims based on United States federal or state laws, including securities liabilities, against us or our management team. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and the vast majority of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, some of our officers and management reside outside of the United States. In most cases, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by a U.S. federal or state court would not be directly enforceable in the Netherlands. Although there is a process under Dutch law for petitioning a Dutch court to enforce a judgment rendered in the United States, there can be no assurance that a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us or our management team in any lawsuit predicated solely upon U.S. securities or other laws. In addition, because most of our assets are located outside of the United States, it could be difficult for investors to place a lien on our assets in connection with a claim of liability under U.S. laws. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce U.S. court judgments or rights predicated upon U.S. laws against us or our management team outside of the United States. We may not be able to make distributions or purchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to Dutch withholding tax. A Dutch withholding tax may be levied on dividends and similar distributions made by Cimpress N.V. to its shareholders at the statutory rate of 15% if we cannot structure such distributions as being made to shareholders in relation to a reduction of par value, which would be non-taxable for Dutch withholding tax purposes. We have purchased our shares and may seek to purchase additional shares in the future. Under our Dutch Advanced Tax Ruling, a purchase of shares should not result in any Dutch withholding tax if we hold the purchased shares in treasury for the purpose of issuing shares pursuant to employee share awards or for the funding of acquisitions. However, if the shares cannot be used for these purposes, or the Dutch tax authorities successfully challenge the use of the shares for these purposes, such a purchase of shares may be treated as a partial liquidation subject to the 15% Dutch withholding tax to be levied on the difference between our average paid in capital per share for Dutch tax purposes and the redemption price per share, if higher. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company for United States tax purposes, which may subject United States shareholders to adverse tax consequences. If our passive income, or our assets that produce passive income, exceed levels provided by law for any taxable year, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. If we are treated as a PFIC, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares would be subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their ordinary shares. We believe that we were not a PFIC for the tax year ended June 30, 2018 and we expect that we will not become a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, whether we are treated as a PFIC depends on questions of fact as to our assets and revenues that can only be determined at the end of each tax year. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will not be treated as a PFIC in future years. 24 If a United States shareholder owns 10% or more of our ordinary shares, it may be subject to increased United States taxation under the controlled foreign corporation rules. Additionally, this may negatively impact the demand for our ordinary shares. If a United States shareholder owns 10% or more of our ordinary shares, it may be subject to increased United States federal income taxation (and possibly state income taxation) under the controlled foreign corporation rules. In general, if a U.S. person owns (or is deemed to own) at least 10% of the voting power or value of a non-U.S. corporation, or 10% U.S. Shareholder, and if such non-U.S. corporation is a controlled foreign corporation, or CFC,then such 10% U.S. Shareholder who owns (or is deemed to own) shares in the CFC on the last day of the CFC's taxable year must include in its gross income for United States federal income tax (and possibly state income tax) purposes its pro rata share of the CFC's subpart F income, even if the "subpart F income" is not distributed. In addition, a 10% U.S. shareholder's pro rata share of other income of a CFC, even if not distributed, might also need to be included in a 10% U.S. Shareholders gross income for United States federal income tax (and possibly state income tax) purposes under the global intangible low-taxed income or GILTI provisions of the U.S. tax law. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if one or more 10% U.S. Shareholders together own more than 50% of the voting power or value of the corporation on any day during the taxable year of the corporation. Subpart F income consists of, among other things, certain types of dividends, interest, rents, royalties, gains, and certain types of income from services and personal property sales. The rules for determining ownership for purposes of determining 10% U.S. Shareholder and CFC status are complicated, depend on the particular facts relating to each investor, and are not necessarily the same as the rules for determining beneficial ownership for SEC reporting purposes. For taxable years in which we are a CFC, each of our 10% U.S. Shareholders will be required to include in its gross income for United States federal income tax (and possibly state income tax) purposes its pro rata share of our "subpart F income," even if the subpart F income is not distributed by us, and might also be required to include its pro rata share of other income of ours, even if not distributed by us, under the GILTI provisions of the U.S. tax law. We currently do not believe we are a CFC. However, whether we are treated as a CFC can be affected by, among other things, facts as to our share ownership that may change. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will not be treated as a CFC in future years. The risk of being subject to increased taxation as a CFC may deter our current shareholders from acquiring additional ordinary shares or new shareholders from establishing a position in our ordinary shares. Either of these scenarios could impact the demand for, and value of, our ordinary shares. The ownership of our ordinary shares is highly concentrated, which could cause or exacerbate volatility in our share price. More than 70% of our ordinary shares are held by our top 10 shareholders, and we may repurchase shares in the future, which could further increase the concentration of our share ownership. Because of this reduced liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders could disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously if a large number of our ordinary shares were sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a company with greater trading liquidity that could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties We own real property including the following manufacturing operations that provide support across our businesses: A 582,000 square foot facility located near Windsor, Ontario, Canada that primarily services our Vistaprint business. A 492,000 square foot facility located in Shelbyville, Tennessee, USA, that primarily services our National Pen business. A 362,000 square foot facility located in Venlo, the Netherlands that primarily services our Vistaprint business. A 130,000 square foot facility located in Kisarazu, Japan that primarily services our Vistaprint and National Pen businesses in the Japanese market. 25 A 124,000 square foot facility located in Deer Park, Australia that primarily services our Vistaprint business. A 97,000 square feet, located near Montpellier, France that primarily services our Upload and Print businesses. As of June 30, 2018, a summary of our currently occupied leased spaces is as follows: Business Segment (1) Square Feet Type Lease Expirations Vistaprint 674,459 Technology development, marketing, customer service, manufacturing and administrative December 2018 - November 2026 Upload and Print 713,595 Technology development, marketing, customer service, manufacturing and administrative February 2019 - December 2025 National Pen 314,533 Marketing, customer service, manufacturing and administrative April 2021 - April 2027 All Other Businesses 329,773 Technology development, marketing, customer service, manufacturing and administrative December 2019 - August 2023 Other (2) 86,908 Corporate strategy and technology development July 2020 - June 2023 ___________________ (1) Many of our leased properties are utilized by multiple business segments, but each have been assigned to the segment that occupies the majority of our leased space. (2) Includes locations that are exclusively corporate or central functions. We believe that the total space available to us in the facilities we own or lease, and space that is obtainable by us on commercially reasonable terms, will meet our needs for the foreseeable future. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth in Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 17 Commitments and Contingencies, in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Report. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The ordinary shares of Cimpress N.V. are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (the "NASDAQ") under the symbol CMPR. As of July 31, 2018, there were approximately 12 holders of record of our ordinary shares, although there is a much larger number of beneficial owners. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale price per share of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ: High Low Fiscal 2017: First Quarter $ 104.18 $ 88.31 Second Quarter $ 102.95 $ 80.47 Third Quarter $ 99.99 $ 79.15 Fourth Quarter $ 94.47 $ 78.80 Fiscal 2018: First Quarter $ 99.99 $ 80.61 Second Quarter $ 123.95 $ 98.00 Third Quarter $ 171.76 $ 119.52 Fourth Quarter $ 163.94 $ 133.77 26 Dividends We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our ordinary shares, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to finance the growth and operations of our business, investment in or acquisition of other businesses, purchase of our ordinary shares, or pay down of our debt. Under Dutch law, we may pay dividends only out of profits shown on our annual accounts prepared in accordance with Dutch law and adopted by our shareholders rather than the financial statements regularly filed with the SEC, and only to the extent our equity exceeds the sum of the paid and called up portion of our ordinary share capital and the reserves that must be maintained in accordance with provisions of Dutch law and our articles of association. In addition, the terms of our outstanding indebtedness restrict our ability to pay dividends, as further described in Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 10 - Debt," and in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of this Report. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities On November 14, 2017, our Supervisory Board authorized the repurchase of up to 6,300,000 of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares on the open market (including block trades that satisfy the safe harbor provisions of Rule 10b-18 pursuant to the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934), through privately negotiated transactions, or in one or more self-tender offers. This share repurchase authorization expires on May 14, 2019, and we may suspend or discontinue our share repurchases at any time. We did not repurchase any shares during the three months ended June 30, 2018, and 5,857,443 shares remain available for repurchase under this program, subject to certain limitations imposed by our debt covenants. Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total return to shareholders of Cimpress N.V. ordinary shares relative to the cumulative total returns of the NASDAQ Composite index and the Research Data Group (RDG) Internet Composite index. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in our ordinary shares and in each of the indexes on June 30, 2013 and the relative performance of each investment is tracked through June 30, 2018. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN Among Cimpress N.V., the NASDAQ Composite Index and the RDG Internet Composite Index 27 Year Ended June 30, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Cimpress N.V. $ 100.00 $ 81.95 $ 170.47 $ 187.32 $ 191.47 $ 293.62 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 132.45 151.00 148.88 189.66 233.12 RDG Internet Composite 100.00 139.66 153.13 186.25 251.39 350.12 The share price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future share price performance. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, the related notes and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Report. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Year Ended June 30, 2018 (a) 2017 (b) 2016 (c) 2015 (d) 2014 (e) (In thousands, except share and per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 2,592,541 $ 2,135,405 $ 1,788,044 $ 1,494,206 $ 1,270,236 Net income (loss) attributable to Cimpress N.V. 43,733 (71,711 ) 54,349 92,212 43,696 Net income (loss) per share attributable to Cimpress N.V.: Basic $ 1.41 $ (2.29 ) $ 1.72 $ 2.82 $ 1.33 Diluted (f) $ 1.36 $ (2.29 ) $ 1.64 $ 2.73 $ 1.28 Shares used in computing net income (loss) per share attributable to Cimpress N.V.: Basic 30,948,081 31,291,581 31,656,234 32,644,870 32,873,234 Diluted (f) 32,220,401 31,291,581 33,049,454 33,816,498 34,239,909 Year Ended June 30, 2018 (a) 2017 (b) 2016 (c) 2015 (d) 2014 (e) (In thousands) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 192,332 $ 156,736 $ 247,358 $ 242,022 $ 153,739 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (60,930 ) (74,157 ) (80,435 ) (75,813 ) (72,122 ) Purchases of ordinary shares (94,710 ) (50,008 ) (153,467 ) (42,016 ) Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired (110 ) (204,875 ) (164,412 ) (123,804 ) (216,384 ) Proceeds from the sale of subsidiaries, net of transaction costs and cash divested 93,779 Net (payments) proceeds of debt and debt issuance costs (54,415 ) 196,933 167,316 54,207 207,946 Year Ended June 30, 2018 (a) 2017 (b) 2016 (c) 2015 (d) 2014 (e) (In thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 44,227 $ 25,697 $ 85,319 $ 110,494 $ 76,365 Net current liabilities (g) (241,728 ) (203,482 ) (135,095 ) (89,580 ) (83,560 ) Total assets 1,652,217 1,679,869 1,463,869 1,299,794 985,495 Total long-term debt, excluding current portion (h) 767,585 847,730 656,794 493,039 408,150 Total shareholders equity 93,947 75,212 166,076 249,419 232,457 ___________________ (a) Includes the Albumprinter results through the divestiture date of August 31, 2017. See Note 7 in our accompanying financial statements in this Report for a discussion of this divestiture. (b) Includes the impact of the acquisition of National Pen on December 30, 2016. See Note 7 in our accompanying financial statements in this Report for a discussion of this acquisition. During December 2016, we purchased the remaining noncontrolling interest of our Japan business from our joint business partner, Plaza Create Co. Ltd. 28 (c) Includes the impact of the acquisitions of Litotipografia Alcione S.r.l. on July 29, 2015, Tradeprint Distribution Limited on July 31, 2015, and WIRmachenDRUCK GmbH on February 1, 2016. See Note 7 in our accompanying financial statements in this Report for a discussion of these acquisitions. During fiscal 2016, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-09 requiring the recognition of excess tax benefits as a component of income tax expense; these benefits were historically recognized in equity. As the standard required a prospective method of adoption, our fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 net income includes $12.8 million, $8.0 million and $3.5 million of income tax benefits, respectively, due to the adoption that did not occur in the prior comparable periods presented above. (d) Includes the impact of the acquisitions of FotoKnudsen AS on July 1, 2014, FL Print SAS on April 9, 2015, Exagroup SAS on April 15, 2015 and druck.at Druck-und Handelsgesellschft mbH on April 17, 2015, as well as our investment in Printi LLC on August 7, 2014. (e) Includes the impact of the acquisitions of Printdeal B.V. on April 1, 2014 and Pixartprinting S.p.A. on April 3, 2014, as well as our investment in a joint business arrangement with Plaza Create Co. Ltd. in February 2014. (f) In the periods we report a net loss, the impact of share options, RSUs, and RSAs is not included as they are anti-dilutive. (g) Our net current liabilities (current assets minus current liabilities) have increased over recent years as we have made long-term investments that seek to drive shareholder value through acquisitions, ordinary share purchases, and other strategic initiatives. We have financed these investments through a mix of cash on hand, cash flows generated from operations and external debt financing. Additionally, many of our businesses have a cash conversion cycle that results in current liabilities being higher than current assets. (h) On June 15, 2018, we completed a private placement of $400.0 million of 7.0% senior unsecured notes due 2026. The proceeds from the sales of the notes were used to repay our existing $275.0 million senior unsecured notes that were due 2022, a portion of our indebtedness outstanding under our senior secured credit facility and other related transaction fees. See Note 10 in our accompanying financial statements in this Report for additional discussion. Increases in long-term debt during the periods presented have largely been driven by the funding of acquisitions outlined including those outlined in Note 7 and share repurchases. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including but not limited to our statements about anticipated revenue growth rates, planned investments in our business and the expected effects of those investments, seasonality of certain of our businesses, the impacts of changes in accounting standards, the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the sufficiency of our tax reserves, sufficiency of our cash, legal proceedings, expected operating losses at newer businesses, expected allocations of capital, the anticipated competitive position of certain of our businesses, and the impact of exchange rate and currency volatility. Without limiting the foregoing, the words may, should, could, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, designed, potential, continue, target, seek and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements included in this Report are based on information available to us up to, and including the date of this document, and we disclaim any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain important factors, including those set forth in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report. You should carefully review those factors and also carefully review the risks outlined in other documents that we file from time to time with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Executive Overview Cimpress is a strategically-focused group of more than a dozen businesses that specialize in mass customization, via which we deliver large volumes of individually small-sized customized orders for a broad spectrum of print, signage, photo merchandise, invitations and announcements, packaging, apparel and other categories. We invest in and build customer-focused, entrepreneurial mass customization businesses for the long term, which we manage in a decentralized, autonomous manner. We drive competitive advantage across Cimpress through a select few shared strategic capabilities that have the greatest potential to create Cimpress wide value. We limit all other central activities to only those which absolutely must be performed centrally. As of June 30, 2018 , we have numerous operating segments under our management reporting structure that are reported in the following four reportable segments: Vistaprint, Upload and Print, National Pen, and All Other Businesses. Vistaprint represents our Vistaprint websites focused on the North America, Europe, Australia and New Zealand markets, and our Webs business, which is managed with the Vistaprint digital business. Upload and Print includes the druck.at, Easyflyer, Exagroup, Pixartprinting, Printdeal, Tradeprint, and WIRmachenDRUCK businesses. National Pen includes the global operations of our National Pen business. All Other Businesses segment includes the operations of our Printi, Vistaprint India, Vistaprint Japan and Vistaprint Corporate Solutions businesses, and the Albumprinter business, through its divestiture on August 31, 2017. 29 During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we began presenting inter-segment fulfillment activity as revenue for the fulfilling business for purposes of measuring and reporting our segment financial performance. This change in presentation was driven by our recent transition to a decentralized organizational structure, and this presentation aligns with our internal reporting and the way in which our business' performance is evaluated. We have revised historical results to reflect the consistent application of our current accounting methodology. In addition, we adjusted our historical segment profitability for the allocation of certain IT costs that are allocated to each of our businesses in fiscal 2018, to better reflect where those resources are consumed. Refer to Note 16 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional details of these changes. Financial Summary The primary financial metric by which we set quarterly and annual budgets both for individual businesses and Cimpress-wide is our free cash flow prior to cash interest costs; however, in evaluating the financial condition and operating performance of our business, management considers a number of metrics including revenue growth, constant-currency revenue growth, operating income, adjusted net operating profit, cash flow from operations and free cash flow. A summary of these key financial metrics for the year ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the year ended June 30, 2017 follows: Fiscal year 2018 Revenue increased by 21% to $2,592.5 million . Consolidated constant-currency revenue (a non-GAAP financial measure) increased by 17% and, excluding acquisitions and divestitures completed in the last four quarters, increased by 11% . Operating income (loss) increased by $203.5 million to $157.8 million . Adjusted net operating profit (a non-GAAP financial measure which we refer to as adjusted NOP) increased by $69.8 million to $165.5 million . Cash provided by operating activities increased by $35.6 million to $192.3 million . Free cash flow (a non-GAAP financial measure) increased by $94.4 million to $139.5 million . For our fiscal year 2018, the increase in reported revenue includes the impact of a full year of National Pen revenue as compared to a portion of the prior year due to timing of the acquisition, continued growth in our various businesses, as well as positive impacts from currency exchange rate fluctuations. This was partially offset by the loss of Albumprinter revenue as we divested this business as of August 31, 2017. Our constant-currency revenue growth excluding acquisitions and divestitures was driven primarily by continued growth in our Vistaprint and Upload and Print businesses. In addition to incremental profits generated from the revenue growth described above, the following items positively impacted our operating income for the year ended June 30, 2018, leading to the increase in operating income as compared to the prior period: Significant year-over-year operating expense savings of approximately $55 million related to the restructuring actions announced in January and November 2017, as well as a reduction of restructuring charges of $11.5 million . Recognized gain on the sale of subsidiaries of $47.5 million , related to the August 2017 sale of Albumprinter. Decrease of acquisition-related expenses of $46.6 million , due to the following: Reduction to earn-out related charges of $40.7 million , related primarily to the WIRmachenDRUCK contingent earn-out arrangement that was paid in fiscal year 2018. Impairment charges of $9.6 million recognized during the prior period, which did not recur during the current period. Increased amortization of acquired intangible assets of $3.7 million , due to the timing of our fiscal year 2017 acquisition of National Pen, which partially offset the above decreases. 30 Increase in National Pen segment profit of $24.4 million , primarily due to the timing of the acquisition in fiscal year 2017. Decreased impact of organic investments in fiscal year 2018 as compared to fiscal year 2017, due to reduced net investments in various areas including "Columbus" which was the name of a project to organically build our business in promotional products and logo apparel, new product introduction, and the businesses within our All Other Businesses segment. Adjusted NOP increased significantly year over year primarily due to the same reasons as operating income mentioned above, although adjusted NOP excludes the impact of the gain from the purchase or sale of subsidiaries, restructuring charges and acquisition-related charges, and includes realized gains or losses on our currency hedges. The net year-over-year impact of currency on adjusted NOP was negative for the year ended June 30, 2018 . Consolidated Results of Operations Revenue Our businesses generate revenue primarily from the sale and shipment of customized manufactured products. To a much lesser extent (and only in our Vistaprint business) we provide digital services, website design and hosting, and email marketing services, as well as a small percentage from order referral fees and other third-party offerings. For the year ended June 30, 2018, our reported revenue increased as compared to the prior comparable period. This includes the full year revenue benefit of the National Pen business as results were included for only a portion of the prior period. We also delivered continued growth in our Vistaprint and Upload and Print businesses. Our reported revenue was negatively impacted by the divestiture of our Albumprinter business, which was completed during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The remaining businesses within our All Other Businesses segment continue to grow strongly off small bases. Currency fluctuations positively impacted our fiscal 2018 reported revenue as compared to the prior year. For the year ended June 30, 2017, our reported revenue increased primarily due to the addition of revenue from our WIRmachenDRUCK business acquired on February 1, 2016 and our National Pen business acquired on December 30, 2016. The increase in reported revenue other than the impact of acquisitions for which there is no comparable prior period was driven by continued growth in our Vistaprint business, as well as growth in our other Upload and Print businesses, which was partially offset by declines from the termination of two partner contracts within our Albumprinter and Vistaprint Corporate Solutions businesses. Currency fluctuations negatively impacted our fiscal year 2017 reported revenue as compared to the prior year. Total revenue and revenue growth by reportable segment for the years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016 are shown in the following tables: In thousands Year Ended June 30, Currency Impact: Constant- Currency Impact of Acquisitions/Divestitures: Constant- Currency Revenue Growth 2018 2017 % Change (Favorable)/Unfavorable Revenue Growth (1) (Favorable)/Unfavorable Excluding Acquisitions/Divestitures (2) Vistaprint $ 1,462,686 $ 1,310,975 12% (3)% 9% % 9% Upload and Print 730,010 588,613 24% (11)% 13% % 13% National Pen 333,266 112,712 196% (6)% 190% (165)% 25% All Other Businesses (3) 87,583 128,795 (32)% % (32)% 72% 40% Inter-segment eliminations (21,004 ) (5,690 ) Total revenue $ 2,592,541 $ 2,135,405 21% (4)% 17% (6)% 11% 31 In thousands Year Ended June 30, Currency Impact: Constant- Currency Impact of Acquisitions/Divestitures: Constant- Currency Revenue Growth 2017 2016 % Change (Favorable)/Unfavorable Revenue Growth (1) (Favorable)/Unfavorable Excluding Acquisitions/Divestitures (2) Vistaprint $ 1,310,975 $ 1,220,751 7% 2% 9% % 9% Upload and Print 588,613 432,638 36% 3% 39% (26)% 13% National Pen 112,712 100% % 100% (100)% % All Other Businesses (3) 128,795 138,244 (7)% % (7)% % (7)% Inter-segment eliminations (5,690 ) (3,589 ) Total revenue $ 2,135,405 $ 1,788,044 19% 2% 21% (13)% 8% _________________ (1) Constant-currency revenue growth, a non-GAAP financial measure, represents the change in total revenue, between current and prior year periods at constant-currency exchange rates by translating all non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue generated in the current period using the prior year periods average exchange rate for each currency to the U.S. dollar. Our reportable segments-related growth is inclusive of inter-segment revenues, which are eliminated in our consolidated results. (2) Constant-currency revenue growth excluding acquisitions/divestitures, a non-GAAP financial measure, excludes revenue results for businesses in the period in which there is no comparable year-over-year revenue. Revenue from our fiscal year 2017 acquisitions is excluded from fiscal year 2018 revenue growth for quarters with no comparable year-over-year revenue. For example, revenue from National Pen, which we acquired on December 30, 2016 in Q2 2017, is excluded from revenue growth in Q1 and Q2 of fiscal year 2018 since there are no full quarter results in the comparable periods, but revenue is included in revenue growth for Q3 and Q4 of fiscal year 2018. Our reportable segments-related growth is inclusive of inter-segment revenues, which are eliminated in our consolidated results. (3) The All Other Businesses segment includes the revenue of the Albumprinter business until the sale completion date of August 31, 2017. Constant-currency revenue growth excluding acquisitions/divestitures, excludes the revenue results for Albumprinter through the divestiture date. We have provided these non-GAAP financial measures because we believe they provide meaningful information regarding our results on a consistent and comparable basis for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures, in addition to GAAP financial measures, to evaluate our operating results. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered supplemental to and not a substitute for our reported financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes materials used by our businesses to manufacture their products, payroll and related expenses for production and design services personnel, depreciation of assets used in the production process and in support of digital marketing service offerings, shipping, handling and processing costs, third-party production costs, costs of free products and other related costs of products our businesses sell. Cost of revenue as a percent of revenue increased during the year ended June 30, 2018 , compared to the prior year, primarily due to the divestiture of our Albumprinter business which had a higher gross margin than our consolidated gross margin percentage, as well as the increased weight of our Upload and Print portfolio, which has higher cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue than our Vistaprint and National Pen businesses. In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 Cost of revenue $ 1,279,799 $ 1,036,975 $ 773,640 % of revenue 49.4 % 48.6 % 43.3 % For the year ended June 30, 2018 , cost of revenue for our Upload and Print businesses increased by $103.6 million primarily driven by revenue growth in our Exagroup, Pixartprinting, Printdeal and WIRmachenDRUCK businesses, as well as unfavorable currency impacts. We also recognized an additional $91.6 million of costs primarily due to the timing of our National Pen acquisition and the inclusion of operating results for only part of the prior comparable period. In our Vistaprint business, cost of revenue increased by $71.5 million primarily due to increased production volume, as well as unfavorable currency impacts. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in cost of revenue of $29.2 million resulting from the divestiture of our Albumprinter business on August 31, 2017. For the year ended June 30, 2017, our cost of revenue increased due to $123.6 million of additional costs from our Upload and Print businesses, primarily due to the impact of our fiscal year 2016 WIRmachenDRUCK acquisition which only partially contributed to the prior comparable period. In addition, the costs from our Vistaprint 32 business increased by $91.1 million , primarily due to increased production volume; product mix; and planned investments including expanded design services, new product introduction, and shipping price reductions that also result in higher shipping costs. Vistaprint also recognized higher costs from production inefficiencies in the second fiscal quarter of 2017 resulting from higher temporary labor costs at our Canadian production facility. We recognized an additional $48.6 million of costs from our National Pen business, which was acquired on December 30, 2016 and was therefore not included in the comparable period. Consolidated Operating Expenses The following table summarizes our comparative operating expenses for the periods: In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 Technology and development expense $ 245,758 $ 243,230 $ 210,080 % of revenue 9.5 % 11.4 % 11.7 % Marketing and selling expense $ 714,654 $ 610,932 $ 508,502 % of revenue 27.6 % 28.6 % 28.3 % General and administrative expense $ 176,958 $ 207,569 $ 145,844 % of revenue 6.8 % 9.7 % 8.2 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 49,881 $ 46,145 $ 40,563 % of revenue 1.9 % 2.2 % 2.3 % Restructuring expense $ 15,236 $ 26,700 $ 381 % of revenue 0.6 % 1.3 % % (Gain) on sale of subsidiaries $ (47,545 ) $ $ % of revenue (1.8 )% % % Impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets $ $ 9,556 $ 30,841 % of revenue % 0.4 % 1.7 % Technology and development expense Technology and development expense consists primarily of payroll and related expenses for employees engaged in software and manufacturing engineering, information technology operations and content development, as well as amortization of capitalized software and website development costs, including hosting of our websites, asset depreciation, patent amortization, legal settlements in connection with patent-related claims, and other technology infrastructure-related costs. Depreciation expense for information technology equipment that directly supports the delivery of our digital marketing services products is included in cost of revenue. During the year ended June 30, 2018 , technology and development expenses increased by $2.5 million as compared to the prior year, primarily due to our fiscal year 2017 acquisition of National Pen, which resulted in $7.3 million of additional expense in fiscal 2018 due to the timing of the acquisition in fiscal 2017. We also recognized additional costs related to technology enhancements intended to enable rapid product introduction and improved connection points to the mass customization platform, as well as increased depreciation expense related to past investments in infrastructure-related assets. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in costs of $9.4 million , resulting from the divestiture of our Albumprinter business on August 31, 2017, as well as cost savings realized as a result of our recent restructuring initiatives. The growth in our technology and development expenses of $33.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the prior comparative period was primarily due to increased headcount-related expenses in our technology development and information technology support organizations of $15.8 million . The increase in headcount supported the continued development of our software-based mass customization platform as well as investments to enhance capabilities and address each of our businesses' specific needs. This increase was partially offset by headcount reductions as a result of the third quarter fiscal 2017 restructuring initiative. All employee severance related charges were reflected separately in restructuring expense. Additionally, the acquisition of National Pen resulted in increased technology and development expenses of $5.9 million for the year ended June 30, 2017, without costs in the prior comparable period. Other increases in technology and development expense 33 included technology infrastructure-related costs, primarily due to increased IT cloud service costs, as well as software maintenance and licensing costs. Marketing and selling expense Marketing and selling expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional costs; payroll and related expenses for our employees engaged in marketing, sales, customer support and public relations activities; direct-mail advertising costs; and third-party payment processing fees. Our Vistaprint and National Pen businesses have higher marketing and selling costs as a percentage of revenue, as compared to our Upload and Print businesses. Our marketing and selling expenses increased by $103.7 million during the year ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior year. We recognized an additional $84.3 million of costs for our National Pen business, primarily due to the timing of the acquisition in fiscal 2017. For the year ended June 30, 2018 , advertising expenses for the remaining businesses increased by $35.1 million primarily as a result of additional advertising spend in the Vistaprint business to support continued growth. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in costs of $21.7 million due to the sale of our Albumprinter business on August 31, 2017. In addition, internal marketing and customer service costs within the Vistaprint business decreased by $3.7 million as a result of realized cost savings from our recent restructuring initiatives. Our marketing and selling expenses increased by $102.4 million during the year ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the prior comparative period, largely due to the addition of National Pen which incurred $47.9 million of marketing and selling expense for direct-mail advertising and telesales costs that were not in the prior comparable period. In addition, advertising expense increased by $31.8 million , which was primarily a result of additional advertising spend in the Vistaprint business. Other increases included payroll and employee-related costs, inclusive of share-based compensation, as we expanded our marketing, customer service and sales support organization through our recent acquisitions and continued investment in the Vistaprint business customer service resources in order to provide higher value services to our customers. General and administrative expense General and administrative expense consists primarily of transaction costs, including third-party professional fees, insurance and payroll and related expenses of employees involved in executive management, finance, legal, strategy, human resources and procurement. For the year ended June 30, 2018 , general and administrative expenses decreased by $30.6 million primarily due to a decline in acquisition-related charges of $40.7 million , as compared to the prior year. The decrease in acquisition-related charges is due to significant expense in the prior comparable period for the WIRmachenDRUCK contingent earn-out arrangement, which was paid during fiscal 2018. We also recognized cost savings from our recent restructuring actions, which were partially offset by an additional $13.0 million of expense from our fiscal 2017 acquisition of National Pen as the prior year did not include a full year of results. During the year ended June 30, 2017, general and administrative expenses increased by $61.7 million , as compared to the prior comparative period, driven by $37.3 million of incremental expense for the WIRmachenDRUCK earn-out due to strong performance during fiscal 2017 and our expectation that a maximum payout would be achieved. Payroll, share-based compensation and facility-related costs increased by $12.0 million due to additional expense recognized for the acceleration of vesting terms of certain restricted share awards associated with our investment in Printi and acquisition of Tradeprint, as well as an increase in share-based compensation resulting from our new long-term incentive program. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in compensation expense due to headcount reductions as a result of the third quarter fiscal 2017 restructuring initiative. Fiscal 2017 also included $12.4 million of expense for National Pen's partial year results. Amortization of acquired intangible assets Amortization of acquired intangible assets consists of amortization expense associated with separately identifiable intangible assets capitalized as part of our acquisitions, including customer relationships, trade names, developed technologies, print networks, and customer and referral networks. Amortization of acquired intangible assets increased by $3.7 million during the year ended June 30, 2018 , as compared to the prior comparable period, due to a full year of amortization expense for the December 30, 2016 34 acquisition of National Pen that was not included in our results for the entire prior comparable period. Amortization of acquired intangible assets increased by $5.6 million during the year ended June 30, 2017, as compared to the year ended June 30, 2016, due to amortization for our fiscal 2017 acquisition of National Pen and fiscal 2016 acquisition of WIRmachenDRUCK. Restructuring expense Restructuring expense consists of costs directly incurred as a result of restructuring initiatives, including employee-related termination costs, third party professional fees, facility exit costs and write-off of abandoned assets. During the year ended June 30, 2018 , we recognized restructuring expense of $15.2 million for employee-related termination benefits. The restructuring expense during the current period relates primarily to the reorganization of our Vistaprint business that we announced in November 2017, which resulted in a reduction in headcount and other operating costs. Refer to Note 18 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional details regarding the reorganization. The restructuring costs of $26.7 million recognized in the year ended June 30, 2017 were primarily related to our January 2017 restructuring initiative. Gain on sale of subsidiaries During the year ended June 30, 2018 , we recognized a gain on the sale of our Albumprinter business of $47.5 million , net of transaction costs. The amount of our gain on the sale of Albumprinter was impacted by the partial allocation of goodwill to our Vistaprint business in past periods, as well as minimal carrying value of Albumprinter's acquired intangible assets at the time of the sale, as well as currency impacts. Refer to Note 7 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional details. Impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets There were no impairment charges related to goodwill or acquired intangible assets during the year ended June 30, 2018. For the years ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, we recognized an impairment charge of $9.6 million for our Tradeprint reporting unit and $30.8 million for our Exagroup reporting unit, respectively. These impairments were a result of their under performance during the impairment period, combined with lower cash flow outlooks when compared to the initial deal model upon which we based our purchase accounting. Refer to Note 8 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to the impairments. Other Consolidated Results Other (expense) income, net Other (expense) income, net generally consists of gains and losses from currency exchange rate fluctuations on transactions or balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries, as well as the realized and unrealized gains and losses on some of our derivative instruments. In evaluating our currency hedging program and ability to qualify for hedge accounting in light of our legal entity cash flows, we considered the benefits of hedge accounting relative to the additional economic cost of trade execution and administrative burden. Based on this analysis, we decided to execute certain currency derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting. The following table summarizes the components of other (expense) income, net: In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 (Losses) gains on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments $ (2,687 ) $ 936 $ 14,026 Currency-related (losses) gains, net (19,500 ) 5,577 6,864 Other gains 1,155 3,849 5,208 Total other (expense) income, net $ (21,032 ) $ 10,362 $ 26,098 35 During the year ended June 30, 2018 , we recognized a net loss of $21.0 million as compared to net gains during the prior comparable periods. The decrease in other (expense) income, net is primarily due to the currency exchange rate volatility impacting our derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments. We expect volatility to continue in future periods as we do not apply hedge accounting for most of our derivative currency contracts. We also experienced currency-related losses due to currency exchange rate volatility on our non-functional currency intercompany relationships, which we alter from time to time. The impact of certain cross-currency swap contracts designated as cash flow hedges is included in our currency-related (losses) gains, net, offsetting the impact of certain non-functional currency intercompany relationships. In addition, during the years ended June 30, 2018 and 2016, we recognized other gains related to insurance recoveries. During fiscal year 2017, other gains were primarily related to the sale of marketable securities. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net primarily consists of interest paid on outstanding debt balances, amortization of debt issuance costs, interest related to capital lease obligations and realized gains (losses) on effective interest rate swap contracts and certain cross-currency swap contracts. As part of interest expense, net, we also recognize adjustments to our mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests, which reflects changes to the estimated future redemption value. Interest expense, net was $53.0 million , $44.0 million , and $38.2 million for the years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Interest expense was higher this year relative to historical trends primarily as a result of higher interest rates. Refer to Note 10 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional details regarding our debt arrangements. During the year ended June 30, 2018, we recognized $2.2 million of interest expense for adjustments to our Printi noncontrolling interest, which reflects an increase to the estimated future redemption value. We recognized no expense during the prior comparable periods. Loss on early extinguishment of debt During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we redeemed all of our senior notes due 2022 and satisfied the indenture governing those senior notes using funds from the senior notes due 2026 that we issued on June 15, 2018. As a result of the redemption, we incurred a loss on the extinguishment of debt of $17.4 million , which included an early redemption premium for the senior notes due 2022 of $14.4 million and the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs related to the redeemed notes of $3.0 million . Income tax expense In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 Income tax expense (benefit) $ 19,578 $ (7,118 ) $ 15,684 Effective tax rate 29.5 % 9.0 % 23.7 % Income tax expense for the year ended June 30, 2018 was higher than the prior year primarily due to pre-tax income in the current period as compared to pre-tax losses in the prior period. In fiscal 2018, we adopted ASU 2016-16, "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory." If we had not adopted ASU 2016-16 in fiscal year 2018, tax expense would have been lower by $8.4 million. Additionally, we recognized tax expense of $5.8 million related to U.S. tax reform in the year ended June 30, 2018 , primarily due to the impact of the reduction in the federal tax rate on our U.S. deferred tax assets. We also recognized a reduction to our deferred tax assets of $4.9 million related to expected changes to our U.S. state apportionment. These impacts were offset by increased share based compensation tax benefits of $12.8 million as compared to $8.0 million in fiscal 2017. A tax benefit was recognized for the year ended June 30, 2017 primarily due to pre-tax losses as compared to pre-tax income for the year ended June 30, 2016. Additionally, the effective tax rate was higher in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2017 due to a large nondeductible goodwill impairment charge in fiscal 2016. On December 22, 2017, H.R. 1, originally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, ("The Act") was signed into 36 law, resulting in significant changes to U.S. federal tax law for corporations. Among these changes is the immediate reduction in the federal statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%. As discussed in Note 13 in our accompanying consolidated financial statements, the impact of The Act was unfavorable to our fiscal 2018 tax provision mainly due to a one-time reduction to our existing U.S. deferred tax assets. The reduction in our net deferred tax assets reduces the future cash tax benefit on existing timing differences as of the date of enactment; however, we will also benefit from a reduced tax rate that will apply to future taxable earnings. Overall, we expect our future U.S. cash taxes to be lower based solely on the reduction in the U.S. federal tax rate to 21%. For context, going forward we expect the annualized impact of the U.S. federal tax rate reduction alone on our cash taxes (excluding the impact of other tax reform items) to be approximately $2 million . Our tax balances were adjusted for the year ended June 30, 2018 based upon our interpretation of The Act, although the final impact on our tax balances may change due to the issuance of additional guidance, changes in our interpretation of The Act, changes in assumptions, and actions we may take as a result of The Act. We will continue to review and assess the potential impact of any new information on our financial statement positions. We expect certain other aspects of the The Act will impact Cimpress beyond fiscal 2018, including the beneficial impact of immediate expensing of certain qualified capital expenditures in the U.S., unfavorable changes to, and limitations on, the deductibility of meals and entertainment expense, limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, and unfavorable changes to the deductibility of executive compensation. Most notably, we expect changes in the deductibility of performance based executive compensation to impact Cimpress negatively in the longer term. Historically, certain compensation awards issued to our top executives, such as stock options, were considered "performance based" as defined under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and, therefore, were not subject to the annual $1 million deduction limitation per individual, as defined under prior law. The new law eliminates the "performance-based" exception for these types of awards to the extent they are not "grandfathered" in and granted under a written binding agreement in effect on November 2, 2017. Prior to this change, Cimpress had not been limited on the deductibility of performance based awards, which resulted in sizable cash and GAAP tax benefits in past years. We believe that most of the share-based compensation awards to date meet the "grandfather" requirement and will not be subject to the annual $1 million deduction limitation. However, future equity awards to our named executive officers may no longer be fully deductible upon vest or exercise over the long term. This will negatively impact our GAAP and cash taxes in the year of vest or exercise. As an example, performance share units (PSUs) granted to named executive officers under our current PSU plan that are subject to this limitation will vest no earlier than fiscal 2024 and may be subject to limited deductibility for U.S. tax purposes in that year. Our cash paid for income taxes for fiscal 2018 and 2017 was higher than our income tax expense primarily as a result of non-cash tax benefits recognized in our income tax expense relating to timing differences for which the cash benefit is expected to occur in a future period. We believe that our income tax reserves are adequately maintained by taking into consideration both the technical merits of our tax return positions and ongoing developments in our income tax audits. However, the final determination of our tax return positions, if audited, is uncertain and therefore there is a possibility that final resolution of these matters could have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. See Note 13 in our accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Reportable Segment Results Our segment financial performance is measured based on segment profit (loss) which excludes certain non-operational items including acquisition-related expenses, certain impairments and restructuring charges. Vistaprint In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 Reported Revenue $ 1,462,686 $ 1,310,975 $ 1,220,751 12% 7% Segment Profit 241,479 167,687 214,947 44% (22)% % of revenue 17 % 13 % 18 % Segment Revenue 37 Vistaprint's reported revenue growth for the year ended June 30, 2018 was positively affected by currency impacts of 3% , resulting in constant-currency growth of 9% . The Vistaprint constant-currency growth was due to continued growth in repeat customer bookings and was positively impacted by strategic initiatives, including new product and service introductions. Vistaprint's reported revenue growth for the year ended June 30, 2017 of 7% was negatively affected by currency impacts of 2% , resulting in constant-currency growth of 9% . The Vistaprint constant-currency growth was due to growth in both repeat customers and new customer bookings. Performance continued to be stronger in the North America and Australian markets with improving results in certain European markets. In addition, some of our customer value proposition efforts, including our continued roll-out of shipping price reductions, created revenue headwinds in certain markets, including France, Germany, the Netherlands, United Kingdom and the United States, but we expect these investments will attract higher-value customers and improve customer loyalty in future periods. Segment Profitability Vistaprint's segment profit increased for the year ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the prior period, driven primarily by operating expense savings as a result of recent reorganization initiatives and incremental profit from revenue growth. In the current period, Vistaprint's segment profit was positively impacted by currency movements. Our investments in new products and services positively impacted revenue but have had a more limited benefit to segment profit as we continue to scale and optimize these new offerings. Vistaprint's segment profit decreased for the year ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the prior period, primarily due to the roll-out of planned investments including shipping price reductions, expanded design services and new product production that had negatively impacted gross profit. While these investments reduced profitability in fiscal 2017, we expect these investments will attract higher-value customers and improve customer loyalty in future periods. The increases in planned investments were partially offset by operating expense efficiencies and incremental profits from revenue growth. Upload and Print In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 Reported Revenue $ 730,010 $ 588,613 $ 432,638 24% 36% Segment Profit 79,310 63,189 58,207 26% 9% % of revenue 11 % 11 % 13 % Segment Revenue Upload and Print's reported revenue growth for the year ended June 30, 2018 was positively affected by currency impacts of 11% , resulting in constant-currency growth of 13% . During fiscal 2018, we owned all of our Upload and Print businesses for the full comparable period, so all businesses are included in the constant-currency growth rate. The Upload and Print constant-currency revenue growth was primarily driven by continued growth from our Exagroup, Pixartprinting, Printdeal and WIRmachenDRUCK businesses. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, some of our businesses experienced increased price-focused competition in certain markets and products. We believe that we are well positioned for long-term success in the European market and that our geographic diversity, profitability and scale would enable us to reduce prices in the near term, if and when appropriate, to address any price-focused competition. Any such price reductions could create fluctuations in growth and, sometimes, profit; however we believe we remain poised to outperform and outlast these competitors in the long term. Upload and Print's reported revenue growth for the year ended June 30, 2017 of 36% was primarily due to the addition of revenue from our fiscal 2016 acquisition of WIRmachenDRUCK. The reported revenue growth was negatively impacted by currency impacts of 3% . The segment's constant-currency revenue growth excluding revenue from businesses acquired in fiscal 2017 was 13% , primarily driven by continued growth from our Pixartprinting, Printdeal and Exagroup businesses. Our growth in constant currency revenue excluding recent acquisitions moderated as we passed the acquisition anniversary of some of the slower-growing acquisitions, and we also saw moderation in the growth rates of businesses acquired during prior years. 38 Segment Profitability Upload and Print's segment profit for the year ended June 30, 2018 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to incremental gross profits driven by the revenue growth described above and operating expense efficiencies in several businesses. Segment profit was also influenced by lower investments due in part to prior year investments related to certain technology enhancements and improved connection points to the mass customization platform. Upload and Print segment profit was positively impacted by currency movements. Upload and Print segment profitability for the year ended June 30, 2017 increased compared to the prior year primarily due our acquisition of WIRmachenDRUCK, which did not have a full comparable fiscal year in 2016. This increase was partially offset by a decline in the profitability of our Tradeprint business, as well as continued investments in oversight, technology and marketing. National Pen In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 Reported Revenue $ 333,266 $ 112,712 n/a 196% n/a Segment Profit (Loss) 22,165 (2,225 ) n/a 1,096% n/a % of revenue 7 % (2 )% n/a Segment Revenue National Pen's reported revenue growth for the year ended June 30, 2018 was positively affected by currency impacts of 6% , resulting in constant-currency revenue growth of 190% . Fiscal 2017 included only a partial year of National Pen results due to the timing of the acquisition. The constant-currency revenue growth, excluding the impacts of quarters with no comparable results, was 25% and driven by increases across channels and geographies, as we have seen improved marketing performance, increased marketing and prospecting activities, and increased sales to other Cimpress businesses. We expect revenue growth in future periods will moderate from the recent high-growth trend, which was influenced by easier comparisons versus the year-ago period during which National Pen had reduced marketing investments and therefore had lower revenue. For the year ended June 30, 2017, our reported revenue was $112.7 million . As we acquired National Pen on December 30, 2016, there are no comparative operating results presented for fiscal 2016. Segment Profitability Segment profit increased $24.4 million for the year ended June 30, 2018 as fiscal 2017 included only a partial period of results, as well as the revenue growth described above and cost savings from post-acquisition synergies. These increases were partially offset by increased customer prospecting activities, as well as planned technology investments. Due to our adoption of the new revenue standard on July 1, 2018, we will no longer capitalize and amortize direct-response advertising costs, which is expected to create volatility in our profitability results as costs will be expensed earlier, as incurred. For the year ended June 30, 2017, our adjusted net operating loss was $2.2 million . As we acquired National Pen on December 30, 2016, there are no comparative operating results presented for fiscal 2016. All Other Businesses In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 2018 vs. 2017 2017 vs. 2016 Reported Revenue $ 87,583 $ 128,795 $ 138,244 (32)% (7)% Segment Loss (34,620 ) (31,307 ) (9,328 ) (11)% (236)% % of revenue (40 )% (24 )% (7 )% This segment consists of multiple small, rapidly evolving early-stage businesses by which Cimpress is expanding to new markets. These businesses are subject to high degrees of risk and we expect that each of their business models will rapidly evolve in function of future trials and entrepreneurial pivoting. Therefore, in all of these 39 businesses we continue to operate at a significant operating loss as previously described and as planned, and we expect to continue to do so in the next several years. Our All Other Businesses segment also includes Albumprinter results through the divestiture date of August 31, 2017. Segment Revenue The All Other Businesses segment revenue decline was caused by the divestiture of our Albumprinter business, which was completed on August 31, 2017. Constant-currency growth, excluding the impact of the Albumprinter business, was 40% for the year ended June 30, 2018 driven by continued growth in the remaining businesses in the segment. The All Other Businesses revenue decline for the year ended June 30, 2017 was due to the termination of certain partner contracts in both our Vistaprint Corporate Solutions and Albumprinter businesses. These declines were partially offset by growth in Albumprinter's direct to consumer business and Vistaprint Corporate Solutions' new lines of business, as well as growth in our remaining businesses in the segment that continued to grow off a relatively small base. Segment Profitability The segment loss increased by $3.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2018 , as compared to the prior period, primarily due to our first quarter fiscal 2018 divestiture of our Albumprinter business, as well as additional investments in our Vistaprint Corporate Solutions business. The increase to segment loss was offset by volume absorption and advertising spend efficiencies in the other businesses in this segment. The increase in segment loss for the year ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the prior period is primarily due to the reduction in partner related profits of $17.8 million , as well as increased investment in each of our businesses, partially offset by growth in the direct to consumer part of the Albumprinter business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Data: In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 192,332 $ 156,736 $ 247,358 Net cash used in investing activities (10,594 ) (301,789 ) (265,538 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (177,757 ) 104,578 (5,338 ) At June 30, 2018 , we had $44.2 million of cash and cash equivalents and $839.4 million of debt, excluding debt issuance costs and debt discounts. We expect cash and cash equivalents and debt levels to fluctuate over time depending on our working capital needs, our organic investment levels, share repurchases and acquisition activity. The cash flows during the year ended June 30, 2018 related primarily to the following items: Cash inflows: Net income of $46.8 million Adjustments for non-cash items of $168.2 million primarily related to positive adjustments for depreciation and amortization of $169.0 million , share-based compensation costs of $50.5 million , unrealized currency-related losses of $3.9 million , and the change of our contingent earn-out liability of $1.8 million partially offset by negative adjustments for our gain on the sale of our Albumprinter business of $47.5 million and non-cash tax related items of $14.0 million Proceeds from the sale of our Albumprinter business of $93.8 million , net of transaction costs Proceeds from the sale of a noncontrolling interest related to our WIRmachenDRUCK business of $35.4 million 40 Proceeds from the issuance of ordinary shares from the exercise of share options of $12.0 million Excluding the impact of the earn-out and restructuring payments described in the cash outflows section below, the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a source of cash during the period. Cash outflows: Purchases of our ordinary shares of $94.7 million Capital expenditures of $60.9 million of which the majority of these assets were related to the purchase of manufacturing and automation equipment for our production facilities, and computer and office equipment Payments of acquisition-related earn-outs of $51.3 million , primarily for our WIRmachenDRUCK acquisition. The portion of the earn-out payment contingent upon employment, as well as the contingent consideration payment in excess of acquisition date fair value, is $49.2 million and presented within operating activities. The remaining $2.1 million cash outflow representing the purchase consideration included in the acquisition date fair value is a financing activity. Payments of debt and debt issuance costs of $54.4 million , net of proceeds Internal costs for software and website development that we have capitalized of $40.8 million Issuance of loans of $21.0 million to two equity holders of our Printi business (refer to Note 15 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional details) Payments of withholding taxes in connection with share awards of $19.7 million Payments for capital lease arrangements of $17.6 million Payments related to our recent restructuring actions was $17.3 million Payment of an early redemption premium of $14.4 million , related to the refinancing of our senior unsecured notes Additional Liquidity and Capital Resources Information. During the year ended June 30, 2018 , we financed our operations and strategic investments through internally generated cash flows from operations and debt financing. As of June 30, 2018 , a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our subsidiaries, and undistributed earnings of our subsidiaries that are considered to be indefinitely reinvested were $29.4 million . We do not intend to repatriate these funds as the cash and cash equivalent balances are generally used and available, without legal restrictions, to fund ordinary business operations and investments of the respective subsidiaries. If there is a change in the future, the repatriation of undistributed earnings from certain subsidiaries, in the form of dividends or otherwise, could have tax consequences that could result in material cash outflows. Debt. On June 15, 2018, we completed a debt offering of $400.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.0% senior notes due 2026. We used a portion of the net proceeds of this offering to redeem the $275.0 million of senior notes due 2022 and fund the satisfaction of the indenture governing those notes. We used the remaining portion of the net proceeds to repay indebtedness outstanding under the credit facility and fund the payment of all related fees and expenses. Refer to Note 10 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional details. In conjunction with the senior notes offering described above, we executed an amendment to our senior secured credit facility that expanded the total capacity from $1,045.0 million to $1,128.2 million . The amendment made changes to the senior secured credit agreement, including: The aggregate revolving loan commitments under the agreement were increased from $745.0 million to $839.4 million . The capacity of term loans remained unchanged, of which $285.0 million remained outstanding as of June 30, 2018. 41 The amendment extended the maturity date of all loans under the agreement from July 13, 2022 to June 14, 2023. The interest rate at which LIBOR borrowings bear interest was lowered from LIBOR plus 1.50% to 2.25% to LIBOR plus 1.375% to 2.0%, depending on our leverage ratio, which is the ratio of our consolidated total indebtedness to our consolidated trailing twelve-month EBITDA. Our maximum leverage ratio under the agreement was increased from 4.50 to 4.75, and we may increase our leverage ratio to up to 5.00 (4.75 allowed before the amendment) for up to four consecutive fiscal quarters after certain corporate acquisitions as defined within the agreement. The amendment decreased the maximum commitment fee paid on unused balances from 0.40% to 0.35%, depending upon our leverage ratio. We expect to use our expanded credit facility to fund investments and working capital needs. Refer to Note 10 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional details. As of June 30, 2018 , we had aggregate loan commitments from our senior secured credit facility totaling $1,124.4 million . The loan commitments consisted of revolving loans of $839.4 million and term loans of $285.0 million . We have other financial obligations that constitute additional indebtedness based on the definitions within the credit facility. As of June 30, 2018 , the amount available for borrowing under our senior secured credit facility was as follows: In thousands June 30, 2018 Maximum aggregate available for borrowing $ 1,124,422 Outstanding borrowings of senior secured credit facilities (432,414 ) Remaining amount 692,008 Limitations to borrowing due to debt covenants and other obligations (1) (124,467 ) Amount available for borrowing as of June 30, 2018 (2) $ 567,541 _________________ (1) The debt covenants of our senior secured credit facility limit our borrowing capacity each quarter, depending on our leverage and other indebtedness, such as notes, capital leases, letters of credit, and any other debt, as well as other factors that are outlined in the credit agreement. (2) Share purchases, dividend payments, and corporate acquisitions are subject to more restrictive covenants, and therefore we may not be able to use the full amount available for borrowing for these purposes. Debt Covenants . Our credit agreement and senior unsecured notes indenture contain financial and other covenants as well as customary representations, warranties and events of default, which are detailed in Note 10 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As of June 30, 2018 , we were in compliance with all financial and other covenants under the credit agreement and senior unsecured notes indenture. Other debt. Other debt primarily consists of term loans acquired through our various acquisitions. As of June 30, 2018 we had $7.0 million outstanding for other debt payable through September 2024. Our expectations for fiscal year 2019. We believe that our available cash, cash flows generated from operations, and cash available under our committed debt financing will be sufficient to satisfy our liabilities and planned investments to support our long-term growth strategy. We endeavor to invest large amounts of capital that we believe will generate returns that are above, or well above, our weighted average cost of capital. We consider any use of cash that we expect to require more than twelve months to return our invested capital to be an allocation of capital. For fiscal 2019, we expect to have opportunities to allocate capital to the following broad categories and consider our capital to be fungible across all of these categories: Organic investments will continue to be made across a wide spectrum of activities. These range from large, discrete projects that we believe can provide us with materially important competitive capabilities and/or market positions over the longer term to smaller investments intended to maintain or improve our competitive position and support value-creating revenue growth. Purchases of our ordinary shares 42 Corporate acquisitions and similar investments Reduction of debt Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations at June 30, 2018 are as follows: In thousands Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating leases, net of subleases $ 76,838 $ 22,623 $ 31,705 $ 14,808 $ 7,702 Build-to-suit lease 96,680 12,569 25,138 23,357 35,616 Purchase commitments 57,291 29,161 28,130 Senior unsecured notes and interest payments 624,000 29,167 56,000 56,000 482,833 Other debt and interest payments 550,068 78,522 101,724 368,540 1,282 Capital leases 27,596 10,850 11,563 2,895 2,288 Other 5,559 2,761 2,473 325 Total (1) $ 1,438,032 $ 185,653 $ 256,733 $ 465,925 $ 529,721 ___________________ (1) We may be required to make cash outlays related to our uncertain tax positions. However, due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with our uncertain tax positions, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. Accordingly, uncertain tax positions of $4.9 million as of June 30, 2018 have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. For further information on uncertain tax positions, see Note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Operating Leases. We rent office space under operating leases expiring on various dates through 2026. Future minimum rental payments required under our leases are an aggregate of approximately $76.8 million . The terms of certain lease agreements require security deposits in the form of bank guarantees and letters of credit in the amount of $2.6 million . Build-to-suit lease. Represents the cash payments for our leased facility in Waltham, Massachusetts, USA. Please refer to Note 2 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional details . Purchase Commitments . At June 30, 2018 , we had unrecorded commitments under contract of $57.3 million . Purchase commitments consisted of third-party web services of $21.0 million , inventory purchase commitments of $8.4 million , production and computer equipment purchases of approximately $8.2 million , commitments for professional and consulting fees of $3.6 million , commitments for advertising campaigns of $2.2 million , and other unrecorded purchase commitments of $14.0 million . Senior unsecured notes and interest payments. Our 7.0% senior unsecured notes due 2026 bear interest at a rate of 7.0% per annum and mature on June 15, 2026. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year and has been included in the table above. Other debt and interest payments. At June 30, 2018 , the term loans of $285.0 million outstanding under our credit agreement have repayments due on various dates through June 14, 2023, with the revolving loans outstanding of $147.4 million due on June 14, 2023. Interest payable included in this table is based on the interest rate as of June 30, 2018 and assumes all LIBOR based revolving loan amounts outstanding will not be paid until maturity, but that the term loan amortization payments will be made according to our defined schedule and all Prime rate based revolving loan amounts will be paid within a year. Interest payable includes the estimated impact of our interest rate swap agreements. In addition, we have other debt which consists primarily of debt assumed as part of certain of our fiscal 2015 acquisitions, and as of June 30, 2018 we had $7.0 million outstanding for those obligations that have repayments due on various dates through September 2024. 43 Capital leases. We lease certain machinery and plant equipment under capital lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2022. The aggregate carrying value of the leased equipment under capital leases included in property, plant and equipment, net in our consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2018 , is $31.0 million , net of accumulated depreciation of $36.7 million . The present value of lease installments not yet due included in other current liabilities and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2018 amounts to $27.6 million . Other Obligations . Other obligations include deferred payments related to previous acquisitions of $3.5 million in the aggregate. We also have an installment obligation of $2.1 million related to the fiscal 2012 intra-entity transfer of the intellectual property of our subsidiary Webs, Inc., which resulted in tax being paid over a 7.5 year term and has been classified as a deferred tax liability in our consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2018 . Additional Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted net operating profit (NOP) and free cash flow presented below, and constant-currency revenue growth and constant-currency revenue growth excluding acquisitions/divestitures presented on page 7 above, are supplemental measures of our performance that are not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. Adjusted NOP is defined as GAAP operating income excluding certain items such as acquisition-related amortization and depreciation, expense recognized for earn-out related charges, including the change in fair value of contingent consideration and compensation expense related to cash-based earn-out mechanisms dependent upon continued employment, share-based compensation related to investment consideration, certain impairment expense, restructuring charges, and the gain on purchase or sale of subsidiaries. The interest expense associated with our Waltham lease, as well as realized gains (losses) on currency forward contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting, are included in Adjusted NOP. Adjusted NOP is the primary profitability metric by which we measure our consolidated financial performance and is provided to enhance investors' understanding of our current operating results from the underlying and ongoing business for the same reasons it is used by management. For example, as we have become more acquisitive over recent years we believe excluding the costs related to the purchase of a business (such as amortization of acquired intangible assets, contingent consideration, or impairment of goodwill) provides further insight into the performance of the underlying acquired business in addition to that provided by our GAAP operating income. As another example, as we do not apply hedge accounting for our currency forward contracts, we believe inclusion of realized gains and losses on these contracts that are intended to be matched against operational currency fluctuations provides further insight into our operating performance in addition to that provided by our GAAP operating income. We do not, nor do we suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Free cash flow is used by management to assess the cash flow generation of the company. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment, purchases of intangible assets not related to acquisitions, and capitalization of software and website development costs, plus payment of contingent consideration in excess of acquisition-date fair value and gains on proceeds from insurance, if any. The primary financial metric by which we set quarterly and annual budgets both for individual businesses and Cimpress-wide is our free cash flow prior to cash interest costs. 44 The table below sets forth operating income and adjusted net operating profit for the years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016 : In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 GAAP operating income (loss) $ 157,800 $ (45,702 ) $ 78,193 Exclude expense (benefit) impact of: Acquisition-related amortization and depreciation 50,149 46,402 40,834 Earn-out related charges (1) 2,391 40,384 6,378 Share-based compensation related to investment consideration 6,792 9,638 4,835 Certain impairments (2) 9,556 41,820 Restructuring related charges 15,236 26,700 381 Less: Interest expense associated with Waltham, MA lease (7,489 ) (7,727 ) (6,287 ) Less: Gains on the purchase or sale of subsidiaries (3) (47,945 ) Include: Realized (losses) gains on certain currency derivatives not included in operating income (loss) (11,445 ) 16,474 5,863 Adjusted NOP $ 165,489 $ 95,725 $ 172,017 _________________ (1) Includes expense recognized for the change in fair value of contingent consideration and compensation expense related to cash-based earn-out mechanisms dependent upon continued employment. (2) Includes the impact of certain impairments of goodwill and other long-lived assets as defined by ASC 350 - "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other". (3) Includes the impact of the gain on the sale of Albumprinter, as well as a bargain purchase gain as defined by ASC 805-30 - "Goodwill or Gain from Bargain Purchase" for an acquisition in which the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are greater than the consideration transferred, that was recognized in general and administrative expense in our consolidated statement of operations during the year ended June 30, 2018 . The table below sets forth net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow for the years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016: In thousands Year Ended June 30, 2018 2017 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 192,332 $ 156,736 $ 247,358 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (60,930 ) (74,157 ) (80,435 ) Purchases of intangible assets not related to acquisitions (308 ) (197 ) (476 ) Capitalization of software and website development costs (40,847 ) (37,307 ) (26,324 ) Payment of contingent consideration in excess of acquisition-date fair value (1) 49,241 8,613 Proceeds from insurance related to investing activities 3,624 Free cash flow $ 139,488 $ 45,075 $ 152,360 _________________ (1) Includes a portion of the earn-out payment that is presented within net cash provided by operating activities as part of the change in accrued expenses and other liabilities. This portion of the earn-out was deemed to be a compensation arrangement since it included an employment-related contingency. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). To apply these principles, we must make estimates and judgments that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In some instances, we reasonably could have used different accounting estimates and, in other instances, changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates and judgments of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss further below. This section should be read in 45 conjunction with Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report. Revenue Recognition. Our businesses generate revenue primarily from the sale and shipping of customized manufactured products, as well as providing digital services, website design and hosting, email marketing services, and order referral fees. We recognize revenue arising from sales of products and services, net of discounts and applicable indirect taxes, when it is realized or realizable and earned. We consider revenue realized or realizable and earned when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a product has been shipped or service rendered with no significant post-delivery obligation on our part, the net sales price is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. For arrangements with multiple deliverables, we allocate revenue to each deliverable based on the relative selling price for each deliverable. We determine the relative selling price using a hierarchy of (1) company specific objective and reliable evidence, then (2) third-party evidence, then (3) best estimate of selling price. Shipping, handling and processing charges billed to customers are included in revenue at the time of shipment or rendering of service. Revenues from sales of prepaid orders on our websites are deferred until shipment of fulfilled orders or until the prepaid service has been rendered. A reserve for estimated sales returns and allowances is recorded as a reduction of revenue, based on historical experience or specific identification of an event necessitating a reserve. This reserve is dependent upon customer return practices and will vary during the year due to volume or specific reserve requirements. Sales returns have not historically been significant to our net revenue and have been within our estimates. Share-Based Compensation. We measure share-based compensation costs at fair value, and recognize the expense over the period that the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the award, which generally is the vesting period. We recognize the impact of forfeitures as they occur. We primarily issue performance share units, or PSUs, which are estimated at fair value on the date of grant, which is fixed throughout the vesting period. The fair value is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation model. As the PSUs include both a service and market condition the related expense is recognized using the accelerated expense attribution method over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award. For PSUs that meet the service vesting condition, the expense recognized over the requisite service period will not be reversed if the market condition is not achieved. The compensation expense for these awards is estimated at fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation model and compensation costs are recorded only if it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. In addition to service vesting and market condition requirements, we have certain PSUs that contain an additional performance condition, based on a multi-year performance target. The compensation expense for these awards is estimated at fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation model and compensation costs are recorded only if it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. If we determine the awards are not probable at some point during the performance vesting period we would reverse any expense recognized to date. During fiscal 2018, we issued PSUs that contain a performance condition that we deemed probable of achievement and recognized $13,503 of expense. If the performance condition is determined to not be probable in a future period, we will reverse this expense in the period they are no longer considered probable. Income Taxes. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we calculate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our current tax expense, including assessing the risks associated with tax positions, together with assessing temporary and permanent differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and financial reporting purposes. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the temporary differences using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect temporary differences to reverse. We assess the ability to realize our deferred tax assets based upon the weight of available evidence both positive and negative. To the extent we believe that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance. Our estimates can vary due to the profitability mix of jurisdictions, foreign exchange movements, changes in tax law, regulations or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. In the event that actual results differ from our estimates or we adjust our estimates in the future, we may need to increase or decrease income tax expense, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. 46 We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are in accordance with applicable tax laws. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, new tax legislation, or the change of an estimate based on new information. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Interest and, if applicable, penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in the provision for income taxes. Stranded income tax effects in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss are released on an item-by-item basis based on when the applicable derivative is recognized in earnings. Software and Website Development Costs. We capitalize eligible salaries and payroll-related costs of employees who devote time to the development of our websites and internal-use computer software. Capitalization begins when the preliminary project stage is complete, management with the relevant authority authorizes and commits to the funding of the software project, and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. These costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the software, which is three years. Our judgment is required in determining whether a project provides new or additional functionality, the point at which various projects enter the stages at which costs may be capitalized, assessing the ongoing value and impairment of the capitalized costs, and determining the estimated useful lives over which the costs are amortized. Historically we have not had any significant impairments of our capitalized software and website development costs. Business Combinations. We recognize the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on detailed cash flow valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management. The valuations are dependent upon a myriad of factors including historical financial results, estimated customer renewal rates, projected operating costs and discount rates. We estimate the fair value of contingent consideration at the time of the acquisition using all pertinent information known to us at the time to assess the probability of payment of contingent amounts or through the use of a Monte Carlo simulation model. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to goodwill. The assumptions used in the valuations for our acquisitions may differ materially from actual results depending on performance of the acquired businesses and other factors. While we believe the assumptions used were appropriate, different assumptions in the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed could have a material impact on the timing and extent of impact on our statements of operations. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units as of the date of the related acquisition. If goodwill is assigned to more than one reporting unit, we utilize a method that is consistent with the manner in which the amount of goodwill in a business combination is determined. Costs related to the acquisition of a business are expensed as incurred. Goodwill, Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets, and Other Definite Lived Long-Lived Assets. We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. We consider the timing of our most recent fair value assessment and associated headroom, the actual operating results as compared to the cash flow forecasts used in those fair value assessments, the current long-term forecasts for each reporting unit, and the general market and economic environment of each reporting unit. In addition to the specific factors mentioned above, we assess the following individual factors on an ongoing basis such as: A significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate; An adverse action or assessment by a regulator; Unanticipated competition; A loss of key personnel; and A more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of. 47 If the results of the qualitative analysis were to indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the quantitative test is required. Under the quantitative approach, we estimate the fair values of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgment and is based on our strategic plans and estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts. Our annual analysis also requires significant judgment including the identification and aggregation of reporting units, as well as the determination of our discount rate and perpetual growth rate assumptions. We are required to compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value and recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value. We are required to evaluate the estimated useful lives and recoverability of definite lived long-lived assets (for example, customer relationships, developed technology, property, and equipment) on an ongoing basis when indicators of impairment are present. For purposes of the recoverability test, long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. The test for recoverability compares the undiscounted future cash flows of the long-lived asset group to its carrying value. If the carrying values of the long-lived asset group exceed the undiscounted future cash flows, the assets are considered to be potentially impaired. The next step in the impairment measurement process is to determine the fair value of the individual net assets within the long-lived asset group. If the aggregate fair values of the individual net assets of the group are less than the carrying values, an impairment charge is recorded equal to the excess of the aggregate carrying value of the group over the aggregate fair value. The loss is allocated to each long-lived asset within the group based on their relative carrying values, with no asset reduced below its fair value. The identification and evaluation of a potential impairment requires judgment and is subject to change if events or circumstances pertaining to our business change. We evaluated our long-lived assets for impairment and during the year ended June 30, 2018, we recognized no impairments. Recently Issued or Adopted Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8 of Part II, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Recently Issued or Adopted Accounting Pronouncements." 48