Managements Discussion and Analysis, and the financial statements and notes thereto included in the Companys Form 10-KA for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. Emerging Growth Company The Company is an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act), and it may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in its periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. The Company has elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, the Company, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of the Companys financial statements with another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the Companys management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Making estimates requires management to exercise significant judgment. It is at least reasonably possible that the estimate of the effect of a condition, situation or set of circumstances that existed at the date of the financial statements, which management considered in formulating its estimate, could change in the near term due to one or more future confirming events. Accordingly, the actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. 11 Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Cont.) Cash and cash equivalents The Company considers all short-term investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. The Company did not have any cash equivalents as of June 30, 2021 or December 31, 2020. Investment Held in Trust Account Investment held in Trust Account consist of United States Treasury securities with a maturity of 180 days or less. The Company classifies its United States Treasury securities as held-to-maturity in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 320 Investments - Debt and Equity Securities. Held-to-maturity securities are those securities which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity. Held-to-maturity treasury securities are recorded at amortized cost and adjusted for the amortization or accretion of premiums or discounts. A decline in the market value of held-to-maturity securities below cost that is deemed to be other than temporary, results in an impairment that reduces the carrying costs to such securities fair value. The impairment is charged to earnings and a new cost basis for the security is established. To determine whether an impairment is other than temporary, the Company considers whether it has the ability and intent to hold the investment until a market price recovery and considers whether evidence indicating the cost of the investment is recoverable outweighs evidence to the contrary. Evidence considered in this assessment includes the reasons for the impairment, the severity and the duration of the impairment, changes in value subsequent to year-end, forecasted performance of the investee, and the general market condition in the geographic area or industry the investee operates in. Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted over the life of the related held-to-maturity security as an adjustment to yield using the effective-interest method. Such amortization and accretion is included in the interest income line item in the consolidated statement of operations. Interest income is recognized when earned. Fair Value Measurements (Restated) FASB ASC Topic 820 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (ASC 820) defines fair value, the methods used to measure fair value and the expanded disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between the buyer and the seller at the measurement date. In determining fair value, the valuation techniques consistent with the market approach, income approach and cost approach shall be used to measure fair value. ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy for inputs, which represent the assumptions used by the buyer and seller in pricing the asset or liability. These inputs are further defined as observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs are those that buyer and seller would use in pricing the asset or liability based on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable inputs reflect the Companys assumptions about the inputs that the buyer and seller would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The fair value hierarchy is categorized into three levels based on the inputs as follows: Level 1 Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access. Valuation adjustments and block discounts are not being applied. Since valuations are based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market, valuation of these securities does not entail a significant degree of judgment. Level 2 Valuations based on (i) quoted prices in active markets for similar assets and liabilities, (ii) quoted prices in markets that are not active for identical or similar assets, (iii) inputs other than quoted prices for the assets or liabilities, or (iv) inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by market through correlation or other means. Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. 12 Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Cont.) The fair value of the Companys certain assets and liabilities, which qualify as financial instruments under ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, approximates the carrying amounts represented in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2021 and the balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, prepaid assets, accounts payable and accrued expenses are estimated to approximate the carrying values as of June 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020 due to the short maturities of such instruments. Fair Value Measured as of June 30, 2021 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets: U.S. Money Market held in Trust Account $ 170,032,591 $ - $ - $ 170,032,591 $ 170,032,591 $ - $ - $ 170,032,591 Fair Value Measured as of June 30, 2021 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Liabilities: Private stock warrant liabilities $ - $ - $ 199,402 $ 199,402 $ - $ - $ 199,402 $ 199,402 Fair Value Measured as of December 31, 2020 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets: U.S. Money Market held in Trust Account $ 203 $ - $ - $ 203 U.S. Treasury Securities held in Trust Account 170,027,139 - - 170,027,139 $ 170,027,342 $ - $ - $ 170,027,342 Liabilities: Private stock warrant liabilities $ - $ - $ 123,070 $ 123,070 $ - $ - $ 123,070 $ 123,070 The Private Warrants are accounted for as liabilities pursuant to ASC 815-40 and are measured at fair value as of each reporting period. Changes in the fair value of the Private Warrants are recorded in the statement of operations each period. 13 Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Cont.) As of June 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020 the estimated fair value of the Private Warrants was determined using a Black Sholes valuation model using Level 3 inputs. Significant inputs to the valuation are as follows: As of December 31, 2020 As of June 30 2021 Exercise price $ 11.50 $ 11.50 Stock price 9.95 9.95 Volatility 18.40 % 23.8 % Probability of completing a business combination 88.30 % 90 % Term 5.42 5.17 Risk-free rate 0.42 % 0.90 % Dividend yield 0.00 % 0.00 % The following table presents a summary of the changes in the fair value of the Private Warrants, a Level 3 liability, measured on a recurring basis. Warrant liabilities at January 1, 2021 $ 123,070 Change in fair value of warrant liabilities 110,872 Warrant liabilities at March 31, 2021 $ 233,942 Change in fair value of warrant liabilities ( 34,540 ) Warrant liabilities at June 30, 2021 $ 199,402 The non-cash loss on revaluation of the Private Warrants is included in change in warrant liability on the statement of operations. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist of a cash account in a financial institution, which, at times, may exceed the Federal Depository Insurance Coverage of $ 250,000 . At June 30, 2021, the Company has not experienced losses on this account and management believes the Company is not exposed to significant risks on such account. Derivative warrant liabilities The Company does not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. The Company evaluates all of its financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives. The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. The 114,000 Private Placement Warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. Accordingly, the Company recognizes the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjust the instruments to fair value at each reporting period. The liabilities are subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in the Companys statement of operations. The fair value of warrants issued in connection with our private placement was initially and subsequently remeasured at fair value using the Black Sholes method. 14 Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Cont.) Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption The Company accounts for common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity . Common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock are classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at June 30, 2021, 17,000,000 shares of common stock subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our balance sheet. Offering Costs The Company complies with the requirements of the ASC 340-10-S99-1 and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) Topic 5A - Expenses of Offering. Offering costs consist principally of professional and registration fees incurred through the consolidated balance sheet date that are related to the IPO and were charged to stockholders equity upon the completion of the IPO. Accordingly, as of June 30, 2021, offering costs in the aggregate of $ 870,120 have been charged to stockholders equity (consisting of $ 450,000 in underwriters discount and approximately $ 420,120 of other cash expenses). Income Taxes The Company follows the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes under ASC 740, Income Taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statements carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that included the enactment date. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. ASC 740 prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. There were no unrecognized tax benefits and no amounts accrued for interest and penalties as of September 30, 2020. The Company is currently not aware of any issues under review that could result in significant payments, accruals or material deviation from its position. The Company is subject to income tax examinations by major taxing authorities since inception. The provision for income taxes was deemed to be immaterial for the six month period ended June 30, 2021 and for the period from June 24, 2020 (inception) to December 31, 2020. Net Loss Per Common Share Net loss per share is computed by dividing loss by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period, excluding shares of common stock subject to forfeiture. The Company has not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and private placement to purchase shares in the calculation of diluted loss per share, since the exercise of the warrants are contingent upon the occurrence of future events and the inclusion of such warrants would be anti-dilutive. 15 Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Cont.) The Companys statements of operations include a presentation of net loss per share for common shares subject to possible redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of net loss per share. Net loss per common share, basic and diluted, for Common stock subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the proportionate share of loss on marketable securities held by the trust account, net of applicable franchise, by the weighted average number of Common stock subject to possible redemption outstanding since original issuance. Net loss per share, basic and diluted, for non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the net loss, adjusted for loss on marketable securities attributable to Common stock subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of non-redeemable common stock outstanding for the period. Non-redeemable common stock includes Founder Shares and non-redeemable shares of common stock as these shares do not have any redemption features. Non-redeemable common stock participates in the loss on marketable securities based on non-redeemable shares proportionate interest. The following table reflects the calculation of basic and diluted net loss per common share: For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 Common stock subject to possible redemption Numerator: Earnings allocable to Common stock subject to possible redemption Income from investments held in Trust Account $ 49,769 $ 12,113 Less: income from investments held in Trust Account used to pay for income taxes and franchise taxes $ ( 79,151 ) $ ( 39,575 ) Net loss attributable to Common stock subject to possible redemption $ ( 29,382 ) $ ( 27,462 ) Denominator: Weighted average common stock subject to possible redemption Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding 16,818,439 17,000,000 Basic and diluted net loss per share, common stock subject to possible redemption $ ( 0.00 ) $ ( 0.00 ) Non-Redeemable Common Stock Numerator: Net loss minus amount allocable to redeemable common stock and change in fair value Net loss $ ( 2,058,982 ) $ ( 1,043,472 ) Less: Net loss allocable to common stock subject to possible redemption 29,382 27,462 Non-redeemable net loss $ ( 2,029,600 ) $ ( 1,016,009 ) Denominator: Weighted Average Non-Redeemable Common Stock Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding, Non-redeemable common stock 4,659,492 4,478,000 Basic and diluted net loss per share, non-redeemable common stock $ ( 0.44 ) $ ( 0.23 ) Good Works Acquisition Corp. was formed on June 24, 2020. The Founders Shares were not issued until July 2020. As a result, a comparative calculation of net income per share for the period ending June 2020 is not applicable. See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. 16 Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Cont.) Recent Accounting Pronouncements Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the Companys financial statements. Note 3 Initial Public Offering Pursuant to the IPO on October 22, 2020, the Company sold 15,000,000 Units at a price of $ 10.00 per Unit. Each Unit consists of one share of common stock and one-half of one warrant (Public Warrant). Each whole Public Warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of common stock at a price of $ 11.50 per share, subject to adjustment. The underwriters were granted a 45-day option from the date of the prospectus (the Over-Allotment Option) to purchase up to 2,250,000 additional units to cover over-allotments (the Over-Allotment Units), if any. On October 26, 2020, the underwriters partially exercised the over-allotment option by purchasing 1,500,000 Units (the Over-Allotment Units), and on November 17, 2020, the underwriters exercised a final over-allotment option and purchased an additional 500,000 Over-Allotment Units, generating aggregate of gross proceeds of $ 20,000,000 . Upon closing of the IPO and the sale of the Over-Allotment Units, a total of $ 170,000,000 ($ 10.00 per Unit) has been placed in a U.S.-based trust account, with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee. Note 4 Private Placement On October 22, 2020, simultaneously with the closing of the Public Offering, the Anchor Investors purchased an aggregate of 228,000 Private Units at a price of $ 10.00 per Private Unit, for an aggregate purchase price of $ 2,280,000 , in a private placement that occurred simultaneously with the closing of the Public Offering. Each Private Unit consists of one share of common stock (Private Share) and one-half of one warrant (Private Warrant). Each whole Private Warrant is exercisable to purchase one share of common stock at an exercise price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment. The proceeds from the Private Units were added to the proceeds from the Public Offering to be held in the Trust Account. If the Company does not complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period, the proceeds from the sale of the Private Units will be used to fund the redemption of the Public Shares (subject to the requirements of applicable law). Note 5 Related Party Transactions Founder Shares In July 2020, Sponsor, and our officers and directors (collectively, the Founders) purchased an aggregate of 4,312,500 shares (the Founder Shares) of the Companys common stock for an aggregate price of $ 25,000 . In August 2020, certain of our initial stockholders forfeited 1,355,000 Founder Shares and the Anchor Investors purchased 1,355,000 Founder Shares for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $ 7,855 , or approximately $ 0.006 per share. In October 2020, Sponsor forfeited an aggregate of 562,500 founder shares for no consideration, and GW Sponsor 2, LLC, an entity managed by Management, purchased from the Company 562,500 shares for a purchase price of $ 163,125 . The Founder Shares include an aggregate of up to 562,500 shares subject to forfeiture by Sponsor to the extent that the underwriters over-allotment is not exercised in full or in part, so that the Founders and Anchor Investors will collectively own 20 % of the Companys issued and outstanding shares after the Public Offering (assuming the Founders or Anchor Investors do not purchase any Public Shares in the Public Offering). On November 17, 2020, the underwriters canceled the remainder of the Over-Allotment Option. In connection with the cancellation of the remainder of the Over-Allotment Option, the Company cancelled an aggregate of 62,500 shares of common stock issued to Sponsor. 17 Note 5 Related Party Transactions (Cont.) Of the Founder Shares, several of the Founders were holding an aggregate of 750,000 shares which they had agreed to contribute to a not-for-profit organization that is mutually acceptable to them and the Companys board of directors within six months after the Public Offering or such shares will be forfeited and cancelled. In February 2021, all of the 750,000 shares were transferred to not-for-profit organizations that were approved by the board of directors. The Founders (including the not-for-profit transferees) and Anchor Investor have agreed, subject to certain limited exceptions, not to transfer, assign or sell any of the Founder Shares until the earlier of earlier of (1) one year after the completion of the Business Combination and (2) the date on which the Company consummates a liquidation, merger, capital stock exchange, reorganization, or other similar transaction after the Business Combination that results in all of the Companys stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the last sale price of our common stock equals or exceeds $12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 150 days after the Business Combination, the Founder Shares will be released from the lock-up. Promissory Note Related Party In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, Sponsor and its designees may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required (Working Capital Loans). If the Company completes a Business Combination, the Company would repay the Working Capital Loans out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to the Company. Otherwise, the Working Capital Loans would be repaid only out of funds held outside the Trust Account. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, the Company may use a portion of proceeds held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans, but no proceeds held in the Trust Account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. Except for the foregoing, the terms of such Working Capital Loans, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. The Working Capital Loans would either be repaid upon consummation of a Business Combination, without interest, or, at the lenders discretion, up to $ 1,500,000 of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into Private Units of the post Business Combination entity at a price of $ 10.00 per Private Unit. The Private Units would be identical to the Private Units issued in the Private Placement. At June 30, 2021, no Working Capital Loans have been issued. Administrative Support Agreement The Company has agreed, commencing on the effective date of the Public Offering through the earlier of the Companys consummation of a Business Combination and the liquidation of the Trust Account, to pay an affiliate of one of the Companys executive officers $ 10,000 per month for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support. 18 Note 6 Investment Held in Trust Account As of June 30, 2021, investment in the Companys Trust Account consisted of $ 170,032,591 in U.S. Money Market funds and $ 0 in U.S. Treasury Securities. All of the U.S. Treasury Securities matured on April 22, 2021 . The Company classifies its United States Treasury securities as held-to-maturity in accordance with FASB ASC 320 Investments Debt and Equity Securities. Held-to-maturity treasury securities are recorded at amortized cost and adjusted for the amortization or accretion of premiums or discounts. The Company considers all investments with original maturities of more than three months but less than one year to be short-term investments. The carrying value approximates the fair value due to its short-term maturity. The carrying value, excluding gross unrealized holding loss and fair value of held to maturity securities on June 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020 are as follows: Carrying Value/Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized losses Fair Value as of December 31, 2021 U.S. Money Market $ 203 $ - $ - $ 203 U.S. Treasury Securities 170,027,139 4,916 ( 148 ) 170,031,907 $ 170,027,342 $ 4,916 $ ( 148 ) $ 170,032,110 Carrying Value/Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains T-Bill Maturity Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value as of June 30, 2021 U.S. Money Market $ 203 $ 2,908 $ 170,074,000 $ ( 44,520 ) $ 170,032,591 U.S. Treasury Securities 170,064,795 9,205 $ ( 170,074,000 ) - - $ 170,064,998 $ 12,113 $ 0 $ ( 44,520 ) $ 170,032,591 Note 7 Commitments Registration Rights The holders of the Founder Shares, as well as the holders of the Private Units and any Private Warrants or Private Units that may be issued in payment of Working Capital Loans made to the Company (and all underlying securities), are entitled to registration rights pursuant to an agreement that was signed on the effective date of Public Offering. The holders of a majority of these securities are entitled to make up to two demands that the Company register such securities. The holders of the majority of the Founders Shares can elect to exercise these registration rights at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which these shares of common stock are to be released from escrow. The holders of a majority of the Founder Shares, Private Units and Private Warrants or Private Units issued in payment of Working Capital Loans (or underlying securities) can elect to exercise these registration rights at any time after the Company consummates a Business Combination. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the consummation of a Business Combination. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement The Company granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of Public Offering to purchase up to 2,250,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the Public Offering price less the underwriting discounts and commissions. On October 26, 2020, the underwriters purchased an additional 1,500,000 Over-Allotment Units pursuant to the partial exercise of the Over-Allotment Option. On November 17, 2020, the underwriters purchased an additional 500,000 Over-Allotment Units pursuant to the partial exercise of the Over-Allotment Option. The Over-Allotment Units were sold at an offering price of $ 10.00 per Over-Allotment Unit, generating aggregate additional gross proceeds of $ 20,000,000 to the Company. On November 17, 2020, the underwriters canceled the remainder of the Over-Allotment Option. The Company paid a fixed underwriting discount of $ 450,000 to the underwriters at the closing of the Public Offering. 19 Note 7 Commitments (Cont.) Business Combination Marketing Agreement The Company engaged I-Bankers Securities, Inc. as an advisor in connection with a Business Combination to assist the Company in holding meetings with its stockholders to discuss the potential Business Combination and the target business attributes, introduce the Company to potential investors that are interested in purchasing the Companys securities in connection with a Business Combination, assist the Company in obtaining stockholder approval for the Business Combination and assist the Company with its press releases and public filings in connection with the Business Combination. The Company will pay I-Bankers Securities, Inc. a cash fee for such services upon the consummation of a Business Combination in an amount equal to 4.5 % of the gross proceeds of Public Offering (exclusive of any applicable finders fees which might become payable). In connection with its proposed business combination with Cipher Mining Technologies, the Company has an agreement with the law firm representing it in the matter whereby the Company pays 60 % of the actual time charges incurred each month. If the business combination is not completed, no additional fees are payable by the Company, however if the business combination is completed, the Company will own an additional amount equal to the amounts billed (so that the aggregate amount paid would be 120 % of actual time charges). As of June 30, 2021, if the business combination had closed on that date, the Company would owe $ 321,545 in additional legal fees. Note 8 Stockholders Equity Common Stock The Company is authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock with a par value of $ 0.001 per share. At June 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively, there were 4,478,000 and 4,843,139 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, excluding 17,000,000 and 16,634,861 shares, respectively, subject to possible redemption. The holders of the Founder Shares have agreed, subject to certain limited exceptions, not to transfer, assign or sell any of the Founder Shares until the earlier of earlier of (1) one year after the completion of the Business Combination and (2) the date on which the Company consummates a liquidation, merger, capital stock exchange, reorganization, or other similar transaction after the Business Combination that results in all of the Companys stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the last sale price of the Companys common stock equals or exceeds $ 12.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30-trading day period commencing at least 150 days after the Business Combination, the Founder Shares will be released from the lock-up. Any permitted transferees will be subject to the same restrictions and other agreements of the initial stockholders with respect to any Founder Shares. Note 9 Warrants Public Warrants - The Public Warrants will become exercisable on the later of (a) 30 days after the completion of a Business Combination or (b) 12 months from the closing of the Public Offering. No warrants will be exercisable for cash unless the Company has an effective and current registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to such shares of common stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Public Warrants is not effective within a specified period following the consummation of a Business Combination, warrant holders may, until such time as there is an effective registration statement and during any period when the Company shall have failed to maintain an effective registration statement, exercise warrants on a cashless basis pursuant to the exemption provided by Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act, provided that such exemption is available. If that exemption, or another exemption, is not available, holders will not be able to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis. The Public Warrants will expire five years after the completion of a Business Combination or earlier upon redemption or liquidation. 20 Note 9 Warrants (Cont.) Once the warrants become exercisable, the Company may redeem the Public Warrants: in whole and not in part; at a price of $0.01 per warrant; upon not less than 30 days prior written notice of redemption; if, and only if, the reported last sale price of the shares of common stock equals or exceeds $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations and recapitalizations), for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period commencing at any time after the warrants become exercisable and ending on the third business day prior to the notice of redemption to warrant holders; and if, and only if, there is a current registration statement in effect with respect to the shares of common stock underlying the warrants. If the Company calls the Public Warrants for redemption, management will have the option to require all holders that wish to exercise the Public Warrants to do so on a cashless basis, as described in the warrant agreement. Private Warrants - The Private Warrants are identical to the Public Warrants underlying the Units sold in the Public Offering, except that the Private Warrants and the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Private Warrants will not be transferable, assignable or salable until after the completion of a Business Combination, subject to certain limited exceptions. Additionally, the Private Warrants will be exercisable for cash or on a cashless basis, at the holders option, and be non-redeemable so long as they are held by the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees. If the Private Warrants are held by someone other than the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees, the Private Warrants will be redeemable by the Company and exercisable by such holders on the same basis as the Public Warrants. The exercise price and number of shares of common stock issuable on exercise of the warrants may be adjusted in certain circumstances including in the event of a stock dividend, extraordinary dividend or our recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation. However, the warrants will not be adjusted for issuances of shares of common stock at a price below their respective exercise prices. Additionally, in no event will the Company be required to net cash settle the warrants. If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination within the Combination Period and the Company liquidates the funds held in the Trust Account, holders of warrants will not receive any of such funds with respect to their warrants, nor will they receive any distribution from the Companys assets held outside of the Trust Account with the respect to such warrants. Accordingly, the warrants may expire worthless. Note 10 Subsequent Events The Company evaluated subsequent events and transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date up the date that the financial statements were issued. The Company identified one subsequent event on July 8, 2021 related to the issuance of the S-4 amendment which covered an amendment to the Bitfury subscription agreement. On July 8, 2021, the Bitfury Subscription Agreement was amended and restated in its entirety to provide that the 25 % benefit-in-kind discount under the MSSA (in consideration for Bitfurys purchase of an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of Good Works Common Stock at a purchase price of $ 10.00 per share) will instead be paid as a $ 50 million cash payment, which will be made at closing (as defined in the Merger Agreement) in form of cash and/or forgiveness of outstanding indebtedness owed by Cipher to Bitfury. Only July 15, 2021, I-Bankers agreed to loan Good Works Acquisition Corp $ 100,000 to fund its operating expenses. The loan is unsecured and non-interest bearing and matures on the earlier of December 31, 2021 or the date that the Business Combination is consummated. 21 ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting us will be those that we have anticipated. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our or our management teams expectations, hopes, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future. In addition, any statements that refer to projections, forecasts or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intends, may, might, plan, possible, potential, predict, project, should, would and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Factors that might cause or contribute to such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth in the Risk Factors section of the Companys registration statement and prospectus for the Companys initial public offering filed with the SEC. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on June 24, 2020 as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (a Business Combination). We consummated our Public Offering (as defined below) on October 22, 2020 and are currently in the process of locating suitable targets for our business combination. We intend to use the cash proceeds from our Public Offering and the Private Placement described below as well as additional issuances, if any, of our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt to complete the Business Combination. We expect to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our initial Business Combination. We cannot assure you that our plans to raise capital or to complete our initial Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations and Known Trends or Future Events The Company has neither engaged in any significant business operations nor generated any revenues to date. All activities to date relate to the Companys formation and the Public Offering. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are held in the Trust Account (as defined below). We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses as we locate a suitable Business Combination. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $2,058,979 which consisted of change in fair value of warrant liability of $76,329, business combination and operating expenses of $2,032,419 offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $49,769. Proposed Business Combination On March 5, 2021, the Company (or Good Works) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as it may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the Merger Agreement ), by and among Currency Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of the Company ( Merger Sub ), and Cipher Mining Technologies Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Cipher ). The Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby were approved by the boards of directors of each of Good Works and Cipher. The Business Combination The Merger Agreement provides for, among other things, the following transactions at the closing: (i) Merger Sub will merge with and into Cipher, with Cipher as the surviving company in the merger and, after giving effect to such merger, continuing as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Good Works (the Merger ) and, in connection with the Merger, (ii) Good Works will change its name to Cipher Mining Inc. The Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement are hereinafter referred to as the Business Combination . The Business Combination is expected to close in the second quarter of 2021, following the receipt of the required approval by Good Works stockholders and the fulfillment (or waiver) of other customary closing conditions. Business Combination Consideration In accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of Cipher common stock, par value $0.001 issued and outstanding shall be converted into the right to receive four hundred thousand (400,000) shares of Good Works common stock, par value $0.001 ( Good Works Common Stock ); provided that the exchange ratio shall be adjusted as needed to ensure the aggregate Merger consideration received by the sole stockholder of Cipher equals two hundred million (200,000,000) shares of Good Works Common Stock (at a value of ten dollars ($10.00) per share). 22 Governance Good Works has agreed to take all action within its power as may be necessary or appropriate such that, effective immediately after the closing of the Business Combination, Cipher Mining Inc.s board of directors shall consist of seven directors, which directors shall be nominated pursuant to the Merger Agreement, which nominees include one Good Works designee. Additionally, the current Cipher management team will move to Good Works in their current roles and titles. Representations and Warranties; Covenants The Merger Agreement contains representations, warranties and covenants of each of the parties thereto that are customary for transactions of this type, including with respect to the operations of Good Works and Cipher and that each of the parties have undertaken to procure approval under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the HSR Act ). In addition, Good Works has agreed to adopt an equity incentive plan as described in the Merger Agreement. Conditions to Each Partys Obligations The obligation of Good Works and Cipher to consummate the Business Combination is subject to certain closing conditions, including, but not limited to, (i) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act, (ii) the approval of Good Works stockholders, (iii) the approval of Ciphers stockholders and (iv) the Registration Statement (as defined below) becoming effective. In addition, the obligation of Good Works to consummate the Business Combination is subject to the fulfillment (or waiver) of other closing conditions, including, but not limited to, (i) the representations and warranties of Cipher being true and correct to the standards applicable to such representations and warranties and each of the covenants of Cipher having been performed or complied with in all material respect, (ii) the delivery to Good Works of evidence of satisfactory Tail Insurance (as defined in the Merger Agreement) to be bound as of the closing, and (iii) delivery of all ancillary agreements required to be executed and delivered by Cipher or its sole stockholder and (iv) no Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the Merger Agreement) shall have occurred. The obligation of Cipher to consummate the Business Combination is also subject to the fulfillment (or waiver) of other closing conditions, including, but not limited to, (i) the representations and warranties of Good Works and Merger Sub being true and correct to the standards applicable to such representations and warranties and each of the covenants of Good Works having been performed or complied with in all material respects, (ii) the aggregate cash proceeds from Good Works trust account, together with the proceeds from the PIPE Financing (as defined below), equaling no less than $400,000,000 (after deducting any amounts paid to Good Works stockholders that exercise their redemption rights in connection with the Business Combination and net of unpaid transaction expenses incurred or subject to reimbursement by Good Works), (iii) Good Works total outstanding Indebtedness (as defined in the Merger Agreement) shall be less than twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000.00), and (iv) the approval by Nasdaq of Good Works listing application in connection with the Business Combination . Termination The Merger Agreement may be terminated under certain customary and limited circumstances prior to the closing of the Business Combination, including, but not limited to, (i) by mutual written consent of Good Works and Cipher, (ii) by Good Works if there is any breach of the representations and warranties of Cipher or if Cipher Mining fails to perform any covenant or agreement set forth in the Merger Agreement, in each case, such that certain conditions to closing cannot be satisfied and the breach or breaches of such representations or warranties or the failure to perform such covenant or agreement, as applicable, are not cured or cannot be cured within certain specified time periods, (iii) termination by Cipher if there is any breach of the representations and warranties of Good Works or if Good Works fails to perform any covenant or agreement set forth in the Merger Agreement, in each case, such that certain conditions to closing cannot be satisfied and the breach or breaches of such representations or warranties or the failure to perform such covenant or agreement, as applicable, are not cured or cannot be cured within certain specified time periods, (iv) subject to certain limited exceptions, by either Good Works or Cipher if the Business Combination is not consummated within six months of signing of the Merger Agreement, (v) by either Good Works or Cipher if certain required approvals are not obtained by Good Works stockholders after the conclusion of a meeting of Good Works stockholders held for such purpose at which such stockholders voted on such approvals, and (vi) termination by Good Works if Ciphers sole stockholder does not deliver to Good Works a written consent approving the Business Combination within ten business days of the Consent Solicitation Statement (as defined in the Merger Agreement) being disseminated. 23 If the Merger Agreement is validly terminated, none of the parties to the Merger Agreement will have any liability or any further obligation under the Merger Agreement other than customary confidentiality obligations, except in the case of Willful Breach (as defined in the Merger Agreement). Good Works Sponsor Support Agreement Concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, Good Works, and I-B Good Works, LLC (the Sponsor ) and certain other stockholders of Good Works entered into an Acquiror Support Agreement (the Acquiror Support Agreement ) pursuant to which the parties agreed to, among other things, (i) vote at any meeting of the stockholders of Good Works all of its shares of Good Works Common Stock held of record or thereafter acquired in favor of the Proposals (as defined in the Merger Agreement), (ii) be bound by certain other covenants and agreements related to the Business Combination and (iii) be bound by certain transfer restrictions with respect to such securities, prior to the closing of the Business Combination, in each case, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Acquiror Support Agreement. Cipher Support Agreement Concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, the sole stockholder of Cipher representing the requisite votes necessary to approve the Business Combination entered into support agreements (the Company Support Agreement ) with Good Works and Cipher, pursuant to which such holder agreed to (i) vote at any meeting of the stockholders of Cipher all of its Cipher Common Stock held of record or thereafter acquired in favor of the Proposals (as defined in the Merger Agreement) and appoint Good Works as such holders proxy, (ii) be bound by certain other covenants and agreements related to the Business Combination and (iii) be bound by certain transfer restrictions with respect to such securities, in each case, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Company Support Agreement. Restrictive Covenant Agreements Concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, Bitfury Top Holdco B.V. ( Bitfury ), Ciphers sole stockholder, and Good Works entered into a Restrictive Covenant Agreement pursuant to which Bitfury agreed, during the term of the agreement and subject to the parameters and limitations set forth in the agreement, not to hire or solicit Cipher Mining Inc.s employees, not to compete with Cipher Mining Inc. and not to disparage Cipher Mining Inc. The agreement will terminate upon the earlier of seven years from the date of its execution or the termination of the Master Services and Supply Agreement (the MSSA ) between Bitfury Holding B.V. ( BHBV ) and Cipher. The MSSA is included as Exhibit F to Exhibit 2.1 hereto, and the terms of the MSSA are incorporated herein by reference. Concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, BHBV and Good Works entered into a Restrictive Covenant Agreement pursuant to which BHBV agreed, during the term of the agreement and subject to the parameters and limitations set forth in the agreement, not to hire or solicit Cipher Mining Inc.s employees, not to compete with Cipher Mining Inc. and not to disparage Cipher Mining Inc.. The agreement will terminate upon the earlier of seven years from the date of its execution or the termination of the MSSA. PIPE Financing (Private Placement) Concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, Good Works entered into subscription agreements (the Subscription Agreements ) with certain investors (the PIPE Investors ). Pursuant to the Subscription Agreements, the PIPE Investors agreed to subscribe for and purchase, and Good Works agreed to issue and sell to such investors, immediately following the Closing (as defined in the Merger Agreement), an aggregate of 37,500,000 shares of Good Works Common Stock for a purchase price of $10.00 per share, for aggregate gross proceeds of $375,000,000 (the PIPE Financing ). The closing of the PIPE Financing is contingent upon, among other things, the substantially concurrent consummation of the Business Combination. The Subscription Agreements provide that Good Works will grant the investors in the PIPE Financing certain customary registration rights. Bitfury Private Placement Concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement and the execution of the Subscription Agreements with the PIPE Investors, Bitfury agreed to subscribe for and purchase, and Good Works agreed to issue and sell to Bitfury, concurrent with the Closing (as defined in the Merger Agreement), an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of Good Works Common Stock in exchange for a benefit-in-kind commitment as payment for such shares (the Bitfury Private Placement) pursuant to a subscription agreement with Good Works (the Bitfury Subscription Agreement ). Bitfury agreed to cause BHBV to discount the Service Fees (as that term is defined in the MSSA) charged by BHBV under the MSSA as follows: that the first $200,000,000 of Service Fees payable by Cipher to BHBV under the MSSA described above shall be subject to a discount of 25%, to be applied at the point of invoicing and shown as a separate line item on each relevant invoice. For the avoidance of doubt, when the aggregate value of such discount reaches $50,000,000, such discount shall automatically cease to apply. Such discount shall constitute BHBVs benefit-in-kind commitment as payment on behalf of its parent entity, for the issuance of the 5,000,000 shares of Good Works Common Stock pursuant to the Bitfury Private Placement. On July 8, 2021, the Bitfury Subscription Agreement was amended and restated in its entirety to provide that the 25% benefit-in-kind discount under the MSSA (in consideration for Bitfurys purchase of an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of Good Works Common Stock at a purchase price of $10.00 per share) will instead be paid as a $50 million cash payment, which will be made at closing (as defined in the Merger Agreement) in form of cash and/or forgiveness of outstanding indebtedness owed by Cipher to Bitfury. 24 Lock-Ups The Sponsor, certain holders of Good Works Common Stock, and Bitfury, Ciphers sole stockholder immediately prior to the closing of the Business Combination, will enter into lock-up agreements (the Lock-Up Agreements ) and be subject to post-closing lock-ups with respect to their shares of Good Works Common Stock (but excluding any Private Placement Units, which are units that were issued in a private placement to Good Works anchor investors simultaneously with the closing of its initial public offering; each unit consists of one share of Common Stock and one-half of one warrant and were purchased at a price of $10.00 per Private Placement Unit and excluding any shares of Good Works Common Stock issued to Bitfury in the Bitfury Private Placement, which are subject to a separate lock-up restriction, as described in the Bitfury Subscription Agreement); provided that the term of the Lock-Up shall be two years and the Lock-up will allow certain amounts of the shares to be publicly sold after 180 days, subject, in each case, to customary terms and conditions. Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement At the closing of the Business Combination, the Sponsor, certain stockholders of Good Works, and Bitfury (collectively, the Holders ) will enter into an amended and restated registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement ) with Good Works pursuant to which, among other things, the parties thereto will be granted certain customary registrant rights with respect to shares of Good Works Common Stock. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2021 we had $127,722 of cash. On October 22, 2020, we consummated a $150,000,000 initial public offering (the Public Offering) consisting of 15,000,000 units at a price of $10.00 per unit (Unit). Each Unit consists of one share of the Companys common stock, $0.001 par value (the Common Stock), and one-half of one redeemable warrant (each, a Public Warrant). Simultaneously with the closing of the Public Offering, we consummated a $2,228,000 private placement (Private Placement) of an aggregate of 228,000 private placement units (the Private Placement Units). Upon closing of the Public Offering and the Private Placement on October 22, 2020, $150,000,000 in proceeds from the Public Offering and Private Placement was placed in a U.S.-based trust account maintained by Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, acting as trustee (the Trust Account). In connection with the IPO, the underwriters were granted a 45-day option from the date of the prospectus (the Over-Allotment Option) to purchase up to 2,250,000 additional units to cover over-allotments (the Over- Allotment Units), if any. On October 26, 2020, the underwriters purchased an additional 1,500,000 Over-Allotment Units pursuant to the partial exercise of the Over-Allotment Option. On November 17, 2020, the underwriters purchased an additional 500,000 Over-Allotment Units pursuant to the partial exercise of the Over-Allotment Option. The Over-Allotment Units were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per Over-Allotment Unit, generating aggregate additional gross proceeds of $20,000,000 to the Company. On November 17, 2020, the underwriters canceled the remainder of the Over-Allotment Option. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the trust account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the trust account (excluding the business combination marketing fees payable to I-Bankers) to complete our initial Business Combination. We may withdraw interest to pay our taxes and liquidation expenses if we are unsuccessful in completing a Business Combination. We estimate our annual franchise tax obligations to be $200,000, which is the maximum amount of annual franchise taxes payable by us as a Delaware corporation per annum, which we may pay from funds from the Public Offering held outside of the trust account or from interest earned on the funds held in the trust account and released to us for this purpose. Our annual income tax obligations will depend on the amount of interest and other income earned on the amounts held in the trust account reduced by our operating expense and franchise taxes. We expect the interest earned on the amount in the trust account will be sufficient to pay our income taxes. To the extent that our equity or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our initial Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. 25 Further, our Sponsor, officers and directors or their respective affiliates may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required (the Working Capital Loans). If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay the Working Capital Loans. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of proceeds held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans, but no proceeds held in the Trust Account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. Such Working Capital Loans would be evidenced by promissory notes. The notes would either be repaid upon consummation of a Business Combination, without interest, or, at the lenders discretion, or converted upon consummation of a Business Combination into additional Private Placement Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit (the Working Capital Units). As of June 30, 2021, no Working Capital Loans have been issued. We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon consummation of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, we would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of our Business Combination. If we are unable to complete our Business Combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following our Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangement as of June 30, 2021. Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2021, we did not have any long-term debt, capital or operating lease obligations. We entered into an administrative services agreement pursuant to which we will pay an affiliate of one of our directors for office space and secretarial and administrative services provided to members of our management team, in an amount not to exceed $10,000 per month. We have engaged I-Bankers as an advisor in connection with our acquiring, engaging in a share exchange, share reconstruction and amalgamation with, purchasing all or substantially all of the assets of, entering into contractual arrangements with, or engaging in any other similar Business Combination with one or more businesses or entities. We will pay I-Bankers for such services a fee equal to 4.5% of the gross proceeds of the Public Offering. Critical Accounting Policies Managements discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our unaudited financial information. We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Financial Statements included in this report. Our unaudited financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain of our accounting policies require that management apply significant judgments in defining the appropriate assumptions integral to financial estimates. On an ongoing basis, management reviews the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Judgments are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, industry trends and information available from outside sources, as appropriate. However, by their nature, judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, and, therefore, actual results could differ from our estimates. For a full discussion of our accounting estimates and assumptions that have been identified as critical in the preparation of the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements, please refer to Good Works Acquisition Corp.s Form 10-K/A Amendment No. 2 for the year ended December 31, 2020. Recent Accounting Standards Our management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying financial statements. 26 JOBS Act The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act and are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an independent registered public accounting firms attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the independent registered public accounting firms report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis), and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of this offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.