Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Annual Report, and in our future reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The forwardlooking statements in this Annual Report are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. You should read this Annual Report and the documents that we reference in this Annual Report and have filed as exhibits to this Annual Report with the understanding that our actual future results, performance and achievements may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forwardlooking statements by these cautionary statements. These forwardlooking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. Except as required by applicable law, we do not plan to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statements contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of any new information, future events or otherwise. ii WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION Our corporate website address is https://www.ciphermining.com (Corporate Website). The contents of, or information accessible through, our Corporate Website are not part of this Annual Report. The Company maintains a dedicated investor website at https://investors.ciphermining.com/investors (Investors Website) which is similarly not part of this Annual Report. We make our filings with the SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10Q, Current Reports on Form 8K, and all amendments to those reports, available free of charge on our Investors Website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC. We may use our Investors Website as a distribution channel of material information about the Company including through press releases, investor presentations, sustainability reports, and notices of upcoming events. We intend to utilize our Investors Website as a channel of distribution to reach public investors and as a means of disclosing material nonpublic information for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Any reference to our Corporate Website or Investors Website addresses do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on or available through those websites, and you should not consider such information to be a part of this Annual Report or any other filings we make with the SEC. 3 SUMMARY RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties when investing in our common stock (Common Stock). The principal risks and uncertainties affecting our business include the following: We operate in a rapidly evolving industry and have an evolving business model and strategy, which includes our increasing focus on diversification into constructing and operating data centers for HPC companies, as well as bitcoin mining. If we fail to grow our hashrate, we may be unable to compete, and our results of operations could suffer. The further development and acceptance of digital asset networks and other digital assets, which represent a new and rapidly changing industry, are subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to evaluate. The slowing or stopping of the development or acceptance of digital asset systems may adversely affect an investment in us. We may face several risks due to disruptions in the digital asset markets, including but not limited to, financing risk, risk of increased losses or impairments in our investments or other assets, risks of legal proceedings and government investigations, and risks from price declines or price volatility of digital assets. Any unfavorable global economic, business or political conditions, such as geopolitical tensions, military conflicts, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics, trade restrictions, tariffs, or similar events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Bitcoin mining activities are energy-intensive, which may restrict the geographic locations of miners and have a negative environmental impact. Government regulators may potentially restrict the ability of electricity suppliers to provide electricity to mining operations, such as ours, increase taxes on the purchase of electricity used to mine bitcoin, or even fully or partially ban mining operations. We have concentrated our operations and, thus, are particularly exposed to the performance of the Odessa Facility and changes in the regulatory environment, market conditions and natural disasters in Texas. We depend on third parties, including electric grid operators, electric utility providers and manufacturers of certain critical and specialized equipment, and rely on components and raw materials that may be subject to price fluctuations or shortages, including application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) chips that have been subject to periods of significant shortage and high innovation pace. We may be affected by price fluctuations in the wholesale and retail power markets. We are vulnerable to severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including severe heat, winter weather events, earthquakes, fires, floods, hurricanes, as well as power outages and other industrial incidents or mechanical failures, which could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Bitcoin miners and other necessary hardware are subject to malfunction, technological obsolescence and physical degradation If we or our third-party providers fail to protect confidential information and/or experience cybersecurity incidents, such as cyber-attacks, data breaches, hacking attacks or malware, there may be disruptions to our operations, triggering significant liability for us, which could harm our operating results and financial condition, and damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. The value of bitcoin has historically been subject to wide swings, and our operating results may be adversely affected by our hedging activity. There is a potential that, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by a custodian, bitcoin held in custody could be determined to be property of a bankruptcy estate and we could be considered a general unsecured creditor thereof. 4 Regulatory changes or actions may restrict the use of bitcoin in a manner that adversely affects our business, prospects or operations. Our sources of revenue are dependent on bitcoin and the Bitcoin ecosystem, which can be highly volatile. Any potential use of emerging technologies like artificial intelligence, machine learning and generative artificial intelligence could lead to unintended consequences and result in reputational harm and litigation. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not timely remediated, may adversely affect the accuracy and reliability of our future financial statements, and our reputation, business and the price of our common stock, as well as may lead to a loss of investor confidence in us. 5 PART I Item 1. Business. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report to the Company, Cipher, Cipher Mining, we, us or our refers to Cipher Mining Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. Business Overview We develop and operate industrial-scale data centers. Our active portfolio and development pipeline is expected to consist of more than 3.0 GW of capacity across 11 sites. We currently operate four bitcoin mining data centers and have a pipeline of seven additional sites in Texas, including one site expected to energize in May 2025. As we develop the sites in our pipeline and source future sites, we evaluate their suitability for either bitcoin mining or high-performance computing (HPC). For further details on our data centers, see Data Center Portfolio. Our current intention is to continue expanding our business by developing and operating industrial-scale data centers for bitcoin mining and HPC, expanding capacity at our current data centers, developing our treasury management platform and entering into other strategic arrangements, such as joint ventures, data center hosting and leasing agreements, or software licensing arrangements. We aim to be a market leader in innovation, including in bitcoin mining growth, data center construction and as a hosting partner to HPC companies. Data Center Portfolio We currently operate approximately 327 MW of facilities across four bitcoin mining data centers in Texas, including one wholly-owned data center and three partially-owned data centers that we acquired through investments in joint ventures. We also have a pipeline of approximately 2.8 GW across seven additional sites in Texas, including one site that we expect to energize in May 2025. We will continue to evaluate other sites, locations and partnerships to expand our data center operations, selecting sites that are suitable for bitcoin mining and HPC data centers. As of January 31, 2025, we operated an aggregate hashrate capacity of approximately 15.7 exahash per second (EH/s), deploying approximately 327 megawatts (MW) of electricity, of which we owned an aggregate hashrate capacity of approximately 13.5 EH/s, deploying approximately 266 MW of electricity. As further discussed in Our Strategy, we plan to deploy an additional approximately 150 MW for a total of approximately 477 MW of electrical capacity by the end of 2025, and a corresponding hashrate of at least approximately 25.2 EH/s, of which we expect to own approximately 23.0 EH/s, with the remainder being owned by WindHQ, our JV partner. For further details on our joint ventures, see Business AgreementsJoint Ventures. Odessa Facility Our largest operational data center is our Odessa data center (the Odessa Facility), which is our wholly-owned 207 MW facility located in Odessa, Texas. The Odessa Facility is an approximately 52 acre site, located next to a natural gas power production facility. We began bitcoin mining operations on this site in November 2022 and completed the build out of the site in September 2023. As of January 31, 2025, the Odessa Facility is capable of producing approximately 11.3 EH/s of hashrate capacity. We have developed, and continue to refine, proprietary technology to increase the efficiency of our mining activity and associated curtailment due to changes in local electrical power prices at the Odessa Facility. Our goal is to maximize the time our miners are mining bitcoin at favorable prices and, in contrast, to avoid consuming electrical power when the cost of that power is significantly higher than our anticipated bitcoin mining revenues. The power at the Odessa Facility is supplied by Luminant ET Services Company LLC (Luminant) under a power purchase agreement, pursuant to which we have access, until at least July 2027, to a cost of electricity of approximately 2.7 c/kWh. For further details on our power purchase agreement with Luminant, see Business AgreementsLuminant Power Agreement. Alborz Facility Our Alborz data center (the Alborz Facility or Alborz) is located near Happy, Texas and is partially-owned through a joint venture with WindHQ LLC (WindHQ). We have a 49% membership interest in Alborz LLC, which owns the Alborz Facility. 1 Alborz is currently a 40 MW facility powered solely by Falvez Energys Astra Wind Project (the Astra Wind Farm), owned by an affiliate of WindHQ, next to which it is co-located. The Alborz Facilitys capacity is approximately 1.3 EH/s, of which we own approximately 0.64 EH/s under the WindHQ Joint Venture Agreement. Because the sole source of electricity for the Alborz Facility is the nearby wind farm, operating the Alborz miners involves frequent adjustments to the hashing power because of changes in the wind. When there is not sufficient wind to generate enough electrical power for our miners, we curtail our mining activity. For certain related risks, see Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business, Industry and OperationsBitcoin miners and other necessary hardware are subject to malfunction, technological obsolescence and physical degradation.We have developed, and continue to refine, proprietary technology to increase the efficiency of our mining activity and associated curtailment due to wind conditions at the Alborz Facility. We may, with our joint venture partner, Wind HQ, seek to connect the Alborz Facility to the local electrical grid, if we are able to secure applicable regulatory approvals on favorable economic terms. There is no assurance that we will be able to secure such approval on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. If we are able to do so, then our dependence on the wind power supplied by the Astra Wind Farm will be lower and, to the extent that we can supplement electrical power from the local grid at a favorable cost, we anticipate being able to increasingly avoid curtailment time and increase the time spent mining bitcoin at the Alborz Facility. Separately, we may also have the opportunity to expand the capacity of the Alborz Facility up to 163 MW, subject to applicable regulatory approvals. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business, Industry and OperationsBitcoin miners and other necessary hardware are subject to malfunction, technological obsolescence and physical degradation. BearFacility Our Bear data center (the Bear Facility) is located near Andrews, Texas and is also partially-owned through a joint venture with WindHQ. The Bear Facility is connected to the electrical grid. We have a 49% membership in Bear LLC, which owns the Bear Facility. The Bear Facility was expanded in 2024 from 10 MW to 40 MW. It is capable of hashing at a rate of up to approximately 1.6 EH/s. We aim to maximize the time our miners are mining bitcoin at favorable prices and, in contrast, to avoid consuming electrical power when the cost of that power is significantly higher than our anticipated bitcoin mining revenues. The Bear Facility has the capacity to expand up to 115 MW, subject to applicable regulatory approvals. Chief Facility Our Chief data center (the Chief Facility) is also located near Andrews, Texas and is also partially-owned through a joint venture with WindHQ. The Chief Facility is connected to the electrical grid. We have a 49% membership interest in Chief Mountain LLC, which owns the Chief Facility. The Chief Facility was expanded from 10 MW to 40 MW in 2024. It is capable of hashing at a rate of up to approximately 1.6 EH/s. We aim to maximize the time our miners are mining bitcoin at favorable prices and, in contrast, to avoid consuming electrical power when the cost of that power is significantly higher than our anticipated bitcoin mining revenues. The Chief Facility has the capacity to expand up to 115 MW, subject to applicable regulatory approvals. Black Pearl Facility Our Black Pearl data center (Black Pearl or the Black Pearl Facility) is located in Winkler County, Texas. The Black Pearl Facility has conditional interconnection approval from Electricity Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT), the organization that operates Texas electrical grid, of up to 300 MW. We expect to energize the 300 MW substation in the second quarter of 2025. We intend to conduct bitcoin mining in the first phase of the Black Pearl Facility of up to 150 MW. The remaining 150 MW of the site is suitable for either HPC hosting or bitcoin mining. Barber Lake Site Our Barber Lake site (Barber Lake or the Barber Lake Site) is located near Colorado City, Texas. The Barber Lake Site has ERCOT interconnection approval of up to 300 MW and includes an energized substation. The site is suitable for developing a data center for either HPC or bitcoin mining. 2 Stingray Site Our Stingray site (Stingray or the Stingray Site) is located in West Texas. The Stingray Site has conditional ERCOT interconnection approval of up to 100 MW. We expect to energize the site in the first half of 2026. Reveille Site Our Reveille site (Reveille or the Reveille Site) is located in Cotulla, Texas. The Reveille Site has interconnection of up to 70 MW, with the possibility for expansion before we energize. We expect to energize the site in the first half of 2027. Site Options In October 2024, we acquired the right to purchase three sites in West and North Texas, each with a targeted capacity of up to 500 MW. We will be able to exercise the option in the next 24 months to acquire the sites, including 580 acres of land to be either leased or purchased. Each site has the potential for developing data centers for either HPC or bitcoin mining. Data Center Sourcing, Development and Operation Our core business model involves sourcing new sites, designing and developing data center facilities, and operating them for our self-owned bitcoin mining operations or for potential HPC tenants. We believe this process and our teams expertise are key to our operational success and maintaining our competitiveness. Our team conducts a rigorous process of sourcing, technical design, construction and operations. Sourcing Our teams experience and strong industry relationships offer us insight into sourcing attractive sites. We consider size, energization timing, required power capacity, regulatory approvals, location, anticipated power costs and other factors in evaluating potential sites. We take into consideration requirements for bitcoin mining operations or potential HPC operations. Our team begins sourcing potential sites up to a few years in advance of planned development. We source new data center locations by acquiring or leasing property that we can develop for use as data center facilities, including constructing on greenfield land. We believe the competition for power capacity and energized facilities is ever increasing, and we also look at opportunities to convert existing facilities for our data center operations or to acquire data centers from other companies. Regardless of the source of our data center capacity, our teams goal is to ensure our facilities meet our high standards for operational efficiency and safety. Construction After procuring a site, we design and, through cooperation with developers, contractors, and suppliers, build out a facility that meets our advanced design and technical requirements. We believe our teams industry experience and process serve as a foundation for ensuring our data centers meet the highest standards for operational efficiency and safety. Our team oversees construction project management, including vendor selection, procurement, budgeting, quality supervision, obtaining approvals and more. We believe that these elements are important to ensure the project is completed on time, within budget, and to specific quality standards. We typically will determine the business model planned for the site prior to construction to best-suit a bitcoin mining data center or a potential HPC tenants needs. As we expand beyond bitcoin mining, our approach aims to cater to a range of requirements and site characteristics, including power and water capacity, redundancy, power density, cooling, rack configuration and other technical specifications. Operation Our data center operations team manages the daily operation of our data center facilities. Our teams extensive industry experience and commitment to operational excellence help us meet our goal of safely operating data centers at the highest standards. In 2024, the Odessa Facility was the first bitcoin mining data center to receive the Management and Operations, or M&O, Approved Site award from the Uptime Institute, an independent organization focused on improving 3 the performance, efficiency, and reliability of business-critical infrastructure that has established standards and performance certifications for data center design and construction. Our team oversees all aspects of our data centers operations, which include data center performance, miner performance at our bitcoin mining operations, network performance and incident response management. Our technology team has also developed proprietary software for data center management and optimization, which provides critical real-time information on our data centers performance and enables us to optimize our operations. For more information on our proprietary software, see Intellectual Property. Webelieve that our teams experience and high standards for data center operations set us apart from many of our competitors. Revenue Structure Currently, our revenue is derived from mining bitcoin. Specifically, we purchase electrical power and use it to run miners that produce computing power. We contribute the computing power we produce to one or more mining pools verifying transactions on the Bitcoin blockchain in exchange for block rewards and transaction fees. This means that we send our computing power, or hashrate, to the mining pool in exchange for a proportionate share of bitcoin mined by the pool. We have no immediate plans to establish our own mining pool. We intend to periodically re-evaluate this as part of our overall strategy going forward and, in the future, we may also decide to stop using mining pools. To the extent that we can produce bitcoin through mining at a cost that is lower than the market price of bitcoin, over the long term we expect to generate profits. Block rewards are rewards paid in bitcoin that are programmed into the Bitcoin software and awarded to a miner, or a group of miners, for solving the cryptographic problem required to create a new block on the Bitcoin blockchain. Block rewards are fixed and the Bitcoin network is designed to reduce them periodically through halving. Most recently, in April 2024, the block reward was reduced from 6.25 to 3.125 bitcoin, and it will halve again, to 1.5625 bitcoin, which is estimated to occur in April 2028. Bitcoin miners also collect transaction fees for each transaction they confirm. Miners validate unconfirmed transactions by adding the previously unconfirmed transactions to new blocks in the blockchain. Miners are not forced to confirm any specific transaction, but they are economically incentivized to confirm valid transactions as a means of collecting fees. Miners have historically accepted relatively low transaction fees, but transaction fees vary and it is difficult to predict what transaction fees will be in the future. We have a portfolio of electrical power that is designed to assist us in profitably mining bitcoin. We purchase a majority of the power for our currently operational data centers at a fixed cost. To the extent that we do not use purchased electrical power to mine bitcoin, we seek to sell that electrical power back to the market. To the extent we can sell such surplus power at a price greater than our cost to purchase it, we expect to generate profits. If we are curtailed by our power provider, we may purchase power from the electrical grid. Business Agreements Joint Ventures On June 10, 2021, we and WindHQ signed a framework agreement for a joint venture for the construction, build out, deployment and operation of data centers in the United States (the WindHQ Joint Venture Agreement). We currently operate three data centers (the Alborz Facility, the Bear Facility, and the Chief Facility) that were built under the WindHQ Joint Venture Agreement, each of which is owned by a separate limited liability company in which WindHQ owns 51% of the membership interests and we own 49% of the membership interests. WindHQ provides the power to the Alborz Facility, and certain construction and operations support. At the Bear Facility and the Chief Facility, electrical power is purchased from a retailer at ERCOT market prices. We manage each data center to mine bitcoin when the cost of electrical power in the relevant market is such that we think we can mine bitcoin profitably. In contrast, when the cost of electrical power is higher than we think makes it possible for us to profitably mine bitcoin, we curtail our mining operations at the data center. The Bear Facility and the Chief Facility do not currently have fixed price power purchase agreements. Depending on market conditions, we may enter into such agreements, but only if we are able to do so on favorable terms, which we cannot guarantee. 4 Luminant Power Agreement On June 23, 2021, we entered into a power purchase agreement with Luminant for the supply of electric power to the Odessa Facility, which was subsequently amended and restated on July 9, 2021, and further amended (as amended, the Luminant Power Agreement), pursuant to which we have access, until at least July 2027, to a cost of electricity of approximately 2.7 c/kWh. The Luminant Power Agreement provides for a take or pay arrangement, whereby, Luminant will supply, and we are obligated to accept and pay for, a total electrical power capacity equal to at least 66.7% of the full 207 MW capacity each year at a predetermined MWh rate. The agreement also provides for certain curtailment events pursuant to which Luminant has a right to curtail the electrical power delivered in each contractual year. Subject to certain early termination exceptions, the agreement provides for a subsequent automatic annual renewal, unless either party provides written notice to the other party of its intent to terminate the agreement at least six months prior to the expiration of then current term. Miner Purchases The substantial majority of our capital expenditures to date have been devoted to the development and construction of our bitcoin mining data centers and the acquisition of mining hardware. We have purchased miners from Bitmain, SuperAcme, and Canaan. Bitcoin and Blockchain Our business model at our currently operational sites focuses on bitcoin mining. Bitcoin is the oldest and most commonly used cryptocurrency today. As outlined by the seminal bitcoin whitepaper, Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System, bitcoin is a form of digital currency, or an electronic payment system based on cryptographic proof instead of trust, allowing any two willing parties to transact directly with each other without the need for a trusted third party. Bitcoin depends on a consensus-based network and a public ledger, known as a blockchain, which contains the record of every bitcoin transaction ever processed. Transactions listed on the Bitcoin blockchain are verified through a process called mining. The miners we operate are highly specialized computer servers built to use application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) chips that are designed specifically to mine bitcoin. These computer servers are referred to as mining rigs, miners, and rigs. With them we produce computing power, known as hashrate, with which we verify transactions on the Bitcoin blockchain. Bitcoin mining refers to the process of proposing and verifying transaction updates to the Bitcoin blockchain, which helps keep the Bitcoin network and its blockchain secure. HPC Hosting In addition to bitcoin mining, we have been actively pursuing opportunities to develop portions of our sites and power pipeline for HPC hosting and leasing. The expansion of artificial intelligence (AI) applications and the expected electricity requirements required for AI data centers has made parts of our power and site pipeline attractive to hyperscalers and other AI and HPC companies. Our business specializes in designing, constructing and managing data centers tailored to support HPC applications. We are currently exploring opportunities with potential tenants to develop some of our sites into HPC or AI data centers, including our Barber Lake facility. For the sites in our development pipeline that are attractive for HPC, we will continue to explore developing them for HPC and entering into long term lease arrangements with hyperscalers or other AI and HPC companies. To the extent we do not find such tenants for any particular site on terms that are attractive to us, then we will consider using the site for bitcoin mining. Our Strengths We believe we have strengths that give us a competitive advantage in the data center construction and operations business, including the following. Valuable assets with strategic adjacencies and potential long-term opportunities We believe we are strategically well-positioned to continue developing and expanding our data center operations business, and also to enhance them through other long-term opportunities in the Bitcoin ecosystem and beyond. Those opportunities could include, for example, potential partnerships with larger companies in HPC, energy, technology and financial services, as well as offering construction, operational and data science services associated with bitcoin mining or HPC hosting. 5 We believe demands for data center infrastructure have increased substantially and that the data center industry is poised for continued significant growth, driven by rapid adoption of digital technologies across all sectors, such as bitcoin mining and HPC. We believe our valuable portfolio of data center sites and our ability to continue sourcing and developing sites is a key strategic advantage against this competitive landscape. Key managements track record with relevant expertise and capabilities We have an experienced executive management team with many years of relevant experience and significant industry and technical knowledge. The executive management team has recruited talented employees with experience and expertise in finance, data science, data center construction and operation, power procurement, logistics, and computer science fields. Many of our employees have significant management experience, which complements our business model and talent management philosophy that favors a lean head count structure and the use of third-party vendors and contractors, as well as technology, to reduce fixed costs. We hope to leverage the talents and efforts of the entire team in developing and operating our data centers and in sourcing new opportunities. We believe our teams experience and ability to source data center sites in the face of extreme demand is a valuable asset to the business. Scalable operations sourced by identifying attractive site characteristics We believe we have developed a valuable power portfolio across our current and future pipeline of sites and that we have developed a repeatable power strategy to significantly scale our operations. With respect to bitcoin mining, we believe that scale can be a key factor in driving cost and margin improvements in the bitcoin mining business, as well as providing a degree of protection against the price volatility associated with bitcoin. As of January 31, 2025, we have deployed approximately 327 MW of electrical capacity across our four data centers, with a corresponding hashrate of approximately 15.7 EH/s, of which we owned approximately 13.5 EH/s. As further discussed in Our Strategy, we plan to deploy an additional approximately 150 MW for a total of approximately 477 MW of electrical capacity by the end of 2025, and a corresponding hashrate of at least approximately 25.2 EH/s, of which we expect to own approximately 23.0 EH/s, with the remainder being owned by WindHQ, our JV partner. In 2025, we plan to expand deployment of electrical capacity at our existing data centers, including our Black Pearl Facility that is under construction, at our other pipeline of sites, and potentially also at new, yet to be secured, sites. We plan to use cash flows that we expect to generate from our operations and potentially additional sources of financing, or joint venture or other arrangements, to fund the required capital expenditures associated with any potential expansion. Cost leadership with reliable electricity supply and resilient business model with downside protection against drops in bitcoin prices Our current portfolio of power for our data centers has an average cost that we believe to be among the lowest in the industry. For further details on those arrangements, see Business AgreementsLuminant Power Agreement. We have access, until at least July 2027, to competitive electricity costs, with a cost of electricity of approximately 2.7 c/kWh. We believe that we operate one of the most efficient mining rig fleets in the global market by running our mining equipment with proprietary software applications that help us maximize computing power output per MW while attempting to minimize unintentional downtime and repair costs. Additionally, our strategyinvolves curtailing our mining operations, meaning we turn the miners on and off, for a variety of contractual, economic, weather related, business or other reasons. At our sites that do not have contractually fixed price power, for example, we operate our proprietary software to curtail during times when power prices are high; in this way we significantly reduce the prices we pay for power at these data centers. For further details, see Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business, Industry and OperationsBitcoin miners and other necessary hardware are subject to malfunction, technological obsolescence and physical degradation. The overall hashrate of the Bitcoin network is generally correlated with bitcoin price, and any significant fall in bitcoin price may force high-cost miners to cease their mining activities, which would typically result in a decrease of the network power. Because the number of blocks available to be mined is set by Bitcoin protocol irrespective of the networks hashrate or bitcoin prices, in periods of low bitcoin prices, low-cost producers may have the opportunity to take the market share of less-efficient participants. We believe that our controlled power costs, whether through contractually fixed price power arrangements or the use of our proprietary data center operations software, use of leading technology, and reliable operations and maintenance services will provide our mining operations with resilience against drops in bitcoin prices. 6 Our Strategy Our strategy is to develop and operate industrial-scale data centers for bitcoin mining and HPC, as we aim to be a market leader in innovation, including in bitcoin mining growth, data center construction and as a hosting partner to HPC companies. Commitment to growth, innovation and retaining flexibility to consider strategically adjacent opportunities to expand our business model We recognize the value of our data centers and power infrastructure when combined with innovative and disruptive technologies, like bitcoin mining, blockchain technology and HPC. As the competition for power capacity and data center locations continues to increase, we aim to capitalize on our commitment to innovation and flexibility by expanding our business to include data center construction for industries beyond bitcoin mining, such as HPC hosting. We believe we have been able to maintain an innovative approach by leveraging our experienced teams know-how in power origination, data center design and construction project management, and technology. Our commitment to innovation is also demonstrated by our development of proprietary technology to manage data center operations, particularly power management and curtailment. Similarly, as the Bitcoin ecosystem develops and our business, including our bitcoin inventory, grows, we aim to retain flexibility in considering and engaging in various strategic initiatives that may be complimentary to our bitcoin mining operations. For example, we have enhanced our treasury management platform by engaging market counterparties with which we can hedge some or all of the value of our bitcoin inventory or the value of our expected forward production, and we could consider initiatives such as: (i) lending out bitcoin as an additional line of revenue; (ii) engaging into strategic acquisitions or joint ventures; (iii) leveraging our expected bitcoin holdings to enter into strategic partnerships in the fintech space; (iv) engaging in asset management products; and (v) providing operational support or mining-as-a-service products, which may involve working with infrastructure investors on managed bitcoin mining deployments and other potential projects. Establish our cost leadership as a bitcoin mining operator and maintain strong relationships with our industry partners We seek to structure relationships with our equipment and service providers, power suppliers and other potential partners as long-term relationships. We believe this approach will help us expand our operations in a cost-effective manner that will contribute to the operational stability of our bitcoin mining business. In addition, we aim to be one of the lowest cost producers of bitcoin. We believe that will serve us well in bull markets for bitcoin and protect us in bear markets. Use of mining pools As part of our operations, we use third-party mining pools to mine bitcoin. This means that we send our computing power, or hashrate, to the mining pool in exchange for a proportionate share of bitcoin mined by the pool. We have no immediate plans to establish our own mining pool. We intend to periodically re-evaluate this as part of our overall strategy going forward and, in the future, we may also decide to stop using mining pools. Use of custodians We generally store the majority of our bitcoin in cold storage, unless we transfer it to a trading account to be sold or pledged as security for loans or derivatives we may enter into with market counterparties. We use Coinbase Prime as our primary custodian to store our bitcoin, but also have accounts with other custodians. We periodically re-evaluate these services and, in the future, may decide to use additional or other custodians. As part of our regular treasury management, we consider market conditions and our financial obligations to determine if any portion of newly mined or stored bitcoin should be transferred to the hot wallet for liquidation. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business, Industry and OperationsThere is a potential that, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by a custodian, bitcoin held in custody could be determined to be property of a bankruptcy estate and we could be considered a general unsecured creditor thereof and Our limited insurance protection exposes us and our shareholders to the risk of loss of our bitcoin for which no person is liable. Focus on building our operations in the United States Our operations are currently all within the United States. We believe that the North American market, and specifically the United States, represents a particularly attractive geographic region for data center operations, particularly bitcoin mining. Two key drivers for this are the attractive market dynamics and its stable regulatory environment. We 7 believe that the strong market dynamics in the United States are particularly driven by low-cost energy and reliable power infrastructure, investor interest in bitcoin mining and access to capital markets, access to data center construction and operations talent markets, and potential opportunities to partner with energy industry participants on projects involving renewable energy sources. On the regulatory side, while crypto asset regulation in the United States, as in the rest of the world, is still in development (see Government Regulation), we believe that the regulatory framework for bitcoin in the United States is sufficiently well established and accepted. Furthermore, we believe that the U.S. digital asset ecosystem is more tightly regulated and may attract more compliance-oriented investors, which is expected to contribute to the overall stability of the ecosystem. We may in the future consider establishing operations in other countries, depending on the business opportunity and the relative risks associated with the relevant jurisdiction. Competition Bitcoin is mined all over the world by a variety of miners, including individuals, public and private companies, and mining pools. We define our principal competitors as other publicly traded bitcoin miners because there is widely available information about their operations. Several public companies (traded in the United States and internationally), such as the following, may be considered to compete with us: MARA Holdings, Inc. Riot Platforms, Inc. CleanSpark, Inc. Hut 8 Corp. Hive Digital Technologies Ltd. Bitfarms Ltd. IREN Limited TeraWulf Inc. Core Scientific, Inc. Bit Digital, Inc. Bitdeer Technologies Group Currently, our data centers are all located in Texas, where we may face significant and increasing competition, because Texas, through its regulatory and economic incentives, has encouraged bitcoin mining companies, like ours, to locate their operations in the state. Texas is also an attractive market for locating AI or HPC data centers. There is also a possibility that, in the future, foreign governments may decide to subsidize or in some other way support certain large-scale cryptocurrency mining projects. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulatory FrameworkRegulatory changes or actions may restrict the use of bitcoin in a manner that adversely affects our business, prospects or operations. Thus, we compete against many companies and entities operating both within the United States and abroad. Equally important, as bitcoin price increases, additional miners may be drawn into the market. The corollary would mean that as bitcoin price decreases, miners that are less cost-efficient may be driven out of the market. Government Regulation As a company operating at the intersection of data center, bitcoin mining and HPC hosting services, we are committed to maintaining a proactive and adaptive approach to regulatory compliance. We closely monitor legislative and regulatory developments and engage in dialogue with relevant stakeholders to ensure our business practices align with the evolving legal and regulatory framework. Despite uncertainties posed by a changing regulatory landscape, we remain committed to maintaining innovative and responsible business practices in data center, bitcoin mining and HPC hosting markets. We operate in a complex and rapidly evolving regulatory environment and we are subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by U.S. federal, state and local governments, governmental agencies and regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Trade Commission and the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, as well as similar entities in other countries. Other 8 regulatory bodies, governmental or semi-governmental, have shown an interest in regulating or investigating companies engaged in the blockchain or cryptocurrency businesses. As the regulatory and legal environment evolves, we may become subject to new laws and further regulation by the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC), other federal agencies and state and local governments, which may affect our mining and other activities. For example, on January 23, 2025, the Trump Administration signed an executive order titled Strengthening American Leadership in Digital Financial Technology, which introduces new dynamics to the regulatory landscape. This order emphasizes the importance of the digital asset industry in U.S. innovation and economic development, outlining policies to support the growth and use of digital assets and blockchain technology. Key policies outlined in the executive order include ensuring access to open public blockchain networks for lawful purposes, promoting the U.S. dollar's sovereignty through lawful dollar-backed stablecoins, and providing regulatory clarity with technology-neutral regulations. The establishment of a new working group within the National Economic Council to propose a federal regulatory framework for digital assets could lead to significant changes in market structure, oversight, consumer protection, and risk management. The evolving regulatory environment may pose challenges to our operations, particularly if new regulations introduce additional compliance costs or restrict certain activities. Additionally, various bills have been proposed in the U.S. Congress related to our business, which may be adopted and have an impact on us, and governmental agencies and regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, the CFTC, the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) and the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the U.S. Department of the Treasury (FinCEN), may also enact regulations related to our business, which may have an impact on us On a state level, there have been several recent legislative efforts to manage power consumption and support grid reliability, which affects our business, as an operator of industrial-scale data centers. In 2025, the Texas legislature introduced legislation to support ERCOTs grid reliability by proposing minimum transmission rates on certain large loads and removing phantom loads from its interconnection queue to enhance accuracy of actual future load growth. Such regulation may increase the costs of running our current data centers and sourcing new potential sites in Texas. In 2025, the Public Utility Commission of Texas (the PUCT) also required operators of large virtual currency mining operations connected to register their facilities with the PUCT. For additional discussion regarding our belief about the potential risks existing and future regulation pose to our business, see Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulatory Framework. Furthermore, because we may strategically expand our operations into new areas, see Our Strategy Commitment to growth, innovation and retaining flexibility to consider strategically adjacent opportunities to expand our business model, we may become subject to additional regulatory requirements. Intellectual Property We use specific hardware and software for our data center operations. In certain cases, source code and other software assets may be subject to an open source license, as much technology development underway in this sector is open source. For these works, we intend to adhere to the terms of any license agreements that may be in place. In addition, we have developed and continue to refine certain proprietary trade secrets and software applications to enhance the profitability and operational effectiveness of our data center operations and may continue to develop those applications or others in the future. We hold two granted United States patents and one allowed U.S. patent application. Additionally, we have pending U.S. and foreign patent applications for our proprietary technology used in our data center operations. We rely upon trade secrets, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights and other intellectual property rights and license the use of intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. Human Capital Management As of the date of this filing, we have 43 full-time employees and officers. We believe our employee relations to be good. We aim to attract and retain talented and dedicated employees who contribute to the operation of our business model. As such, we have recruited employees with experience and expertise in the following areas: finance, data science, data center construction and operation, computer science, power procurement, and logistics. We aim to instill an ownership culture in all areas of our business model, and our compensation and benefits philosophies are designed to retain our employees and recruit new employees as necessary. Seasonality Our annual and quarterly operating results have the potential to be significantly affected by seasonality related to weather and the related energy commodity price volatility. The price of electric power typically peaks during the winter and summer months, and more generally during extreme weather events, which can potentially impact the Companys results. Additionally, extreme weather conditions may affect the efficiency and uptime of our mining operations which will have an impact on operating results. 9 Corporate Information Cipher Mining Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware corporation on August 27, 2021 in connection with the closing of a transaction (the Business Combination) pursuant to which Good Works Acquisition Corp. (GWAC), a special purpose acquisition company, consummated the merger of a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of GWAC with and into Cipher Mining Technologies Inc. (CMTI). Following the Business Combination, the combined company was named Cipher Mining Inc. (Cipher or the Company). The Company comprises all of GWACs and CMTIs operations. Our principal executive offices are located at 1 Vanderbilt Avenue, Floor 54, New York, NY 10017, and our telephone number is (332) 262-2300. Available Information Our website address is www.ciphermining.com. The contents of, or information accessible through, our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make our filings with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, as well as beneficial ownership filings available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC. Investors and others should note that the Company announces material financial and operational information to its investors using press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts, as well as its investor relations site at investors.ciphermining.com. The Company may also use its website as a distribution channel of material Company information. In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about the Company when you enroll your email address by visiting the Email Alerts option under the Investor Resources tab on investors.ciphermining.com. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on or available through our website, and you should not consider such information to be a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves significant risks, some of which are described below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report. The realization of any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects as well as our ability to accomplish our strategic objectives. In that event, the market price of our common stock or public warrants could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report to the Company, Cipher, Cipher Mining, we, us or our refers to Cipher Mining Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Operations We operate in a rapidly evolving industry and have an evolving business model and strategy, which includes our increasing focus on diversification into constructing and operating data centers for HPC companies, as well as bitcoin mining. To stay current with a digital assets industry that is rapidly evolving, we expect the services and products associated with them to evolve and, thus, that our business model may need to evolve. From time to time, we may modify aspects of our business model or engage in various strategic initiatives, which may be complimentary to our bitcoin mining operations. For further information on our strategy, see BusinessOur StrategyCommitment to growth, innovation and retaining flexibility to consider strategically adjacent opportunities to expand our business model. Our growth strategy includes exploring the expansion and diversification of our revenue sources into new markets. For example, we are increasing our focus on diversification into constructing and operating data centers for HPC companies. We cannot offer any assurance that these or any other modifications will be successful or will not result in harm to the business, damage our reputation and limit our growth. Such modifications may increase the complexity of our business and place significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions. Moreover, we may not be able to 10 manage growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth and adversely affect our operating results. Further, we cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully identify all emerging trends and growth opportunities within the digital assets industry, the HPC market or other markets we seek to expand into, and we may lose out on such opportunities. Additionally, any such changes to our business model or strategy could cause us to become subject to additional regulatory scrutiny and a number of additional requirements, including licensing and permit requirements. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. If we fail to grow our hashrate, we may be unable to compete, and our results of operations could suffer. Generally, a bitcoin miners chance of solving a block on the bitcoin blockchain and earning a bitcoin reward is a function of the miners hashrate (i.e., the amount of computing power devoted to supporting the Bitcoin blockchain), relative to the global network hashrate. As demand for bitcoin has increased, the global network hashrate has increased, and to the extent more adoption of bitcoin occurs, we would expect the demand for bitcoin would increase, drawing more mining companies into the industry and further increasing the global network hashrate. As new and more powerful miners are deployed, the global network hashrate will continue to increase, meaning a miners percentage of the total daily rewards will decline unless it deploys additional hashrate at pace with the growth of global hashrate. Accordingly, to compete in this highly competitive industry, we believe we will need to continue to acquire new miners, both to replace those lost to ordinary wear-and-tear and other damage, and to increase our hashrate to keep up with a growing global network hashrate. Furthermore, predicting the growth in network hashrate is extremely difficult. To the extent that hashrate increases but the price of bitcoin does not, the results of our bitcoin mining operations would suffer. The further development and acceptance of digital asset networks and other digital assets, which represent a new and rapidly changing industry, are subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to evaluate. The slowing or stopping of the development or acceptance of digital asset systems may adversely affect an investment in us. The use of cryptocurrencies to, among other things, buy and sell goods and services and complete transactions, is part of a new and rapidly evolving industry that employs cryptocurrency assets, including bitcoin, based upon a computer-generated mathematical or cryptographic protocol. Large-scale acceptance of bitcoin as a means of payment has not, and may never, occur. The growth of this industry in general, and the use of bitcoin in particular, is subject to a high degree of uncertainty, and the slowing or stopping of the development or acceptance of developing protocols may occur unpredictably. These factors include, but are not limited to: worldwide growth in the adoption and use of bitcoin as a medium to exchange; governmental and quasi-governmental regulation of bitcoin and its use, or restrictions on or regulation of access to and operation of the Bitcoin network or similar cryptocurrency systems; changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; the maintenance and development of the open-source software protocol of the Bitcoin network; the increased consolidation of contributors to the Bitcoin blockchain through bitcoin mining pools; the availability and popularity of other cryptocurrencies and other forms or methods of buying and selling goods and services, including new means of using fiat currencies; the use of the networks supporting cryptocurrencies for developing smart contracts and distributed applications; general economic conditions and the regulatory environment relating to cryptocurrencies; environmental or tax restrictions, excise taxes or other additional costs on the use of electricity to mine bitcoin; an increase in bitcoin transaction costs and any related reduction in the use of and demand for bitcoin; unpredictability or turbulence in the digital assets industry due to major events, such as failure of key institutions in the digital asset industry; the introduction of disruptive technologies, such as AI/HPC, that compete for large scale sites; and 11 negative consumer sentiment and perception of bitcoin specifically or cryptocurrencies generally. We may face several risks due to disruptions in the digital asset markets, including but not limited to, financing risk, risk of increased losses or impairments in our investments or other assets, risks of legal proceedings and government investigations, and risks from price declines or price volatility of digital assets. In the second half of 2022 and beginning of 2023, some of the well-known digital asset market participants, including Celsius Network LLC, et al., Voyager Digital Ltd., et al., Three Arrows Capital and Genesis Global Holdco, LLC, et al. declared bankruptcy, resulting in a loss of confidence in participants of the digital asset ecosystem and negative publicity surrounding digital assets more broadly. In November 2022, FTX Trading Ltd. (FTX), the third largest digital asset exchange by volume at the time, halted customer withdrawals and shortly thereafter, FTX and its subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy. In response to these and other similar events (including significant activity by various regulators regarding digital asset activities, such as enforcement actions, against a variety of digital asset entities, including Coinbase, Kraken and Binance), the digital asset markets, including the market for bitcoin specifically, experienced extreme price volatility and several other entities in the digital asset industry have been, and may continue to be, negatively affected, further undermining confidence in the digital assets markets and in bitcoin. These events have also negatively affected the liquidity of the digital asset markets as certain entities affiliated with FTX and platforms such as Coinbase, Kraken and Binance have engaged, or may continue to engage, in significant trading activity. If the liquidity of the digital asset markets continues to be negatively impacted by these events, digital asset prices (including the price of bitcoin) may continue to experience significant volatility and confidence in the digital asset markets may be further undermined. These events are continuing to develop and it is not possible to predict at this time all of the risks that they may pose to us, our service providers or on the digital asset industry as a whole. Although we had no direct exposure to any of the above-mentioned cryptocurrency companies (with the exception of Coinbase, which is discussed in There is a potential that, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by a custodian, bitcoin held in custody could be determined to be property of a bankruptcy estate and we could be considered a general unsecured creditor thereof, nor any material assets that may not be recovered or may otherwise be lost or misappropriated due to the bankruptcies, the failure or insolvency of large exchanges or other significant players in the digital asset space may cause the price of bitcoin to fall and decrease confidence in the ecosystem, which could adversely affect an investment in us. Any unfavorable global economic, business or political conditions, such as geopolitical tensions, military conflicts, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics, trade restrictions, tariffs, or similar events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by general conditions in the global economy and in the global financial markets, including conditions that are outside of our control. Geopolitical tensions, acts of terrorism, hostilities or the perception that hostilities may be imminent, military conflict and acts of war, including sanctions or other restrictive actions, by the United States and/or other countries, could adversely impact our business, supply chain or partners. Additionally, increasing tariffs or other restrictions could potentially cause a slowdown in global trade and increase cost of certain goods and adversely affect our operations, or could more directly affect our business by making the hardware or other products we need to build and operate our data centers more expensive. For example, the U.S. government has announced increased tariffs on China, and increased scrutiny over imports into the United States. The U.S. Customs and Border Protection agencys (CBP) also has broad discretion regarding products imported into the United States and has detained and/or seized imported miners, which has caused bitcoin miners to experience delays in receiving miners. We have also faced immaterial delays due to the CBPs detention and/or seizure of imported miners in the past and may again in the future. As the majority of miners are manufactured outside of the United States, such tariffs, trade restrictions, the threat of tariffs and trade restrictions, and increased focus over imports into the country could increase our costs and delay shipments needed for us to obtain new miners. These tariffs and any retaliatory action that may be takenhave introduced significant uncertainty into the market, leading to volatility in material prices and potential delays in project timelines, which could negatively affect our operations, strategic planning and financial forecasting. Events like these, particularly if they occur in regions of the world where we operate or source our mining equipment, could cause supply chain disruptions for some of our mining equipment components. Our operations are particularly vulnerable to potential interruptions in the supply of certain critical materials and metals, such as neon gas and palladium, which are used in semiconductor manufacturing. Any interruption to semiconductor chip supply could 12 significantly impact our ability to receive the mining equipment and timely roll-out of our operations. For example, an increase in geopolitical tensions in Asia, particularly in the Taiwan Strait, could significantly disrupt existing semiconductor chip manufacturing and increase the prospect of an interruption to the semiconductor chip supply across the world. The worlds largest semiconductor chip manufacturer is located in Taiwan and a large part of equipment and materials for our bitcoin miners, including ASIC chips, is manufactured in Taiwan. There is also a potential increase in risk for cyberattacks due to cyberwarfare in connection with ongoing military conflicts and geopolitical unrest. Other global conditions, including natural disasters, pandemics, regional conflicts, tariffs, recessions, inflationary issues and associated changes in monetary policy or commodity prices, foreign currency fluctuations, social, political and economic risks, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruptions or failures of our systems or other services that we use, including as a result of these types of events, a decision by one of our third-party service providers to close facilities that we use without adequate notice or to materially change the pricing or terms of their services, or other unanticipated problems with our systems or the third-party services that we use, could severely impact our ability to conduct our business operations, which could materially adversely affect our future operating results. Bitcoin mining activities are energy-intensive, which may restrict the geographic locations of miners and have a negative environmental impact. Government regulators may potentially restrict the ability of electricity suppliers to provide electricity to mining operations, such as ours, increase taxes on the purchase of electricity used to mine bitcoin, or even fully or partially ban mining operations. Mining bitcoin requires large amounts of electrical power, and electricity costs account for a significant portion of our overall costs. The availability and cost of electricity restrict the geographic locations of our mining activities. Any shortage of electricity supply or increase in electricity costs in any location where we operate may negatively impact the viability and expected economic return for bitcoin mining activities in that location. Our business model can only be successful if the costs, including electrical power costs, associated with bitcoin mining are lower than the price of bitcoin itself. As a result, our mining operations can only be successful if we can obtain sufficient electrical power for that site on a cost-effective basis, and our establishment of new mining data centers requires us to find sites where that is the case. Even if our electrical power costs do not increase, significant fluctuations in, and any prolonged periods of, low bitcoin prices may also cause our electrical supply to no longer be cost-effective. Furthermore, government scrutiny related to restrictions on bitcoin mining, other virtual currency mining and HPC data center facilities and demand for power capacity and energy consumption has in the past increased as such industries have become more widespread. The consumption of electricity by mining operators may also have a negative environmental impact, including contribution to climate change, which could set the public opinion against allowing the use of electricity for bitcoin mining activities or create a negative consumer sentiment and perception of bitcoin. State and federal regulators are increasingly focused on the energy and environmental impact of bitcoin mining activities. In March 2022, ERCOT, the organization that operates Texas electrical grid, started requiring large scale digital asset miners to apply for permission to connect to Texas power grid, and in April 2022, set up a task force committee to review the participation of large flexible loads, including bitcoin data centers, in the ERCOT market. The task force has been tasked to develop policy recommendations for consideration by ERCOT relating to network planning, markets, operations, and large load interconnection processes for large flexible loads in the ERCOT network. We experienced delays in the energization of the Odessa Facility due to ERCOTs new process, and may face additional delays and obligations in the future. At the federal level, legislation has been proposed by various Senators that would require certain agencies to analyze and report on topics around energy consumption in the digital asset industry, including the type and amount of energy used for cryptocurrency mining and the effects of digital asset mining on energy prices and baseload power levels. There have been calls by various members of Congress on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Department of Energy to establish rules that would require digital asset miners to report their energy usage and emissions. Government regulators in other countries have banned or substantially limited their local cryptocurrency mining activities, or may do so in the future, which could have a material effect on our competitiveness, by affecting supply chains for mining equipment or services and the price of bitcoin. For further details on our competition, see We operate in a highly competitive industry and we compete against companies that operate in less regulated environments as well as companies with greater financial and other resources, and our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively. 13 Additionally, our mining operations could be materially adversely affected by power outages and similar disruptions. Given the power requirements for our mining equipment, it would not be feasible to run this equipment on back-up power generators in the event of a government restriction on electricity or a power outage. Under some of our power arrangements, our power supply could be automatically reduced or curtailed by the market regulators or grid operators in cases of certain system disruptions or emergencies. If we are unable to receive adequate power supply and are forced to reduce or shut down our operations due to the availability or cost of electrical power, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. We have concentrated our operations and, thus, are particularly exposed to the performance of the Odessa Facility and changes in the regulatory environment, market conditions and natural disasters in Texas. We currently operate all of our data centers in Texas, and the Odessa Facility was responsible for mining approximately 88% of the bitcoin we produced in the year ended December 31, 2024. Consequently, our business operations and financial condition are particularly reliant on the performance of the Odessa Facility. If any critical equipment fails or there are delays in repairing equipment at the Odessa Facility, our business operations and financial results may be severely affected. Additionally, we are particularly exposed to changes in the regulatory environment, market conditions and natural disasters in this state. See We are vulnerable to severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including severe heat, winter weather events, earthquakes, fires, floods, hurricanes, as well as power outages and other industrial incidents or mechanical failures, which could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely affect our results of operations.Texas, through its regulatory and economic incentives, has encouraged bitcoin mining companies, like ours, to locate their operations in the state. As such, we face increased competition in Texas for suitable bitcoin mining data center sites and skilled workers. Additionally, if the regulatory and economic environment in Texas were to become less favorable to bitcoin mining companies or HPC, including by way of increased taxes, our heavy concentration of sites in Texas means our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on third parties, including electric grid operators, electric utility providers and manufacturers of certain critical and specialized equipment, and rely on components and raw materials that may be subject to price fluctuations or shortages, including ASIC chips that have been subject to periods of significant shortage and high innovation pace. We depend on third parties, including electric grid operators Oncor Electric Delivery Company LLC (Oncor) and American Electric Power Company, Inc. (AEP) , the Texas electric utility ERCOT, and manufacturers of critical components for our mining equipment and our data centers, which may be subject to price fluctuations or shortages. For example, our bitcoin mining operations require approval to operate from Oncor, AEP and ERCOT, which can be onerous to obtain. If Oncor, AEP or ERCOT delay in providing such approval, or change the requirements to operate bitcoin mining facilities, our business plans may be disrupted and our results of operations may be negatively affected. We are also reliant on critical equipment to supply power to our bitcoin mining operations at our data center facilities and we are exposed to the risk of disruptions or other failures in the overall global supply chain for bitcoin mining and related data center hardware. See also Any unfavorable global economic, business or political conditions, such as geopolitical tensions, military conflicts, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics, trade restrictions, tariffs, or similar events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. This is particularly relevant to the ASIC chip production since there is only a small number of fabrication facilities capable of such production, which increases our risk exposure to manufacturing disruptions or other supply chain failures, but it also applies to other infrastructure hardware necessary for operating our data centers, such as transformers, cables, and switch gear. If this critical equipment malfunctions or we have delays in the ability to fix such equipment, it could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Similarly, our operations are dependent on manufacturers of specialized equipment, such as miners. If we are too dependent on one or a few miner manufacturers, and there are any technological issues with that manufacturer, our operations could be negatively affected. We may be affected by price fluctuations in the wholesale and retail power markets. While our power arrangement contains fixed power prices, they also contain certain price adjustment mechanisms in case of certain events. Furthermore, a portion of our power arrangements includes merchant power prices, or power prices reflecting market movements. Market prices for power, generation capacity and ancillary services, are unpredictable. Depending upon the effectiveness of any price risk management activity undertaken by us, an increase in market prices for power, generation capacity, and ancillary services may adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. 14 Long- and short-term power prices may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: increases and decreases in generation capacity; changes in power transmission or fuel transportation capacity constraints or inefficiencies; volatile weather conditions, particularly unusually hot or mild summers or unusually cold or warm winters; technological shifts resulting in changes in the demand for power or in patterns of power usage, including the potential development of demand-side management tools, expansion and technological advancements in power storage capability and the development of new fuels or new technologies for the production or storage of power; federal and state power, market and environmental regulation and legislation; and changes in capacity prices and capacity markets. If we are unable to secure power supply at prices or on terms acceptable to us, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. We are vulnerable to severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including severe heat, winter weather events, earthquakes, fires, floods, hurricanes, as well as power outages and other industrial incidents or mechanical failures, which could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to the risks of severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including severe heat, winter weather events, earthquakes, fires, floods, hurricanes, as well as power outages and other industrial incidents, any of which could result in system failures, power supply disruptions and other interruptions that could harm our business. Since our business and operations are located in Texas, we are particularly vulnerable to disruptions affecting that state. Furthermore, the majority of our bitcoin production and all our revenues currently come from the Odessa Facility. Any significant system failures or power disruptions at that site could harm our business even if our other sites remain unaffected. See We have concentrated our operations and, thus, are particularly exposed to the performance of the Odessa Facility and changes in the regulatory environment, market conditions and natural disasters in Texas. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the losses that may result from interruptions in our operations as a result of system failures. A system outage or data loss, caused by it, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Bitcoin miners and other necessary hardware are subject to malfunction, technological obsolescence and physical degradation. Our miners are subject to malfunctions and normal wear and tear, and, at any point in time, a certain number of our miners are typically off-line for maintenance or repair. The physical degradation of our miners will require us to replace miners that are no longer functional. Because we use many units of the same miner models, if there is a model wide component malfunction whether in the hardware or the software that powers these miners, the percentage of offline miners could increase substantially, disrupting our operations. Any major miner malfunction out of the typical range of downtime for normal maintenance and repair could cause significant economic damage to us. A hardware replacement or upgrading process may require substantial capital investment and we may face challenges in doing so on a timely and cost-effective basis, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. We may also be impacted by disruptions in the supply chain for cryptocurrency hardware. During the course of implementing any such new technology into our operations, we may experience system interruptions and failures during such implementation. Furthermore, there can be no assurances that we will recognize, in a timely manner or at all, the benefits that we may expect as a result of our implementing new technology into our operations. As a result, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Any of the risks above could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. If we or our third-party providers fail to protect confidential information and/or experience cybersecurity incidents, such as cyber-attacks, data breaches, hacking attacks or malware, there may be disruptions to our operations, triggering 15 significant liability for us, which could harm our operating results and financial condition, and damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. As a publicly traded company, we and third parties that we rely upon face numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats and experience cyber-attacks, such as phishing and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems on a regular basis, and we anticipate continuing to be subject to such attempts. There is an ongoing risk that some or all of our bitcoin could be lost or stolen as a result of one or more of these security incidents. As we increase in size, and threat actors become increasingly sophisticated in using techniques and toolsincluding artificial intelligencethat circumvent security controls, evade detection and remove forensic evidence, we may become a more appealing target of hackers, malware, cyber-attacks or other security threats. We may also be unable to detect, investigate, remediate or recover from future attacks or incidents and eliminate all such vulnerability. For example, we provide cybersecurity training for employees, but we cannot guarantee that we will not be affected by further phishing attempts. Additionally, we may not be able to ensure the adequacy of our security measures or those employed by third parties, including our mining pool service providers, custodians or other counterparties. Our business operations and reputation depend on our ability to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data, digital assets and systems related to our business, personal information, proprietary technologies, processes and intellectual property (Confidential Information). We, our business and commercial partners rely extensively on third-party service providers information technology, computer systems, hardware, software, technology infrastructure and online sites and networks (collectively, IT Systems), including renewable energy infrastructure, cloud-based systems and on-premises servers (i.e., data centers), to record and process transactions and manage our operations, among other matters. We and our third-party service providers, partners, custodians and collaborators, may experience failures of, or disruptions to, IT systems and may be subject to attempted and successful security breaches or cybersecurity incidents. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious actors to disrupt the operations of the internet or undermine our own security efforts may be costly to implement and may not be successful. Such incidents, whether attributable to a vulnerability in our or third party IT Systems, or otherwise, could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation and materially harm our business. Remote and hybrid working arrangements at our company, and at many third-party providers, also increase cybersecurity risks due to the challenges associated with managing remote computing assets and security vulnerabilities that are present in many non-corporate and home networks. Additionally, any integration of artificial intelligence in our or any service providers or partners operations, products or services is expected to pose new or unknown cybersecurity risks and challenges. Any adverse impact to the availability, integrity or confidentiality of our IT Systems or Confidential Information, may adversely affect our business or our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, we face numerous and evolving cybersecurity risks, including from diverse threat actors, such as state-sponsored organizations, opportunist hackers and hacktivists, as well as through diverse attack vectors, such as social engineering/phishing, malware (including ransomware), malfeasance by insiders, human or technological error, or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses and other malicious software programs that could attack our IT Systems and Confidential Information. In the case of such a security breach, IT failure or other cybersecurity incident, we may suffer damage to our key systems and experience (i) interruption in our services, (ii) loss of ability to control or operate our equipment; (iii) misappropriation of personal data and (iv) loss of Confidential Information or other critical data that could interrupt our operations; each of which may adversely impact our reputation and brand by resulting in significant incident response, system restoration or remediation and future compliance costs and expose us to increased risks of governmental and regulatory investigations, enforcement actions, legal claims or proceedings (such as class actions), fines and penalties, and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. A data breach or security incident may also trigger mandatory data breach notification obligations under applicable privacy and data protection laws, which, if applicable, could lead to widespread negative publicity and a loss in confidence regarding the effectiveness of our data security measures. Furthermore, mitigating the risk of future attacks or IT Systems failures have resulted, and could in the future result, in additional operating and capital costs in systems technology, personnel, monitoring and other investments. In addition, insurers are currently reluctant to provide cybersecurity insurance for digital assets and cryptocurrency assets and we do not currently hold cybersecurity insurance. Therefore, in the event of any such actual or potential incidents, our costs and resources devoted and any impacted assets may not be partially or fully recoverable. To date, we have not experienced a material cybersecurity incident; however, we cannot guarantee we will not experience any incident in the future. There can also be no assurance that our cybersecurity risk management program and processes, including our policies, controls or procedures, will be fully implemented, complied with or effective in protecting our IT Systems and Confidential Information. The occurrence of any such event in the future could damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. 16 The value of bitcoin has historically been subject to wide swings, and our operating results may be adversely affected by our hedging activity. The market price of one bitcoin in our principal market ranged from approximately $38,501 to $108,389 during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, $16,490 to $45,000 during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. While bitcoin prices are determined primarily using data from various exchanges, over-the-counter markets and derivative platforms, they have historically been volatile and are impacted by a variety of factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the worldwide growth in the adoption and use of bitcoins, the maintenance and development of the software protocol of the Bitcoin network, changes in consumer demographics and public tastes, fraudulent or illegitimate actors, real or perceived scarcity, and political, economic, regulatory or other conditions. Furthermore, pricing may be the result of, and may continue to result in, speculation regarding future appreciation in the value of bitcoin, or our share price, making prices more volatile. In the United States, the Trump administration has issued an executive order generally asserting the importance of the digital assets industry to the U.S. economy, and instructing a working group consisting of various agency heads to consider the implementation of a strategic reserve of bitcoin and other digital assets.If any such strategic reserve were to be put in place, transactions by such strategic reserve could result in increased volatility and price swings as market actors may place additional significance on trading by the U.S. government. From time to time, we may also hedge some portion of the value of our bitcoin in inventory or some portion of the value of our expected forward production, which may limit our exposure to substantial increases in the price of bitcoin. Given the volatility of bitcoin price, there is also a risk that we execute hedges at suboptimal levels thereby foregoing some amount of price appreciation that we otherwise would have enjoyed without the hedges in place. Currently, we do not use a formula or specific methodology to determine whether or when we will hedge or sell bitcoin that we hold, or the number of bitcoins we will hedge or sell. Rather, decisions to hold, hedge or sell bitcoins are currently determined by management by analyzing forecasts and monitoring the market in real time. Such decisions, however well-informed, may result in untimely sales and even losses, adversely affecting an investment in us. There is a potential that, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by a custodian, bitcoin held in custody could be determined to be property of a bankruptcy estate and we could be considered a general unsecured creditor thereof. All of the bitcoin we hold is held in either cold or hot storage at our custodians. We primarily use Coinbase Prime, but we also use Anchorage Digital Bank N.A. and Fidelity Digital Assets Services. We intend to periodically re-evaluate this and, in the future, we may also decide to use additional or other custodians. The treatment of bitcoins held by custodians that file for bankruptcy protection is uncharted territory in U.S. Bankruptcy law. We cannot say with certainty whether our bitcoin held in custody at one of our custodians, or another custodian in the future, should it declare bankruptcy, would be treated as property of a bankruptcy estate and, accordingly, whether the owner of that bitcoin would be treated as a general unsecured creditor with respect to our bitcoin held in custody at that custodian. If we are treated as a general unsecured creditor, we may not be able to recover our bitcoin in the event of a bankruptcy of any of our custodians or any other custodian we may use in the future. The Bitcoin we hold is not insured and not subject to FDIC or SIPC protections. The bitcoin we hold is not insured. Therefore, any loss that we may suffer with respect to our bitcoin is not covered by insurance and no person may be liable in damages for such loss, which could adversely affect our operations. We do not hold our bitcoin with a banking institution or a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) and, therefore, our bitcoin is not subject to the protections enjoyed by depositors with FDIC or SIPC member institutions. Our success and future growth, to a significant degree, depends on the skills and services of our management team. The loss of any of our management team, our inability to execute an effective succession plan, or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, could adversely affect our business. Our success and future growth, to a significant degree, depends on the skills and services of our management team. If our management team, including any new hires that we may make, fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis, our business could be significantly harmed. Furthermore, if we fail to execute an effective contingency or succession plan with the loss of any member of management, the loss of such management personnel may significantly disrupt our business. Furthermore, the loss of key members of our management or other employees could inhibit our growth prospects. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key management and operating 17 personnel. As we continue to develop and expand our operations, we may require personnel with different skills and experiences, who have a sound understanding of our business and the cryptocurrency industry, for example, specialists in power contract negotiations and management, as well as data center specialists. As cryptocurrency, and specifically bitcoin, mining, is a new and developing field, the market for highly qualified personnel in this industry is particularly competitive and we may be unable to attract such personnel. We also compete for talent in other fields, such as finance and traditional data center construction. If we are unable to attract such personnel, or retain current talent, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. We may experience difficulties in effectively managing our growth and expanding our operations. Our ability to manage our growth requires us to build upon and to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, compliance programs and reporting systems. We may not be able to implement improvements in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing controls, programs, systems and procedures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. From time to time, we may consider potential acquisitions, joint venture or other investment opportunities. We cannot offer any assurance that acquisitions of businesses or assets, development of new sites, or entering into strategic alliances or joint ventures will be successful. We may not be able to find suitable partners or acquisition candidates and may not be able to complete such transactions on favorable terms, if at all. If we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into the existing business and could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. To finance any acquisitions or joint ventures, we may choose to issue shares of common stock, preferred stock, debt or a combination of debt and equity as consideration, which could significantly dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders or provide rights to such preferred stockholders in priority over our common stockholders. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other companies or fund a joint venture project using stock as consideration. Additionally, rapid growth in our business may place a strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. We may not grow as we expect, if we fail to manage our growth effectively or to develop and expand our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. See Risks Related to our Common Stock and WarrantsWe have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not timely remediated, may adversely affect the accuracy and reliability of our future financial statements, and our reputation, business and the price of our common stock, as well as may lead to a loss of investor confidence in us. If we fail to maintain and enhance our brand and reputation, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We believe our brand and reputation, particularly in the cryptocurrency ecosystem, is an important factor in the success and development of our business. As part of our strategy, we seek to structure our relationships with our equipment and service providers, power suppliers and other potential partners as long-term relationships. See BusinessOur StrategyEstablish our cost leadership and maintain strong relationships with our industry partners. Thus, maintaining, protecting, and enhancing our reputation is also important to our development plans, operational stability, and relationships with our power suppliers, equipment and service providers and other counterparties. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of our brand and reputation may increase as competition further intensifies. Our brand and reputation could be harmed if we fail to perform under our agreements or if our public image were to be tarnished by negative publicity, unexpected events or actions by third parties. Furthermore, Bitfury Group Limited and its affiliates (collectively, the Bitfury Group) is a significant shareholder. If any member of the Bitfury Group is subject to negative news or extensive publicity, this, even if untrue, may cause our counterparties to lose confidence in us. Any unfavorable publicity about us, including our technology, our personnel, our significant shareholder could have an adverse effect on the engagement of our partners and suppliers and may result in our failure to maintain or expand our business and successfully execute our business model. Failure to keep up with evolving trends and shareholder expectations relating to ESG businesses or reporting could adversely impact our reputation, share price and access to and cost of capital. Certain institutional investors, investor advocacy groups, investment funds, creditors and other influential financial markets participants have become increasingly focused on companies ESG practices in evaluating their investments and business relationships, including the impact of bitcoin mining operations on the environment. Certain 18 organizations also provide ESG ratings, scores and benchmarking studies that assess companies ESG practices. Although there are currently no universal standards for such ratings, scores or benchmarking studies, they are used by some investors to inform their investment and voting decisions. It is possible that our shareholders or organizations that report on, rate or score ESG practices will not be satisfied with our ESG strategy or performance. However, increasingly, different stakeholder groups have divergent views on ESG matters, which increases the risk that any action or lack thereof with respect to ESG matters will be perceived negatively by at least some stakeholders and adversely impact our reputation and business. Unfavorable press about, or ratings or assessments of, our ESG strategies or practices, regardless of whether or not we comply with applicable legal requirements, regulations and executive orders, may lead to negative investor sentiment toward us, which could have a negative impact on our stock price and our access to and cost of capital. Our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, operating results, and financial condition. Our ability to comply with applicable complex and evolving laws, regulations, and rules is largely dependent on the maintenance of our compliance, audit, and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. While we devote significant resources to develop policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks, we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective against all types of risks, including unidentified or unanticipated risks, or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed in all market environments. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or other intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position could be harmed. Our ability to conduct our business in a profitable manner relies in part on our proprietary methods and designs, which we primarily protect as trade secrets. We rely upon trade secret and other intellectual property laws, physical and technological security measures and contractual commitments to protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights, including entering into non-disclosure agreements with employees, consultants and third parties with access to our trade secrets. However, such measures may not provide adequate protection and the value of our trade secrets could be lost through misappropriation or breach of our confidentiality agreements. For example, an employee with authorized access may misappropriate our trade secrets and provide them to a competitor, and the recourse we take against such misconduct may not provide an adequate remedy to protect our interests fully, because enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret can be difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Thus, if any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed or misappropriated, our competitive position could be harmed. In addition to the risk of misappropriation and unauthorized disclosure, our competitors may develop similar or better methods independently in a manner that could prevent legal recourse by us, which could result in costly process redesign efforts or other competitive harm. Furthermore, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed, diluted, disclosed or misappropriated and adequate legal recourse may be unavailable. Thus, there can be no assurance that our trade secrets or other intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against competitors operating their business in a manner that is substantially similar to us. Third parties may claim that we are infringing upon, misappropriating or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights, which may prevent or inhibit our operations and cause us to suffer significant litigation expense even if these claims have no merit. Our commercial success depends on our ability to operate without undue cost and distraction of claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. However, third parties may own patents (or have pending patent applications that later result in patents) that our operations may infringe. In addition, third parties may purchase patents for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract license fees via settlements from us. There also could be patents that we believe we do not infringe, but that we may ultimately be found to infringe. Further, because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that its operations infringe. Finally, third parties could accuse us of misappropriating their trade secrets. Any claims of patent infringement or trade secret misappropriation, even claims without merit, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and could require us to divert resources away from operations. In addition, if any third party has a meritorious or successful claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, we may be forced to redesign our operations or secure a license from such third parties, which may be costly or impractical. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions that may cause a material adverse effect to our business and operations, if we cannot license or develop an alternative for any infringing 19 aspect of its business, and may result in a material loss in revenue, which could adversely affect the trading price of our shares and harm our investors. We and our third-party service providers, including mining pool service providers, custodians or other counterparties, may fail to adequately maintain the confidentiality, integrity or availability of the data we hold or detect any related threats, which could disrupt our normal business operations and our financial performance and adversely affect our business. Our business operations and reputation depend on our ability to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data, digital assets and systems related to our business, customers, proprietary technologies, processes and intellectual property. We and our business and commercial partners, such as mining pools and other third parties with which we interact, rely extensively on third-party service providers information technology (IT) systems, including renewable energy infrastructure, cloud-based systems and on-premises servers (i.e., data centers), to record and process transactions and manage our operations, among other matters. We and our third-party service providers, partners and collaborators, may in the future experience failures of, or disruptions to, IT systems and may be subject to attempted and successful security breaches or data security incidents. Security breaches or data security incidents experienced by us or our third-party service providers, manufacturers, joint collaborators, or other business or commercial partners, can vary in scope and intent from economically-driven attacks to malicious attacks targeting our key operating systems with the intent to disrupt, disable or otherwise cripple our operations. This can include any combination of phishing attacks, malware, ransomware attacks, insider threats or viruses targeted at our key systems and IT systems as well as those of our third-party service providers. In addition, certain types of attacks could harm us even if our systems are left undisturbed. For example, certain threats are designed to remain dormant or undetectable, sometimes for extended periods of time, or until launched against a target, and we may not be able to implement adequate preventative measures. Unauthorized parties have attempted, and we expect that they will continue to attempt, to gain access to our systems and facilities, as well as those of our partners and third-party service providers, through various means. A successful security breach or security incident may target us directly, or indirectly target or impact us through our third-party service providers, manufacturers, joint collaborators, or other business or commercial partners. A security breach or other security incident at a third-party service providers location or ours, or within a third-party service providers systems or ours, could affect our control over personal or confidential information or negatively impact our operations and ability to earn revenue. The inadvertent disclosure of or unauthorized access to IT systems, networks and data, including personal information, confidential information and proprietary information, may adversely affect our business or our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, undiscovered vulnerabilities in our equipment or services could expose us to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses and other malicious software programs that could attack our equipment services and business. In the case of such a security breach, security incident or other IT failure, we may suffer damage to our key systems and experience (i) interruption in our services, (ii) loss of ability to control or operate our equipment; (iii) misappropriation of personal data and (iv) loss of critical data that could interrupt our operations, which may adversely impact our reputation and brand and expose us to increased risks of governmental and regulatory investigation and enforcement actions, private litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. A security breach may also trigger mandatory data breach notification obligations under applicable privacy and data protection laws, which, if applicable, could lead to widespread negative publicity and a loss in confidence regarding the effectiveness of our data security measures. Furthermore, mitigating the risk of future attacks or IT systems failures have resulted, and could in the future result, in additional operating and capital costs in systems technology, personnel, monitoring and other investments. In addition, insurers are currently reluctant to provide cybersecurity insurance for digital assets and cryptocurrency assets and we do not currently hold cybersecurity insurance. Therefore, in the event of any such actual or potential incidents, our costs and resources devoted and any impacted assets may not be partially or fully recoverable. Most of our sensitive and valuable data, including digital assets, are stored with third-party custodians and service providers. Therefore, we rely on the digital asset community to optimize and protect sensitive and valuable data and identify vulnerabilities. There can be no guarantee that these measures and the work of the digital asset developer community will identify all vulnerabilities, errors and defects, or will resolve all vulnerabilities, errors and defects, prior to a malicious actor being able to utilize them. Any actual or perceived data security breach at any of those third-party custodians or service providers could lead to theft or irretrievable loss of our fiat currencies or digital assets, which may or may not be covered by insurance maintained by us or our third-party custodians or service providers. 20 We operate in a highly competitive industry and we compete against companies that operate in less regulated environments as well as companies with greater financial and other resources, and our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively. The cryptocurrency ecosystem is highly innovative, rapidly evolving, and characterized by competition, experimentation, changing customer needs, frequent introductions of new products and services, and subject to uncertain and evolving industry and regulatory requirements. In the future, we expect competition to further intensify with existing and new competitors, within and outside the United States, which may have various advantages over us, such as: greater mining capabilities; more timely introduction or adoption of new technologies; preferred relationships with suppliers of mining machines and other equipment; access to more competitively priced power; greater financial resources to make acquisitions; lower labor, compliance, risk mitigation and research and development costs; larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios; greater number of applicable licenses or similar authorizations; established core business models outside of the mining or trading of digital assets, allowing them to operate on lesser margins or at a loss; operations in certain jurisdictions with lower compliance costs and greater flexibility to explore new product offerings; and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. The developments in the digital assets industry, including several high-profile bankruptcies and escalation of regulatory oversight, could potentially lead to increase in the M&A activity in the industry among our competition and increasing consolidation. This could significantly alter the competitive landscape in which we operate and lead to increasing competition in cryptocurrency mining as well as access to capital and other opportunities. For further details on the risks related to our industry development, see The further development and acceptance of digital asset networks and other digital assets, which represent a new and rapidly changing industry, are subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to evaluate. The slowing or stopping of the development or acceptance of digital asset systems may adversely affect an investment in us. and Risks Related to CryptocurrencyWe may temporarily store our bitcoin on digital asset trading platforms which could subject our bitcoin to the risk of loss or access, especially in light of previous failures of major market participants. Such failures may also result in a reduction in the price of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies and can adversely affect an investment in us. Additionally, regulatory actions, as well as any other political developments in the regions with active cryptocurrency trading or mining, may increase our domestic competition as some of those cryptocurrency miners or new entrants in this market may move their cryptocurrency mining operations or establishing new operations in the United States. See Risks Related to Regulatory FrameworkRegulatory changes or actions may restrict the use of bitcoin in a manner that adversely affects our business, prospects or operations and Any unfavorable global economic, business or political conditions, such as geopolitical tensions, military conflicts, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics, trade restrictions, tariffs,or similar events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully against present or future competitors. We may not have the resources to compete with larger competitors and, consequently, may experience great difficulties in expanding and improving our operations to remain competitive. For details on our current competitive landscape, see BusinessCompetition. Competition from existing and future competitors could result in our inability to secure acquisitions and partnerships that we may need to expand our business in the future. This competition from other entities with greater resources, experience and reputations may result in our failure to maintain or expand our business, as we may never be able to successfully execute our business model. Furthermore, we anticipate encountering new competition if we expand our operations to new locations geographically and into wider applications of blockchain, cryptocurrency mining and data 21 center operations. If we are unable to expand and remain competitive, or maintain our relative share of the Bitcoin network total hashrate, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our mining costs may be greater than our mining revenues, which could seriously harm our business and adversely impact an investment in us. Mining operations are costly and our expenses may increase in the future. Increases in mining expenses may not be offset by corresponding increases in revenue, which is primarily driven by the value of bitcoin mined. Our expenses may become greater than we anticipate, and our investments to make our business more cost-efficient may not succeed. Further, even if our expenses remain the same or decline, our revenues may not exceed our expenses to the extent the price of bitcoin continues to decrease without a corresponding decrease in bitcoin network difficulty. Increases in our costs without corresponding increases in our revenue would adversely affect our profitability and could seriously harm our business and an investment in us. Our automated processes with respect to curtailment may adversely affect our operations. Our data centers are subject to curtailment, meaning we automatically turn the miners on and off depending on wind conditions, power prices, bitcoin prices and other factors. Additionally, at the Odessa Facility, we must curtail in certain instances when our power provider instructs us to do so. If we fail to do so in a timely manner, we could incur potentially significant increased costs. Thus, if we are unable to accurately monitor power prices and bitcoin economic data, or timely respond to a curtailment demand, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Our limited insurance protection exposes us and our shareholders to the risk of loss of our bitcoin for which no person is liable. We do not currently maintain our own insurance coverage for our bitcoin holdings, which are held in custody by our custodians. Therefore, a loss may be suffered with respect to our bitcoin that is not covered by insurance and for which no person is liable in damages, which could adversely affect our operations and, consequently, an investment in us. Our custodians maintain a certain insurance coverage of such types and amounts as they assert to be commercially reasonable for their custodial services provided under our custody agreements with them, including certain commercial crime insurance of limited aggregate principal amount which covers losses stemming from fraud, security breach, hack and asset theft. However, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect us against all losses of our bitcoin holdings held in custody with our custodians, whether or not stemming from security breaches, cyberattacks or other types of unlawful activity. Therefore, a loss may be suffered with respect to our bitcoin that is not covered by insurance and for which no person is liable in damages, which could adversely affect our operations and, consequently, an investment in us. We may need to raise additional capital, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. From time to time, we may require additional capital to expand our operations or to respond to technological advancements, competitive dynamics or technologies, customer demands, business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances. Accordingly, we may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for the above-mentioned or other reasons. We may not be able to timely secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain additional funds may also be affected by economic uncertainty and any disruptions in credit or capital markets as a result of geopolitical instability. See Any unfavorable global economic, business or political conditions, such as geopolitical tensions, military conflicts, acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics, trade restrictions, tariffs, orsimilar events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, if we raise additional funds through equity financing, our existing stockholders could experience significant dilution. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could also involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. 22 The storage and custody of our bitcoin assets are subject to cybersecurity breaches, hacking, fraud risks and restriction on access, and we may not have adequate sources of recovery if our bitcoin assets are lost, stolen or destroyed. There is a risk that some or all of our bitcoin assets could be subject to cybersecurity breaches, hacking, fraud risks and restriction on access, and we may not have adequate sources of recovery if our bitcoin assets are lost, stolen or destroyed. Hackers or malicious actors may launch attacks to steal or compromise cryptocurrencies, such as by attacking the cryptocurrency network source code, exchanges, miners, third-party platforms, cold and hot storage locations or software, or by other means. We primarily use Coinbase Prime as our custodian to store our bitcoin, but also use other custodians to reduce the risk of loss. We rely on our custodians security systems to safeguard our bitcoin holdings from theft, loss, destruction or other issues relating to hackers and technological attack. There can be no assurance that these custody services are more secure than self-storage or other alternatives. Human error and the constantly evolving state of cybercrime and hacking techniques may render present security protocols and procedures ineffective in ways which we cannot predict. Additionally, if our bitcoin holdings are lost, stolen or destroyed under circumstances rendering a party, such as our custodians, liable to us, the responsible party may not have the financial resources sufficient to satisfy our claim. For example, as to a particular event of loss, the only source of recovery for us might be limited, to the extent identifiable, to other responsible third parties (e.g., a thief or terrorist), any of which may not have the financial resources (including liability insurance coverage) to satisfy a valid claim of ours. While our custodians maintain insurance coverage of such types and amounts as they assert to be commercially reasonable for their custodial services provided under our custody agreements with them, including certain commercial crime insurance of limited aggregate principal amount which covers losses stemming from fraud, security breach, hack and asset theft, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect us against all losses of bitcoin holdings held in custody with the custodian, whether or not stemming from security breaches, cyberattacks or other types of unlawful activity. Cryptocurrency transactions and accounts are also not insured by any type of government program and cryptocurrency transactions generally are permanent by design of the networks. Certain features of cryptocurrency networks, such as decentralization, the open source protocols, and the reliance on peer-to-peer connectivity, may increase the risk of fraud or cyber-attack by potentially reducing the likelihood of a coordinated response. Cryptocurrencies have suffered from hacking incidents and several cryptocurrency exchanges and miners have reported large cryptocurrency losses, which highlight concerns over the security of cryptocurrencies and in turn affect the demand and the market price of cryptocurrencies. The price of bitcoin can be adversely affected by hacking incidents. The risk of damage to or loss of our bitcoin assets cannot be wholly eliminated. If our security procedures and protocols, or those of Coinbase Prime or other trading or custody platforms we use, are ineffective and our cryptocurrency assets are compromised by cybercriminals, we may not have adequate recourse to recover our losses stemming from such compromise. A security breach could also harm our reputation. A resulting perception that our measures do not adequately protect our bitcoin assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. The emergence or growth of other digital assets, including those with significant private or public sector backing, could have a negative impact on the price of bitcoin and adversely affect our business. Our business strategy is substantially dependent on the market price of bitcoin. As of the date of this Annual Report, bitcoin was the largest digital asset by market capitalization and had the largest user base and largest combined mining power. Despite this first to market advantage, there are over 10,000 alternative digital assets tracked by CoinMarketCap.com. Many entities, including consortiums and financial institutions are also researching and investing resources into private or permissioned blockchain platforms or digital currencies that do not use proof-of-work mining like the Bitcoin network. Additionally, central banks in some countries have started to introduce digital forms of legal tender. For example, Chinas central bank digital currency (CBDC) project was made available to consumers in January 2022, and governments from Russia to the European Union have been discussing potential creation of new digital currencies. Whether or not they incorporate blockchain or similar technology, CBDCs, as legal tender in the issuing jurisdiction, could have an advantage in competing with, or replacing, bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies as a medium of exchange or store of value. As a result, the value of bitcoin could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. 23 Risks Related to Regulatory Framework Regulatory changes or actions may restrict the use of bitcoin in a manner that adversely affects our business, prospects or operations. Bitcoin and other forms of digital assets have been the source of much regulatory consternation, resulting in differing definitional outcomes without a single unifying statement. Bitcoin and other digital assets are viewed differently by different regulatory and standards setting organizations globally as well as in the United States on the federal and state levels. For example, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) consider a digital asset as currency or an asset or property. Further, the IRS applies general tax principles that apply to property transactions to transactions involving virtual currency. The CFTC classifies bitcoin as a commodity. The SEC has also publicly stated that it considers bitcoin to be a commodity, but that some digital assets should be categorized as securities. How a digital asset is characterized by a regulator impacts the rules that apply to activities related to that digital asset. As digital assets have grown in both popularity and market size, governments around the world have reacted differently. Certain governments have deemed digital assets illegal or have severely curtailed the use of digital assets by prohibiting the acceptance of payment in bitcoin and other digital assets for consumer transactions and barring banking institutions from accepting deposits of digital assets. Other nations, however, allow digital assets to be used and traded without restriction. In some jurisdictions, such as in the U.S., digital assets are subject to extensive, and in some cases overlapping, unclear and evolving regulatory requirements. There is a risk that relevant authorities in any jurisdiction may impose more onerous regulation on bitcoin, for example banning its use, regulating its operation, or otherwise changing its regulatory treatment. Such changes may introduce a cost of compliance, or have a material impact on our business model, and therefore our financial performance and shareholder returns. If the use of bitcoin is made illegal in jurisdictions where bitcoin is currently traded in heavy volumes, the available market for bitcoin may contract. For example, on September 24, 2021, the Peoples Bank of China announced that all activities involving digital assets in mainland China are illegal, which corresponded with a significant decrease in the price of bitcoin. If another government with considerable economic power were to ban digital assets or related activities, this could have further impact on the price of bitcoin. As a result, the markets and opportunities discussed herein may not reflect the markets and opportunities available to us in the future. On January 23, 2025, the Trump Administration signed an executive order titled Strengthening American Leadership in Digital Financial Technology, which introduces new dynamics to the regulatory landscape. This order emphasizes the importance of the digital asset industry in U.S. innovation and economic development, outlining policies to support the growth and use of digital assets and blockchain technology. Key policies outlined in the executive order include ensuring access to open public blockchain networks for lawful purposes, promoting the U.S. dollar's sovereignty through lawful dollar-backed stablecoins, and providing regulatory clarity with technology-neutral regulations. The establishment of a new working group within the National Economic Council to propose a federal regulatory framework for digital assets could lead to significant changes in market structure, oversight, consumer protection, and risk management. The evolving regulatory environment may pose challenges to our operations, particularly if new regulations introduce additional compliance costs or restrict certain activities. Digital asset trading platforms may also be subject to increased regulation and there is a risk that increased compliance costs are passed through to users, including us, as we exchange bitcoin earned through our mining activities. There is a risk that a lack of stability in the bitcoin exchange market and the closure or temporary shutdown of bitcoin exchanges due to fraud, business failure, hackers or malware, or government-mandated restrictions may reduce confidence in the Bitcoin network and result in greater volatility in or suppression of bitcoins value and consequently have an adverse impact on our operations and financial performance. Although bitcoin is not currently treated as a security by the SEC, the exchanges on which bitcoin is traded typically provide trading services with respect to numerous other cryptocurrencies and digital assets, some of which may be deemed to be securities by the SEC, and some of them are currently under investigation by other regulators as well. If any of these exchanges are shut down due to regulatory action, it could become more difficult to us and for other holders of bitcoin to monetize our holdings. This could also result in a decrease in the overall price of bitcoin. In the U.S., the Federal Reserve Board, U.S. Congress and certain U.S. agencies (e.g., the CTFC, the SEC, FinCEN) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation) have begun to examine the operations of the Bitcoin network, bitcoin users and the bitcoin exchange market, in light of the FTX and other bankruptcies. Increasing regulation and regulatory scrutiny may result in new costs for us and our management may have to devote increased time and attention to regulatory matters or change aspects of our business. Increased regulation may also result in limitations on the use cases of bitcoin. In addition, regulatory developments may require us to comply with certain regulatory regimes. For example, to the extent that our activities cause us to be deemed a money service business under the regulations promulgated by FinCEN under 24 the authority of the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), we may be required to comply with FinCEN regulations, including those that would mandate us to implement certain anti-money laundering programs, make certain reports to FinCEN and maintain certain records. See also If regulatory changes or interpretations of our activities require our registration as a money services business (MSB) under the regulations promulgated by FinCEN under the authority of the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, or otherwise under state laws, we may incur significant compliance costs, which could be substantial or cost- prohibitive. If we become subject to these regulations, our costs in complying with them may have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. Any of the foregoing or similar regulatory activity in the future could reduce the availability, or increase the cost, including through taxation, of, electricity in the geographic locations in which our operating facilities are located, or could otherwise adversely impact our business. If we are forced to reduce our operations due to the availability or cost of electrical power, or restrictions on bitcoin mining activities, this will have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, in the future, foreign governments may decide to subsidize or in some other way support certain large-scale bitcoin mining projects, thus adding hashrate to the overall network. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on the amount of bitcoin that we may be able to mine as well as the value of bitcoin and, consequently, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We cannot be certain as to how future regulatory developments will impact the treatment of bitcoin under the law, and ongoing and future regulation and regulatory actions could significantly restrict or eliminate the market for or uses of bitcoin and materially and adversely impact our business. If we fail to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may seek to cease certain of our operations or be subjected to fines, penalties and other governmental action. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern or to pursue our business model at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any digital assets we hold or expect to acquire for our own account. If we were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the 1940 Act), applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. An issuer will generally be deemed to be an investment company for purposes of the 1940 Act if: it is an orthodox investment company because it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or it is an inadvertent investment company because, absent an applicable exemption, it owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. We believe that we are not and will not be primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, and we do not hold ourselves out as being engaged in those activities. We intend to hold ourselves out as a cryptocurrency mining business, specializing in bitcoin. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are an orthodox investment company as described in the first bullet point above. If certain cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin, were to be deemed securities, and consequently, investment securities by the SEC, we intend to continue to operate our business in a manner such that we would not be deemed an inadvertent investment company. However, it is possible that we would be deemed an inadvertent investment company in such event, despite our intention not to operate as an investment company. If we were to be deemed an inadvertent investment company, we may seek to rely on Rule 3a-2 under the 1940 Act, which allows an inadvertent investment company a grace period of one year from the earlier of (a) the date on which the issuer owns securities and/or cash having a value exceeding 50% of the issuers total assets on either a consolidated or unconsolidated basis or (b) the date on which the issuer owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of such issuers total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. We are putting in place policies that we expect will work to keep the investment securities held by us at less than 40% of our total assets, which may include acquiring assets with our cash, liquidating our investment securities or seeking no-action relief or exemptive relief from the SEC if we are unable to acquire sufficient assets or liquidate sufficient investment securities in a timely manner. As Rule 3a-2 is available to an issuer no more than once every three years, and assuming no other exclusion were available to us, we would have to keep within the 40% limit for at least three years after we cease being an inadvertent investment company. This may limit our ability to make certain investments or 25 enter into joint ventures that could otherwise have a positive impact on our earnings. In any event, we do not intend to become an investment company engaged in the business of investing and trading securities. Finally, we believe we are not an investment company under Section 3(b)(1) of the 1940 Act because we are primarily engaged in a non-investment company business. The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to continue to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. However, if anything were to happen that would cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, requirements imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among us and our senior management team and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If regulatory changes or interpretations of our activities require our registration as a money services business (MSB) under the regulations promulgated by FinCEN under the authority of the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, or otherwise under state laws, we may incur significant compliance costs, which could be substantial or cost- prohibitive. If we become subject to these regulations, our costs in complying with them may have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. FinCEN regulates providers of certain services with respect to convertible virtual currency, including bitcoin. Businesses engaged in the transfer of convertible virtual currencies are subject to registration and licensure requirements at the U.S. federal level and also under U.S. state laws. While FinCEN has issued guidance that cryptocurrency mining, without engagement in other activities, does not require registration and licensure with FinCEN, this could be subject to change as FinCEN and other regulatory agencies continue their scrutiny of the Bitcoin network and digital assets generally. To the extent that our business activities cause us to be deemed a money services business under the regulations promulgated by FinCEN under the authority of the BSA, we may be required to comply with FinCEN regulations, including those that would mandate us to implement anti-money laundering programs, make certain reports to FinCEN and maintain certain records. To the extent that our activities would cause us to be deemed a money transmitter or equivalent designation under state law in any state in which we may operate, we may be required to seek a license or otherwise register with a state regulator and comply with state regulations that may include the implementation of anti-money laundering programs, including implementing a know-your-counterparty program and transaction monitoring, maintenance of certain records and other operational requirements. Such additional federal or state regulatory obligations may cause us to incur extraordinary expenses. Furthermore, we may not be capable of complying with certain federal or state regulatory obligations applicable to money services businesses and money transmitters, such as monitoring transactions and blocking transactions, because of the nature of the Bitcoin blockchain. If it is deemed to be subject to and determine not to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may act to dissolve and liquidate. The application of the Commodity Exchange Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission to our business is unclear and is subject to change in a manner that is difficult to predict. To the extent we are deemed to be or subsequently become subject to regulation by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission in connection with our business activities, we may incur additional regulatory obligations and compliance costs, which may be significant. The CFTC has stated, and judicial decisions involving CFTC enforcement actions have confirmed, that bitcoin and other digital assets fall within the definition of a commodity under the U.S. Commodities Exchange Act of 1936, as amended (the CEA), and the regulations promulgated by the CFTC thereunder (CFTC Rules). As a result, the CFTC has general enforcement authority to police against manipulation and fraud in the spot markets for bitcoin and other digital assets. From time to time, manipulation, fraud and other forms of improper trading by other participants involved in the markets for bitcoin and other digital assets have resulted in, and may in the future result in, CFTC investigations, inquiries, enforcement action, and similar actions by other regulators, government agencies and civil litigation. Such investigations, inquiries, enforcement actions and litigation may cause negative publicity for bitcoin and other digital assets, which could adversely impact mining profitability. 26 In addition to the CFTCs general enforcement authority to police against manipulation and fraud in spot markets for bitcoin and other digital assets, the CFTC has regulatory and supervisory authority with respect to commodity futures, options, and/or swaps (Commodity Interests) and certain transactions in commodities offered to retail purchasers on a leveraged, margined, or financed basis. Although we do not currently engage in such transactions, changes in our activities, the CEA, CFTC Rules, or the interpretations and guidance of the CFTC may subject us to additional regulatory requirements, licenses and approvals which could result in significant increased compliance and operational costs. Furthermore, trusts, syndicates and other collective investment vehicles operated for the purpose of trading in Commodity Interests may be subject to regulation and oversight by the CFTC and the National Futures Association (NFA) as commodity pools. If our mining activities or transactions in bitcoin and other digital assets were deemed by the CFTC to involve Commodity Interests and the operation of a commodity pool for the Companys shareholders, we could be subject to regulation as a commodity pool operator and required to register as such. Such additional registrations may result in increased expenses, thereby materially and adversely impacting an investment in our ordinary shares. If we determine it is not practicable to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may seek to cease certain of our operations. Any such action may adversely affect an investment in our business. While we are not aware of any provision of the CEA or CFTC rules currently applicable to the mining of bitcoin and other digital assets, this is subject to change. We cannot be certain how future changes in legislation, regulatory developments, or changes in CFTC interpretations and policy may impact the treatment of digital assets and the mining of digital assets. Any resulting requirements that apply to or relate to our mining activities or our transactions in bitcoin and digital assets may cause us to incur additional extraordinary, non-recurring expenses, thereby materially and adversely impacting an investment in our ordinary shares. Changing environmental regulatory and legislative developments may materially adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, results of operations and financial position. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating environmental and energy legislative and regulatory changes in response to the increasing focus on power consumption required to operate large-scale data centers. A changing legislative environment could create economic and regulatory uncertainty for our business because the industries in which we operate, bitcoin mining and HPC, with their high energy demand, could become targets for future environmental and energy regulations. See Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Operations Bitcoin mining activities are energy-intensive, which may restrict the geographic locations of miners and have a negative environmental impact. Government regulators may potentially restrict the ability of electricity suppliers to provide electricity to mining operations, such as ours, increase taxes on the purchase of electricity used to mine bitcoin, or even fully or partially ban mining operations. The trend of increased environmental regulation is not linear and can fluctuate depending on the administration and jurisdiction, even within the same county. For example, although the Trump Administration initially withdrew the U.S. from the Paris Agreement in November 2020, the U.S. reentered the Paris Agreement in February 2021 under the Biden Administration, but the Trump Administration again withdrew from the Paris Agreement on January 20, 2025. Though we are closely following developments in this area and changes in the regulatory landscape in the United States, we cannot predict with precision or quantify how or when challenges may arise and ultimately impact our business. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us and our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting, costs to purchase renewable energy credits or allowances, and other costs to comply with such regulations. Specifically, imposition of a tax or other regulatory fee in jurisdictions where we operate or on electricity that we purchase could result in substantially higher energy costs, and due to the significant amount of electrical power required to operate bitcoin mining machines, could in turn put our facilities at a competitive disadvantage. Any future climate change regulations could also negatively affect our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be addressed, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increasing awareness of climate change and any negative publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, prospects, results of operations and cash flows. 27 Our interactions with a blockchain may expose us to SDN or blocked persons or cause us to violate provisions of law that did not contemplate distribute ledger technology. The Office of Financial Assets Control of the U.S. Department of Treasury (OFAC) requires us to comply with its sanction program and not conduct business with persons named on its specially designated nationals (SDN) list. However, because of the pseudonymous nature of blockchain transactions, we may inadvertently and without our knowledge engage in transactions with persons named on OFACs SDN list. Our internal policies prohibit any transactions with such SDN individuals, but we may not be adequately capable of determining the ultimate identity of the individual with whom we transact with respect to selling digital assets. In the future, OFAC or another regulator, may require us to screen transactions for OFAC addresses or other bad actors before including such transactions in a block, which may increase our compliance costs, decrease our anticipated transaction fees and lead to decreased traffic on our network. We are unable to predict the nature or extent of new and proposed rules, legislation and regulation affecting the cryptocurrency industry, or the potential impact of the use of cryptocurrencies by SDN or other blocked or sanctioned persons, which could have material adverse effects on our business and our industry more broadly. Unanticipated changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States, and our tax liabilities will be subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expected timing and amount of the release of any tax valuation allowances; tax effects of stock-based compensation; costs related to intercompany restructurings; changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof; or changes in tax rates in jurisdictions where we operate In addition, we may be subject to audits of our income, sales and other transaction taxes by taxing authorities. Outcomes from these audits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future developments regarding the treatment of digital assets for U.S. federal income and applicable state, local and non-U.S. tax purposes could adversely impact our business. Due to the new and evolving nature of digital assets and the absence of comprehensive legal guidance with respect to digital assets and related transactions, many significant aspects of the U.S. federal income and applicable state, local and non-U.S. tax treatment of transactions involving digital assets, such as the purchase and sale of bitcoin and the receipt of staking rewards and other digital asset incentives and rewards products, are uncertain, and it is unclear what guidance may be issued in the future with respect to the tax treatment of digital assets and related transactions. Current IRS guidance indicates that for U.S. federal income tax purposes digital assets such as bitcoins should be treated and taxed as property, and that transactions involving the payment of bitcoins for goods and services should be treated in effect as barter transactions. The IRS has also released guidance to the effect that, under certain circumstances, hard forks of digital currencies are taxable events giving rise to taxable income and guidance with respect to the determination of the tax basis of digital currency. However, current IRS guidance does not address other significant aspects of the U.S. federal income tax treatment of digital assets and related transactions. Moreover, although current IRS guidance addresses the treatment of certain forks, there continues to be uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of income inclusions for various crypto asset transactions, including, but not limited to, staking rewards and other crypto asset incentives and rewards products. While current IRS guidance creates a potential tax reporting requirement for any circumstance where the ownership of a bitcoin passes from one person to another, it preserves the right to apply capital gains treatment to those transactions, which is generally favorable for investors in bitcoin. In addition, the U.S. Department of Treasury has issued regulations regarding certain tax reporting requirements applicable to transactions involving digital assets. 28 There can be no assurance that the IRS will not alter its existing position with respect to digital assets in the future or that other state, local and non-U.S. taxing authorities or courts will follow the approach of the IRS with respect to the treatment of digital assets such as bitcoins for income tax and sales tax purposes. Any such alteration of existing guidance or issuance of new or different guidance may have negative consequences including the imposition of a greater tax burden on investors in bitcoin or imposing a greater cost on the acquisition and disposition of bitcoin, generally; in either case potentially having a negative effect on the trading price of bitcoin or otherwise negatively impacting our business. In addition, future technological and operational developments that may arise with respect to digital currencies may increase the uncertainty with respect to the treatment of digital currencies for U.S. federal income and applicable state, local and non-U.S. tax purposes. Our ability to use certain tax attributes may be or become subject to limitation. Generally, U.S. federal net operating losses (NOLs) may be carried forward indefinitely and may offset up to 80% of taxable income (as calculated before taking the U.S. federal NOL carryforwards into account) in each year. However, our ability to use U.S. federal NOL carryforwards and certain other tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be limited. We currently have substantial U.S. federal NOL carryforwards and state tax attributes. Our ability to use these tax attributes to reduce future U.S. federal and state income tax obligations depends on many factors, including future taxable income, the timing of which is uncertain. In addition, our ability to use NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes may be subject to significant limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and corresponding provisions of state tax law. Risks Related to Cryptocurrency Our sources of revenue are dependent on bitcoin and the Bitcoin ecosystem, which can be highly volatile. Our sources of revenue are dependent on bitcoin and the Bitcoin ecosystem. Due to the highly volatile nature of the cryptocurrency markets and the prices of cryptocurrency assets, and bitcoin specifically, our operating results may continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in accordance with market sentiments and movements in the broader cryptocurrency ecosystem and in the Bitcoin ecosystem. Bitcoin prices depend on numerous market factors beyond our control and, accordingly, some underlying bitcoin price assumptions relied on by us may materially change and actual bitcoin prices may differ materially from those expected. In particular, our operating results may continue to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are unpredictable and, in certain instances, outside of our control, including: market conditions across the broader blockchain ecosystem; investment and trading activities of highly active retail and institutional investors, cryptocurrency users, speculators and miners; increased competition from new and existing competitors, and potential lost opportunities due to the relative financial strength of other market participants; developments and innovations in bitcoin mining equipment, including ASIC chip designs; changes in consumer preferences and perceived value of digital assets, including due to evolving cryptographic algorithms and emerging trends in the technology securing blockchains; publicity and events relating to the blockchain ecosystem, including public perception of the impact of the blockchain ecosystem on the environment and geopolitical developments; the correlation between the prices of digital assets, including the potential that a crash in one digital asset or widespread defaults on one digital asset exchange or trading venue may cause a crash in the price of other digital assets, or a series of defaults by counterparties on digital asset exchanges or trading venues; fees and speed associated with processing bitcoin transactions; level of interest rates and inflation; 29 changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, or actions by governments or regulators that impact monetary policies, fiat currency devaluations, trade restrictions, the digital assets industry generally, or mining operations specifically; difficulty obtaining hardware and related installation costs; access to cost-effective sources of electrical power; adverse legal proceedings or regulatory enforcement actions, judgments, settlements or other legal proceeding and enforcement-related costs; increases in operating expenses that we expect to incur to build-up and expand our operations and to remain competitive; system failure or outages, including with respect to our mining hardware, power supply and third-party networks; breaches of security or data privacy; loss of trust in the network due to a latent fault in the Bitcoin network; our ability to attract and retain talent; our ability to hedge risks related to our ownership of digital assets; and the introduction of new digital assets, leading to a decreased adoption of bitcoin. As a result of these factors, it may be difficult for us to forecast growth trends accurately and our business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate, particularly in the short term. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business and the Bitcoin ecosystem, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. Quarterly and annual expenses reflected in our financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected rates, and our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. The loss or destruction of our private keys to our digital wallets, causing a loss of some or all of our bitcoin assets. Digital assets, such as cryptocurrencies, are stored in a so-called digital wallet, which may be accessed to exchange a holders digital assets, and is controllable by the processor of both the public key and the private key relating to this digital wallet in which the digital assets are held, both of which are unique. The blockchain publishes the public key relating to digital wallets in use when transactions are made on the network, but users need to safeguard the private keys relating to such digital wallets. If one or more of our private keys are lost, destroyed, or otherwise compromised, we may be unable to access our bitcoin held in the related digital wallet which will essentially be lost. If the private key is acquired by a third party, then this third party may be able to gain access to our bitcoin. Any loss of private keys relating to digital wallets used to store our bitcoin, whether by us or digital asset exchanges where we hold our bitcoin, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern or could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. We may temporarily store our bitcoin on digital asset trading platforms which could subject our bitcoin to the risk of loss or access, especially in light of previous failures of major market participants. Such failures may also result in a reduction in the price of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies and can adversely affect an investment in us. In connection with our treasury management processes, in preparing to sell bitcoin, we may temporarily store all or a portion of our bitcoin on various digital asset trading platforms which requires us to rely on the security protocols of these trading platforms to safeguard our bitcoin. No security system is perfect and trading platforms have been subject to hacks resulting in the loss of businesses and customers digital assets in the past. Such trading platforms may not be well capitalized and may not have adequate insurance necessary to cover any loss or may not compensate for loss where permitted under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction. In addition, malicious actors may be able to intercept our bitcoin when we transact in or otherwise transfer our bitcoin or while we are in the process of selling our bitcoin via such trading platforms. Digital asset trading platforms have been a target for malicious actors in the past, and given the growth in their size and their relatively unregulated nature, we believe these trading platforms may continue to be targets for malicious actors. An actual or perceived security breach or data security incident at the digital asset trading platforms with which we 30 have accounts could harm our ability to operate, result in loss of our assets, damage our reputation and negatively affect the market perception of our effectiveness, all of which could adversely affect the value of our ordinary shares. Furthermore, previous failures of key institutions in the cryptocurrency asset industry, such as the collapse of FTX in 2022, highlights the risk of systemic interconnectedness between major market participants and the effect it could have on the industry as a whole. If any such digital assets trading platform and exchange, on which we store our bitcoin, experiences similar or same issues and is, therefore, forced to file for Chapter 11, we will be exposed to significant loss of value of our bitcoin stored on such digital assets trading platform and exchange. See also Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and OperationsWe may face several risks due to disruptions in the digital asset markets, including but not limited to, financing risk, risk of increased losses or impairments in our investments or other assets, risks of legal proceedings and government investigations, and risks from price declines or price volatility of digital assets. Additionally, a perceived lack of stability in the digital asset exchange market and the closure or temporary shutdown of digital asset exchanges due to business failure, hackers or malware, government-mandated regulation, or fraud, may reduce confidence in digital asset networks and result in greater volatility in cryptocurrency values. These potential consequences of a digital asset exchanges failure could adversely affect an investment in us. Incorrect or fraudulent cryptocurrency transactions may be irreversible. Cryptocurrency transactions are irrevocable and stolen or incorrectly transferred cryptocurrencies may be irretrievable. As a result, any incorrectly executed or fraudulent cryptocurrency transactions could adversely affect our investments and assets. Once a transaction has been verified and recorded in a block that is added to a blockchain, an incorrect transfer of a cryptocurrency or a theft thereof generally will not be reversible and we may not have sufficient recourse to recover our losses from any such transfer or theft. It is possible that, through computer or human error, or through theft or criminal action, our cryptocurrency rewards could be transferred in incorrect amounts or to unauthorized third parties, or to uncontrolled accounts. It is possible that, through computer or human error, or through theft or criminal action, our bitcoin could be transferred from us in incorrect amounts or to unauthorized third parties. To the extent we are unable to seek a corrective transaction with such third party or are incapable of identifying the third party which has received our bitcoin through error or theft, we will be unable to revert or otherwise recover incorrectly transferred bitcoin. If we are unable to recover our losses or seek redress for such error or theft, such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results, including our ability to continue as a going concern. Acceptance and widespread use of cryptocurrency, in general, and bitcoin, specifically, is uncertain. Currently, there is a relatively limited use of any cryptocurrency in the retail and commercial marketplace, contributing to price volatility of cryptocurrencies. Price volatility undermines any cryptocurrencys role as a medium of exchange, as retailers are much less likely to accept it as a form of payment. Banks and other established financial institutions may refuse to process funds for cryptocurrency transactions, process wire transfers to or from cryptocurrency exchanges, cryptocurrency-related companies or service providers, or maintain accounts for persons or entities transacting in cryptocurrency. Furthermore, a significant portion of cryptocurrency demand, including demand for bitcoin, is generated by investors seeking a long-term store of value or speculators seeking to profit from the short- or long-term holding of the asset. The relative lack of acceptance of cryptocurrencies in the retail and commercial marketplace, or a reduction of such use, limits the ability of end users to use them to pay for goods and services. Such lack of acceptance or decline in acceptances could have a material adverse effect on the value of bitcoin or any other cryptocurrencies, and consequently our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Ownership of bitcoin is pseudonymous, and the market supply of accessible bitcoin is unknown. Individuals or entities with substantial holdings in bitcoin may engage in large-scale sales or distributions, either on non- market terms or in the ordinary course, which could disproportionately and negatively affect the cryptocurrency market, result in a reduction in the price of bitcoin and materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. There is no registry showing which individuals or entities own bitcoin or the quantity of bitcoin that is owned by any particular person or entity. It is possible, and in fact, reasonably likely, that a small group of early bitcoin adopters hold a significant proportion of the bitcoin that has been created to date. There are no regulations in place that would prevent a large holder of bitcoin from selling the bitcoin it holds. To the extent such large holders of bitcoin engage in large-scale 31 sales or distributions, either on non-market terms or in the ordinary course, it could negatively affect the cryptocurrency market and result in a reduction in the price of bitcoin. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect the price of our stock, our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. The open-source structure of the Bitcoin network protocol means that the contributors to the protocol are generally not directly compensated for their contributions in maintaining and developing the protocol. The Bitcoin network operates based on an open-source protocol, not represented by an official organization or authority. Instead it is maintained by a small group of core contributors, largely on the Bitcoin Core project on GitHub.com. These individuals can propose refinements or improvements to the Bitcoin networks source code through one or more software upgrades that alter the protocols and software that govern the Bitcoin network and the properties of bitcoin, including the irreversibility of transactions and limitations on the mining of new bitcoin. Proposals for upgrades and discussions relating thereto take place on online forums. As the Bitcoin network protocol is not sold and its use does not generate revenues for contributors, contributors are generally not compensated for maintaining and updating the Bitcoin network protocol. Although the MIT Media Labs Digital Currency Initiative provides funding for individuals who perform leadership roles in the bitcoin community (known as lead maintainers), this type of financial incentive is not typical. The lack of guaranteed financial incentive for contributors to maintain or develop the Bitcoin network and the lack of guaranteed resources to adequately address emerging issues with the Bitcoin network may reduce incentives to address the issues adequately or in a timely manner. There can be no guarantee that developer support will continue or be sufficient in the future. Additionally, some development and developers are funded by companies whose interests may be at odds with other participants in the network or with investors interests. To the extent that material issues arise with the Bitcoin network protocol and the core developers and open-source contributors are unable or unwilling to address the issues adequately or in a timely manner, the Bitcoin network and consequently our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Significant contributors to a network for any particular digital asset, such as bitcoin, could propose amendments to the respective networks protocols and software that, if accepted and authorized by such network, could adversely affect our business. If a developer or group of developers proposes a modification to the Bitcoin network that is not accepted by a majority of miners and users, but that is nonetheless accepted by a substantial plurality of miners and users, two or more competing and incompatible blockchain implementations could result, with one running the pre-modification software program and the other running the modified version (i.e., a second Bitcoin network). This is known as a hard fork. Such a hard fork in the blockchain typically would be addressed by community-led efforts to reunite the forked blockchains, and several prior forks have been resolved successfully. However, a hard fork in the blockchain could materially and adversely affect the perceived value of bitcoin as reflected on one or both incompatible blockchains. Additionally, a hard fork will decrease the number of users and miners available to each fork of the blockchain as the users and miners on each fork blockchain will not be accessible to the other blockchain and, consequently, there will be fewer block rewards and transaction fees may decline in value. Any of the above could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. In August 2017, bitcoin forked into bitcoin and a new digital asset, Bitcoin Cash, as a result of a several-year dispute over how to increase the rate of transactions that the Bitcoin network can process. Since then, bitcoin has been forked numerous times to launch new digital assets, such as Bitcoin Gold, Bitcoin Silver and Bitcoin Diamond. These forks effectively result in a new blockchain being created with a shared history, and new path forward, and they have a different proof of work algorithm and other technical changes. Bitcoin Cash and the other similar digital assets may or may not have value in the long run and may affect the price of bitcoin if interest is shifted away from bitcoin to these newly created digital assets. The value of bitcoin after the creation of a fork is subject to many factors including the value of the fork product, market reaction to the creation of the fork product, and the occurrence of forks in the future. Furthermore, a hard fork can introduce new security risks. For example, when Ethereum and Ethereum Classic split in July 2016, replay attacks, in which transactions from one network were rebroadcast to nefarious effect on the other network, plagued trading venues through at least October 2016. An exchange announced in July 2016 that it had lost 32 40,000 Ether from the Ethereum Classic network, which was worth about $100,000 at that time, as a result of replay attacks. Another possible result of a hard fork is an inherent decrease in the level of security. After a hard fork, it may become easier for an individual miner or mining pools hashing power to exceed 50% of the processing power of the Bitcoin network, thereby making the network more susceptible to attack. A fork could also be introduced by an unintentional, unanticipated software flaw in the multiple versions of otherwise compatible software that users run. It is possible, however, that a substantial number of users and miners could adopt an incompatible version of bitcoin while resisting community-led efforts to merge the two chains. This would result in a permanent fork, as in the case of Ethereum and Ethereum Classic, as detailed above. If a fork occurs on a digital asset network which we hold or are mining, such as bitcoin, it may have a negative effect on the value of the digital asset and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. The development and acceptance of cryptographic and algorithmic protocols governing the issuance of and transactions in cryptocurrencies is subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to evaluate. Digital assets, such as bitcoin, that may be used, among other things, to buy and sell goods and services are a new and rapidly evolving industry of which the digital asset networks are prominent, but not unique, parts. The growth of the digital asset industry, in general, and the digital asset networks, in particular, are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. The factors affecting the further development of the digital asset industry, as well as the digital asset networks, include: worldwide growth in the adoption and use of bitcoin and other digital assets; government and quasi-government regulation of bitcoin and other digital assets and their use, or restrictions on or regulation of access to and operation of the digital asset network or similar digital assets systems; the maintenance and development of the open-source software protocol of the Bitcoin network and other digital asset block-chains; changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; the availability and popularity of other forms or methods of buying and selling goods and services, including new means of using fiat currencies; general economic conditions and the regulatory environment relating to digital assets; and the impact of regulators focusing on digital assets and digital securities and the costs associated with such regulatory oversight. The outcome of these factors could have negative effects on our ability to pursue our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results as well as potentially negative effect on the value of bitcoin or any other cryptocurrencies we may potentially acquire or hold in the future. Banks and financial institutions may not provide banking services, or may cut off services, to businesses that provide cryptocurrency-related services or that accept cryptocurrencies as payment. A number of companies that provide bitcoin or other cryptocurrency-related services have been unable to find banks or financial institutions that are willing to provide them with bank accounts and other services. This risk may be further exacerbated in the current environment in light of several high-profile bankruptcies in the digital assets industry, as well as recent bank failures, which have disrupted investor confidence in cryptocurrencies and led to a rapid escalation of oversight of the digital asset industry. For further details, see Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and OperationsThe further development and acceptance of digital asset networks and other digital assets, which represent a new and rapidly changing industry, are subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to evaluate. The slowing or stopping of the development or acceptance of digital asset systems may adversely affect an investment in us. Established banks and financial institutions may be reluctant to provide products and services to the digital asset industry participants due to heightened concerns about the ability to comply with the heightened risks and regulatory scrutiny of banking institutions that provide such products or services. 33 A number of companies and individuals or businesses associated with cryptocurrencies may have had and may continue to have their existing bank accounts closed or services discontinued with financial institutions. We also may be unable to maintain these services for our business. The difficulty that many businesses that provide bitcoin or other cryptocurrency-related services have and may continue to have in finding banks and financial institutions willing to provide them services may decrease the usefulness of cryptocurrencies as a payment system and harm public perception of cryptocurrencies. Similarly, the usefulness of cryptocurrencies as a payment system and the public perception of cryptocurrencies could be damaged if banks or financial institutions were to close the accounts of businesses providing bitcoin or other cryptocurrency-related services. This could occur as a result of compliance risk, cost, government regulation or public pressure. The risk applies to securities firms, clearance and settlement firms, national stock and commodities exchanges, the over-the-counter market and the Depository Trust Company. Such factors would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin, face significant scaling obstacles that can lead to high fees or slow transaction settlement times and any mechanisms of increasing the scale of cryptocurrency settlement may significantly alter the competitive dynamics in the market. Cryptocurrencies face significant scaling obstacles that can lead to high fees or slow transaction settlement times, and attempts to increase the volume of transactions may not be effective. Scaling cryptocurrencies, and particularly bitcoin, is essential to the widespread acceptance of cryptocurrencies as a means of payment, which is necessary to the growth and development of our business. Many cryptocurrency networks face significant scaling challenges. For example, cryptocurrencies are limited with respect to how many transactions can occur per second. In this respect, bitcoin may be particularly affected as it relies on the proof of work validation, which due to its inherent characteristics may be particularly hard to scale to allow simultaneous processing of multiple daily transactions by users. Participants in the cryptocurrency ecosystem debate potential approaches to increasing the average number of transactions per second that the network can handle and have implemented mechanisms or are researching ways to increase scale, such as sharding, which is a term for a horizontal partition of data in a database or search engine, which would not require every single transaction to be included in every single miners or validators block. There is no guarantee that any of the mechanisms in place or being explored for increasing the scale of settlement of cryptocurrency transactions will be effective, how long they will take to become effective or whether such mechanisms will be effective for all cryptocurrencies. If the Bitcoin network is unable to address scaling issues, the price of bitcoin may decrease as users seek alternative networks. There is also a risk that any mechanisms of increasing the scale of cryptocurrency settlement may significantly alter the competitive dynamics in the cryptocurrency market and may adversely affect the value of bitcoin and the price of our common stock. Alternatively, if bitcoin does make changes to its protocol to address scaling issues, these changes may render our business model obsolete. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. The development and acceptance of competing blockchain platforms or technologies may cause consumers to use alternative distributed ledgers or other alternatives. The development and acceptance of competing blockchain platforms or technologies may cause consumers to use alternative distributed ledgers or an alternative to distributed ledgers altogether. Our business intends to rely on presently existent digital ledgers and blockchains and we could face difficulty adapting to emergent digital ledgers, blockchains, or alternatives thereto. This may adversely affect us and our exposure to various blockchain technologies and prevent us from realizing the anticipated profits from our investments. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results and potentially the value of any bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies we may potentially acquire or hold in the future. If a malicious actor or botnet obtains control in excess of 50% of the processing power active on any digital asset network, including the Bitcoin network, it is possible that such actor or botnet could manipulate the blockchain in a manner that may adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. If a malicious actor, such as a rogue mining pool or botnet (a volunteer or hacked collection of computers controlled by networked software coordinating the actions of the computers), obtains a majority of the processing power dedicated to mining on any digital asset network (the so-called double-spend or 51% attacks), including the Bitcoin network, it may be able to alter the blockchain by constructing alternate blocks if it is able to solve for such blocks faster 34 than the remainder of the miners on the blockchain can add valid blocks. In such alternate blocks, the malicious actor or botnet could control, exclude or modify the ordering of transactions, though it could not generate new digital assets or transactions using such control. Using alternate blocks, the malicious actor could double-spend its own digital assets (i.e., spend the same digital assets in more than one transaction) and prevent the confirmation of other users transactions for so long as it maintains control. To the extent that such malicious actor or botnet does not yield its majority control of the processing power or the digital asset community does not reject the fraudulent blocks as malicious, reversing any changes made to the blockchain may not be possible. The approach towards and possible crossing of the 50% threshold indicate a greater risk that a single mining pool could exert authority over the validation of digital asset transactions. To the extent that the cryptocurrency ecosystem does not act to ensure greater decentralization of cryptocurrency mining processing power, the feasibility of a malicious actor obtaining in excess of 50% of the processing power on any digital asset network (e.g., through control of a large mining pool or through hacking such a mining pool) will increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. The price of cryptocurrencies may be affected by the sale of such cryptocurrencies by other vehicles investing in cryptocurrencies or tracking cryptocurrency markets. The global market for cryptocurrency is characterized by supply constraints that differ from those present in the markets for commodities or other assets such as gold and silver. The mathematical protocols under which certain cryptocurrencies are mined permit the creation of a limited, predetermined amount of currency, while others have no limit established on total supply. To the extent that other vehicles investing in cryptocurrencies or tracking cryptocurrency markets form and come to represent a significant proportion of the demand for cryptocurrencies, large redemptions of the securities of those vehicles and the subsequent sale of cryptocurrencies by such vehicles could negatively affect cryptocurrency prices and therefore affect the value of the cryptocurrency inventory we hold. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. We may face risks of Internet disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of cryptocurrencies. A disruption of the Internet may affect the use of cryptocurrencies and subsequently the value of our securities. Generally, bitcoin mining is dependent upon the Internet. A significant disruption in Internet connectivity could disrupt the Bitcoin network operations, or our ability to mine bitcoin, until the disruption is resolved, and could have a material adverse effect on the price of cryptocurrencies and, bitcoin specifically, and consequently, our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Risks Related to Bitcoin Mining Bitcoin is the only cryptocurrency that we currently mine and, thus, our success depends in large part upon the value of bitcoin; the value of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies may be subject to pricing risk and has historically been subject to wide swings. Our operating results depend in large part upon the value of bitcoin because it is the only cryptocurrency that we mine. Specifically, our revenues from our bitcoin mining operations are based upon two factors: (1) the number of block rewards that we successfully mine and (2) the value of bitcoin. If other cryptocurrencies were to achieve acceptance at the expense of bitcoin, causing the value of bitcoin to decline, or if bitcoin were to switch its proof of work algorithm from SHA-256 to a proof of stake validation method or another algorithm for which the miners we use are not specialized, or the value of bitcoin were to decline for other reasons, particularly if such decline were significant or over an extended period of time, our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results would be adversely affected. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency market prices have historically been volatile. Our business may be adversely affected if the markets for bitcoin deteriorate or if its prices decline, including as a result of the following factors: the reduction in mining rewards of bitcoin, including block reward halving events, which are events that occur after a specific period of time which reduces the block reward earned by miners; 35 disruptions, hacks, forks, 51% attacks, or other similar incidents affecting the Bitcoin blockchain network; hard forks resulting in the creation of and divergence into multiple separate networks; informal governance led by bitcoins core developers that lead to revisions to the underlying source code or inactions that prevent network scaling, and which evolve over time largely based on self- determined participation, which may result in new changes or updates that affect their speed, security, usability, or value; the ability for Bitcoin blockchain network to resolve significant scaling challenges and increase the volume and speed of transactions; the ability to attract and retain developers and customers to use bitcoin for payment, store of value, unit of accounting, and other intended uses; transaction congestion and fees associated with processing transactions on the Bitcoin network; the identification of Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonymous person or persons who developed bitcoin, or the transfer of Satoshis bitcoin assets; negative public perception of bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies or their reputation within the fintech influencer community or the general publicity around them; development in mathematics, technology, including in digital computing, algebraic geometry, and quantum computing that could result in the cryptography being used by bitcoin becoming insecure or ineffective; and laws and regulations affecting the Bitcoin network or access to this network, including a determination that bitcoin constitutes a security or other regulated financial instrument under the laws of any jurisdiction. Furthermore, bitcoin pricing may be the result of, and may continue to result in, speculation regarding future appreciation in the value of cryptocurrencies, inflating and making their market prices more volatile or creating bubble type risks for bitcoin. Some market observers have asserted that the bitcoin market is experiencing a bubble and have predicted that, in time, the value of bitcoin will fall to a fraction of its current value, or even to zero. Bitcoin has not been in existence long enough for market participants to assess these predictions with any precision, but if these observers are even partially correct, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Rewards for successful production of bitcoin are negatively impacted by the bitcoin halving protocol expected every four years, and the supply of bitcoin is limited. The supply of bitcoin is limited and, once the 21 million bitcoin have been unearthed, the network will stop producing more. Currently, there are approximately 19.6 million, or approximately 93% of the total supply of, bitcoin in circulation. The halving is an event within the Bitcoin protocol where the bitcoin reward provided upon mining a block is reduced by 50%. Halvings are scheduled to occur once every 210,000 blocks, or roughly every four years. The latest halving occurred in April 2024, which revised the block reward to 3.125 bitcoin and the next halving expected in April 2028. Halving reduces the number of new bitcoin being generated by the network. While the effect is to slow the pace of the release of new coins, it has no impact on the quantity of total bitcoin already outstanding. As a result, the price of bitcoin could rise or fall based on overall investor and consumer demand. Given a stable network hashrate, should the price of bitcoin remain unchanged after the next halving, our revenue related to mining new coins would be reduced by 50%, with a significant impact on profit. Furthermore, as the number of bitcoin remaining to be mined decreases, the processing power required to record new blocks on the blockchain may increase. Eventually the processing power required to add a block to the blockchain may exceed the value of the reward for adding a block. Additionally, at some point, there will be no new bitcoin to mine. Once the processing power required to add a block to the blockchain exceeds the value of the reward for adding a block, we may focus on other strategic initiatives, which may be complimentary to our mining operations. For further details, see 36 BusinessOur StrategyCommitment to growth, innovation and retaining flexibility to consider strategically adjacent opportunities to expand our business model. Risks Related to High-Performance Compute (HPC) Any potential use of emerging technologies like artificial intelligence, machine learning and generative artificial intelligence could lead to unintended consequences and result in reputational harm and litigation. We continue to evaluate emerging technologies like artificial intelligence, machine learning and generative artificial intelligence for incorporation into our business. State and federal regulations relating to these emerging technologies are quickly evolving, and, should we adopt such technologies, we may require significant resources to maintain our business practices while seeking to comply with U.S. laws. Any failure to accurately identify and address our responsibilities and liabilities in this new environment could negatively affect any solutions we develop incorporating such technologies and could subject us to reputational harm, regulatory action or litigation, any of which may harm our financial condition and operating results. These same risks apply to our use of third-party service providers who are implementing these tools into the products or services they provide to us. Our increased focus on developing data centers for HPC hosting may not become profitable in the future and may result in adverse consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks and uncertainties of starting a new business, including the risk that we may never further develop or complete development of our proposed HPC hosting business. Although our construction and operations teams have prior experience in the HPC field and we believe focusing more on developing data centers for HPC companies will be beneficial to our stockholders, the HPC hosting business is novel and rapidly evolving. We have limited experience in developing an HPC hosting business and we have not previously constructed and operated an HPC data center; thus, there is no guarantee that we will successfully implement our development plans or that this business will become profitable in the future. Furthermore, we may experience difficulties with infrastructure development or modification, engineering, or design, which could result in excessive capital expenditures and significant delays. Our efforts to construct and operate HPC data centers may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate and may not result in increased revenue or profitability in the short term or at all. We have limited experience in developing an HPC hosting business and we have not previously constructed and operated an HPC data center, which may impact our efforts and our ability to accurately assess our prospects. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications, problems and delays frequently encountered in connection with the expansion of a business and operating a business in an industry that is novel, competitive and rapidly evolving. Our focus on developing and offering HPC hosting may also disrupt our bitcoin mining business, divert our resources, and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for overseeing and developing our existing bitcoin mining operations business. There can be no assurance that we will ever operate an HPC hosting business profitably and it may be possible that a continued focus on operating bitcoin mining data centers would have been more profitable. Constructing data centers for HPC hosting requires significantly higher capital expenditures compared to bitcoin mining data centers, and we may be unable to secure capital or financing for our construction efforts to develop data centers for HPC hosting. Constructing data center facilities for HPC hosting requires significant capital expenditures, in particular when compared to capital expenditures for bitcoin mining data center facilities. If we are not able to secure capital or financing to fund our construction efforts with respect to HPC hosting facilities, the completion of such projects may be delayed and our ability to collect any potential renal revenue or to otherwise monetize such facilities may be compromised, which could have an adverse effect on our expansion strategy and our ability to generate significant or any revenue from an HPC hosting business. Regulatory developments surrounding HPC may negatively impact our efforts to expand into HPC hosting. 37 The regulatory landscape surrounding HPC, artificial intelligence (AI) and bitcoin mining operations is evolving rapidly, and we anticipate increased scrutiny and potential regulation in the near and long term. These developments may affect our business and operations in ways that are difficult to predict. There are growing concerns about the ethical implications and potential misuse of the growing AI technologies and the AI landscape is facing challenges and uncertainties. The development of more advanced AI systems, such as large language models and generative AI, has raised concerns about potential misuse, bias, and the displacement of human workers. Governments and regulatory bodies are considering measures to ensure responsible development and deployment of AI systems, including guidelines for transparency, accountability, and fairness. In recent years, crypto mining has received increased attention from regulators with respect to technical and financial aspects of this industry. We expect that regulatory efforts in this area will continue to evolve and potentially affect our business. As a company operating at the intersection of HPC, AI, and bitcoin mining, we are committed to maintaining a proactive and adaptive approach to regulatory compliance. We continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments closely and engage in dialogue with relevant stakeholders to ensure our business practices align with the evolving legal and regulatory framework. However, there can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely impacted by future developments. It may take significant time and expenditure to develop an HPC hosting business through continued development at our existing and planned sites, and our efforts may not be successful. The continued development of our existing and planned facilities is subject to various factors beyond our control. There may be difficulties in integrating new equipment into existing infrastructure, constraints on our ability to connect to or procure the expected electricity supply capacity at our facilities, defects in design, construction or installed equipment, diversion of management resources, insufficient funding or other resource constraints. Actual costs for development may exceed our planned budget. In particular, our business strategy includes expanding and diversifying our revenue sources into a new market, HPC hosting. Our ability to execute on our HPC hosting business strategy could be challenging with our current data center designs and may require retrofits, alterations or other custom designed solutions to enable the operating environment to function for an HPC tenant, which may be cost prohibitive, if the operating environment or site is capable of doing so at all. Such alterations may require close collaboration with cooling experts, engineers and specialized vendors to ensure thermal management is aligned with specific hardware requirements. We intend to expand by acquiring and developing additional sites, taking into account a number of important characteristics such as availability of renewable energy, electrical infrastructure and related costs, geographic location and the local regulatory environment. We may have difficulty finding sites that satisfy our requirements at a commercially viable price or our timing requirements. Furthermore, there may be significant competition for suitable data center sites, and government regulators, including local permitting officials, may restrict our ability to set up data center operations in certain locations. Leveraging sites that we have contractually secured may ultimately fail to complete due to factors beyond our control. In addition, the ability to secure connection agreements to access power sources and permits, approvals and/or licenses to construct and operate our facilities could be delayed in regulatory processes, may not be successful or may be cost prohibitive. Actions by government regulators, or the issuance of any new regulations, that restrict our ability to operate HPC hosting or bitcoin mining data centers may reduce the availability and/or increase the cost of electricity in the geographic locations in which our operating facilities are located, or could otherwise adversely impact our business. Development and construction delays, cost overruns, changes in market circumstances, environmental or community constraints, an inability to continue to find suitable data center locations as part of our expansion and other factors may adversely affect our operations, expansion plans, financial position and financial performance. We will continue to review our expansion plans in light of evolving market conditions. Any such delays, and any failure to increase our total data center or hashrate capacity in the future, could adversely impact our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 38 Risks Related to our Common Stock and Warrants We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not timely remediated, may adversely affect the accuracy and reliability of our future financial statements, and our reputation, business and the price of our common stock, as well as may lead to a loss of investor confidence in us. As described under Item 9A.