ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this annual report. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this annual report. Our consolidated financial statements are stated in United States dollars and are prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. The more significant areas requiring the use of estimates include asset impairment, stock-based compensation, and future income tax amounts. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions considered to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, actual results may differ from the estimates. OVERVIEW We have not generated any revenue since our inception. We are a development stage company with limited operations. Our auditors have issued a going concern opinion. This means that our auditors believe there is substantial doubt that we can continue as an ongoing business for the next twelve months. PLAN OF OPERATION We are developing an online help desk customer support system to assist service companies in improving their customer relationship management. We expect our system to be used by organizations interested in improving their customer relationship management by automating their customer support and by establishing a centralized help desk. We plan for our software product to be capable of providing a generic solution across a broad range of industries. During the next twelve months following the effectiveness of this Registration Statement, we expect to take the following steps in connection with the further development of our business and the implementation of our plan of operation: FIRST QUARTER - 2011: During the first three months, we plan to: * Initiate our software development activities * Initiate the development of our corporate and marketing collateral Software development: We will search for the services of a third party independent software developer. We intend for the software developer to supply his or her own computer, software and high-speed Internet connection. During months 1 and 2, we intend to coordinate with the software contractor on the development of the software specifications and on a high level design. The specifications will be in the form of a document that will describe the product, the way the product interacts with the customers, and the company's database. High-level design will include identifying the different components of the software and how they interact with each other. Marketing activities: By the end of month 1, we plan to hire an independent graphic and web designer. We expect that such independent contractor will finish developing our corporate collateral (including logo, business cards, 20 letterheads, stationeries, e-mail forms) by the end of month 2. We also plan to develop and complete the information only website, which we expect to be completed by the end of the first quarter. SECOND QUARTER - 2011: During this quarter, we expect to focus on the development of our software product. Software development: During this period the actual software development will start to take place. By the end of the quarter we expect to have a beta version complete for testing. Marketing activities: During this quarter we plan to start researching ways to market our website and product. We will also identify third party websites that will sell our software. We will also plan our online marketing plan. THIRD QUARTER - 2011: Software development: During this period we will test the beta version of the software and tweak to finalize development. We expect the final version of the software to be finalized by end of this quarter. At this point we will also put a trial version of the software online for download. Marketing activities: During this quarter we plan to finalize agreements with third party websites for the sale of our software. We expect to implement our online marketing plan by conducting keyword searches on Yahoo and Google. We will also place online banner ads on various strategic websites. FOURTH QUARTER - 2011: Software development: We intend to complete the development of our software product by the end of the Fourth Quarter. Initially we plan to sell the software as a download only product since this will minimize our costs. Potential customers will be able to purchase the software directly from our website. Marketing activities: We plan to circulate news releases to industry professionals and distribute complimentary versions sent to select professionals to gain market exposure and publicity. We will also start a targeted email campaign. ACTIVITIES TO DATE We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada on May 21, 2007. We are a development stage company. From our inception to date, we have not generated any revenues, and our operations have been limited to organizational, start-up, and capital formation activities. We currently have no employees. To date, we have conducted market research, started work on a corporate information-only website, and researched third party software development firms. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS REVENUES We had no revenues for the period from May 21, 2007 (date of inception), through April 30, 2010. EXPENSES Our expenses for the twelve month period ended April 30, 2010 and 2009, were $13,475 and $45,240. During the period from May 21, 2007 (date of inception), through April 30, 2010, we incurred expenses of $66,082. These expenses were comprised primarily of general and administrative, and legal and accounting expenses, as well as banking fees. NET INCOME (LOSS) Our net loss for the twelve-month period ended April 30, 2010 and 2009 was $13,475 and $45,240. During the period from May 21, 2007 (date of inception), through April 30, 2010, we incurred a net loss of $66,082. This loss consisted 21 primarily of incorporation costs, legal and accounting fees, consulting fees, website hosting costs, and administrative expenses. Since inception, we have sold 2,300,000 shares of common stock. PURCHASE OR SALE OF EQUIPMENT We do not expect to purchase or sell any plant or significant equipment. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our balance sheet as of April 30, 2010 reflects assets of $3,090 in the form of cash and cash equivalents and prepaid expenses. Since inception, we have sold 2,300,000 shares of common stock with gross proceeds of $55,000. However, cash resources provided from our capital formation activities have, from inception, been insufficient to provide the working capital necessary to operate our Company. We anticipate generating losses in the near term, and therefore, may be unable to continue operations in the future. If we require additional capital, we would have to issue debt or equity or enter into a strategic arrangement with a third party. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us. We currently have no agreements, arrangements, or understandings with any person to obtain funds through bank loans, lines of credit, or any other sources. GOING CONCERN CONSIDERATION Our registered independent auditors included an explanatory paragraph in their report on the accompanying financial statements regarding concerns about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements contain additional note disclosures describing the circumstances that lead to this disclosure by our registered independent auditors. Due to this doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, management is open to new business opportunities which may prove more profitable to the shareholders of Digital Valleys Corp. Historically, we have been able to raise a limited amount of capital through private placements of our equity stock, but we are uncertain about our continued ability to raise funds privately. Further, we believe that our company may have difficulties raising capital until we locate a prospective business opportunity through which we can pursue our plan of operation. If we are unable to secure adequate capital to continue our acquisition efforts, our business may fail and our stockholders may lose some or all of their investment. Should our original business plan fail, we anticipate that the selection of a business opportunity in which to participate will be complex and without certainty of success. Management believes that there are numerous firms in various industries seeking the perceived benefits of being a publicly registered corporation. Business opportunities may be available in many different industries and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to locate compatible business opportunities. 22