Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the financial statements and related notes thereto included in this Annual Report. For the year ended For the year ended For the partial year ended Statements of Operations Data: December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021 Revenues $- $- $- Cost of revenues - - - General and administrative 78,380 63,095 3,226 Net loss (78,380) (63,095) (3,226) Basic and Diluted Loss per share $(0.05) $(0.04) $(0.04) As of December 31, Balance Sheet Data: 2023 2022 2021 Current assets $275,857 $349,755 $239,650 Oil and gas properties not subject to amortization 34,500 34,500 - Total assets 310,357 384,255 239,650 Total current liabilities 7,995 3,513 5,226 Total long-term liabilities - - - Total Stockholders' Equity 302,362 380,742 234,424 Item 7:Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our accompanying financial statements and the notes to those financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The following discussion includes forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs and our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those discussed under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview Circle was incorporated on December 7, 2021, as a Nevada company for the purpose of acting as an independent exploration and production company to engage in oil and natural gas development, production, acquisition, and exploration activities currently focused in Texas. We have acquired a 75% working interest in an 80-acre oil and gas lease located in Andrews County, Texas, and have entered into a joint venture agreement to explore the area of mutual interest surrounding the current lease for further acquisitions and development. Results of Operations and Known Trends or Future Events We are in our startup phase of operations and have not generated any revenues to date. Activities since inception include corporate organizational activities, our recently completed private offering, those activities necessary to prepare for the registration of shares for the Selling Stockholders, acquisition of our first oil and gas lease interest, and arrangements to expand operations in the current area of interest through a joint venture with a third party. We have incurred operating expenses related to legal and accounting services, and oil and gas lease acquisition costs. We expect to incur expenses to develop the oil and gas lease and anticipate increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting, and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses related to future oil and gas business growth. We expect our expenses to increase substantially as a result. Year Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2022 Sales, production costs and production taxes. The Company does not currently have any producing wells and thus has no production, sales, production costs or production taxes nor has it ever had any to date. Depreciation, depletion and amortization. We have no production and our current oil and gas properties thus are not yet subject to amortization. Further, we have no depreciable assets. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses were $78,380 for year ended 2023, as compared to $63,095 for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase is related to costs incurred in 2023 related to maintaining the listing of the common stock of the Company on OTC Markets. 24 Net loss. The Company had net loss of $78,380 for year ended 2023, as compared to $63,095 for the year ended December 31, 2022. This increase in loss was the result of increased general and administrative costs, which increase is related to costs incurred to maintain the listing of the common stock of the Company on OTC Markets. Liquidity and Capital Resources Financing of Operations. Our source of cash in 2022 was from a private placement offering of our common stock with no income during 2023. The funds from the offering in 2022, along with funds from the issuance of founders shares, were used to fund our operations during 2022 and 2023. Those operations consisted of acquiring our initial acreage position and costs incurred towards listing the common stock of the Company on OTC Markets. Equity Offering. During 2022, the Company issued 330,000 shares of common stock in a private placement offering. The shares were subsequently registered via a Form S-1 filing. Gross proceeds from this offering were $264,000. There were no issuances of shares in offerings during 2023. Cash Flows. During 2022, we had cash inflow from issuance of common stock of $209,413. There were no cash inflows during 2023. During 2022, we expended $34,500 in capital expenditures, to acquire our initial property. There were no cash outflows for capital expenditures in 2023. We used cash in operating activity of $74,903 during the year ended December 31, 2023 and $73,672 for the year ended December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2023, we had cash on hand of $261,338 and working capital of $267,862, as compared to cash on hand of $336,241 and working capital of $346,242 as of December 31, 2022. Contractual Obligations. The Company has a short-term lease for executive office-sharing space in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Subsequent Events Not applicable. Effects of Inflation and Pricing The oil and natural gas industry is very cyclical and the demand for goods and services of oil field companies, suppliers and others associated with the industry puts extreme pressure on the economic stability and pricing structure within the industry. Typically, as prices for oil and natural gas increase, so do associated costs. Material changes in prices impact the current revenue stream, estimates of future reserves, borrowing base calculations of bank loans and the value of properties in purchase and sale transactions. Material changes in prices can impact the value of oil and natural gas companies and their ability to raise capital, borrow money and retain personnel. We anticipate business costs will vary in accordance with commodity prices for oil and natural gas, and the associated increase or decrease in demand for services related to production and exploration. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements As of December 31, 2023, we had no off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion of financial condition and results of operations is based upon the information reported in our financial statements. The preparation of these statements requires us to make assumptions and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements. We base our assumptions and estimates on historical experience and other sources that we believe to be reasonable at the time. Actual results may vary from our estimates due to changes in circumstances, weather, politics, global economics, mechanical problems, general business conditions and other factors. Our significant accounting policies are detailed in Note 1 to our financial statements included in this Annual Report. We have outlined below certain of these policies as being of particular importance to the portrayal of our financial position and results of operations and which require the application of significant judgment by our management. 25 Revenue Recognition. The Company accounts for revenues according to Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09 Revenues from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09). The Company predominantly derives its revenue from the sale of produced crude oil and natural gas. The contractual performance obligation is satisfied when the product is delivered to the customer. Revenue is recorded in the month the product is delivered to the purchaser. The Company receives payment from one to three months after delivery. The transaction price includes variable consideration as product pricing is based on published market prices and reduced for contract specified differentials. The guidance regarding ASU 2014-09 does not require that the transaction price be fixed or stated in the contract. Revenue is recognized net of royalties due to third parties in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products. See Note 2 of our financial statements for additional information. Full Cost Method of Accounting. We account for our oil and natural gas operations using the full cost method of accounting. Under this method, all costs (internal or external) associated with property acquisition, exploration and development of oil and gas reserves are capitalized. Costs capitalized include acquisition costs, geological and geophysical expenditures, lease rentals on undeveloped properties and cost of drilling and equipping productive and non-productive wells. Drilling costs include directly related overhead costs. All of our properties are located within the continental United States. Write-down of Oil and Natural Gas Properties. Companies that use the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas exploration and development activities are required to perform a ceiling test calculation each quarter. The full cost ceiling test is an impairment test prescribed by SEC Regulation S-X Rule 4-10. The ceiling test is performed quarterly utilizing the average of prices in effect on the first day of the month for the preceding twelve-month period in accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8995. The ceiling limits such pooled costs to the aggregate of the present value of future net revenues attributable to proved crude oil and natural gas reserves discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or market value of unproved properties, less any associated tax effects. If such capitalized costs exceed the ceiling, the Company will record a write-down to the extent of such excess as a non-cash charge to earnings. Any such write-down will reduce earnings in the period of occurrence and results in a lower depletion, depreciation and amortization (DD&A) rate in future periods. A write-down may not be reversed in future periods even though higher oil and natural gas prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. Oil and Natural Gas Reserve Quantities. Reserve quantities and the related estimates of future net cash flows affect our periodic calculations of depletion and impairment of our oil and natural gas properties. Proved oil and natural gas reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future periods from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Income Taxes. Deferred income taxes are provided for the difference between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and the carrying amount in our financial statements. This difference will result in taxable income or deductions in future years when the reported amount of the asset or liability is settled. Since our tax returns are filed after the financial statements are prepared, estimates are required in valuing tax assets and liabilities. We record adjustments to the actual values in the period we file our tax returns. As the Company currently has no revenues, there is reasonable doubt as to the realizability of any deferred tax assets. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset of $16,460 and $13,250, respectively.