ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto, included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. In addition to historical information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, particularly in the Risk Factors section. Overview Founded in 2013, Circles mission is to raise global economic prosperity through the frictionless exchange of value. We intend to connect the world more deeply by building a new global economic system on the foundation of the internet, and to facilitate the creation of a world where everyone, everywhere can share value as easily as we can today share information, content, and communications. Since inception, we have relentlessly pursued our mission and vision, building fundamental technology for the internet financial system. We have forged paths toward mainstream acceptance through persistent and active engagement with policymakers and regulators globally, and have seen institutional and consumer knowledge and acceptance of internet-native financial assets approach critical mass. Large and influential players in the incumbent financial services system are increasingly embracing digital assets broadly and stablecoins specifically. Circles innovative products reach tens of millions of end-users, power thousands of businesses, and, as of September 30, 2025, USDC has been used for over $41.4 trillion in onchain transactions. While we have made strong progress in our pursuit of our mission and vision over the past decade, we believe the internet financial system is in its infancy with decades of growth and innovation ahead. Our Business Model We believe that we are well positioned to capitalize on the development of the internet financial system and the reimagining of how money works in the world. The future of money is open, transparent, and digital, and we are at the center of this transformation. Our business model is driven by the growth of the Circle stablecoin network, which comprises our stablecoin infrastructure, our banking and reserve management infrastructure, our blockchain infrastructure, and our Developer Services application platform, as well as all the end-users who are active on our platform and benefit from our underlying technology. We continually invest in growing the Circle stablecoin network: We promote distribution and adoption of Circle stablecoins through partnerships with large, leading financial and technology-focused institutions with large consumer customer bases. We expand our reach by broadening the accessibility of our network, such as by building global on- and off-ramps from fiat banking providers that permit Circle Mint customers to move their funds between fiat and Circle stablecoins, enabling efficient utilization of Circle stablecoins globally. We support the building of new applications on our platform by providing end-to-end tools and operational infrastructure that make it easier for developers to abstract away the technology intricacies of building apps on blockchain networks. These tools, such as CCTP and Circle Gas Station, lower the barriers to entry for developers and end-users, and support innovation on our network. Importantly, many of these tools are open source and permit developers to build on our network regardless of whether they have an existing Circle relationship, which helps fuel the growth of the Circle stablecoin network. We stimulate increased activity on the Circle stablecoin network by encouraging the growth of the broader Web3 ecosystem and by introducing new products and services, which enable end-users to leverage the benefits inherent in the internet financial system: transparency, increased velocity, and reduced cost, all with the programmability of money. In addition to products that we introduce ourselves, third-party-developed applications add to activity on our platform. We seek to expand our footprint to new markets, encouraging global adoption of our technology and products. We do so with a regulatory-first posture, obtaining appropriate licenses as needed. The way that we monetize our network has shifted over time, and continues to evolve. Our key product offerings are as follows: 38 Circle Stablecoins Core to our network are USDC and EURC, our regulated U.S. dollar- and euro-denominated stablecoins. We launched USDC in 2018, which is the worlds largest regulated payment stablecoin as measured by the amount of stablecoins in circulation. USDC makes the dollar digitally available via the internet, taking advantage of the internets capabilities, transparency, speed, and efficiency. In June 2022, we launched EURC utilizing the same underlying infrastructure. In July 2024, Circle Internet Financial Europe SAS achieved compliance with Markets in Crypto-Assets Regulation (MiCAR), a comprehensive European Union law that establishes a harmonized framework for crypto assets and related services across its member states. Stablecoins act as the bridge between the fiat and digital assets ecosystems. We believe the ability of Circle Mint customers to quickly and confidently move from fiat to Circle stablecoins is essential to the growth of the Circle stablecoin network. The volume of USDC minted and redeemed demonstrates the scale and resiliency of the banking infrastructure supporting our on- and off-ramps between the digital asset and fiat ecosystems. Below is a summary of USDC minted and redeemed for each of the periods presented. EURC minting and redemption was immaterial for the periods presented. For our calculation of USDC in circulation, see Key operating and financial indicatorsUSDC in circulation and average USDC in circulation, Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, (in millions) 2025 2024 2025 2024 USDC in circulation, beginning of period $ 61,333 $ 32,241 $ 43,857 $ 24,412 USDC minted 79,680 34,963 175,076 101,949 USDC redeemed (67,264) (31,735) (145,184) (90,892) Net increase in USDC in circulation 12,416 3,228 29,892 11,057 USDC in circulation, end of period $ 73,749 $ 35,469 $ 73,749 $ 35,469 All Circle stablecoins minted and outstanding are backed by at least an equivalent amount of fiat currency-denominated reserve assets that are held in accounts that are titled FBO holders of Circle stablecoins with leading financial institutions. Laws, regulations, and our operating policies are designed to ensure the capital preservation and liquidity of these reserve assets. USDC reserves are limited to cash balances held at banks and the Circle Reserve Fund. See Liquidity and capital resourcesComposition of USDC reserves for additional information regarding the Circle Reserve Fund. Circle earns reserve income on the reserve assets backing USDC in circulation, historically at interest rates close to the prevailing SOFR during the applicable periods. We term the rate of return generated on assets held in reserve as the reserve return rate. See Key operating and financial indicators for the calculation of reserve return rate. The reserve income that we generate is a function of USDC in circulation over a given period and the reserve return rate. Reserve income was 96.1% and 96.3% of Circles total revenue in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, respectively. Reserve income was 99.9% and 99.0% of Circles total revenue in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024, respectively. Reserve Return Rate (in percentages) Reserve Return Rate Quarterly Avg. SOFR Quarterly Avg. 3Mo T-Bill 1Q24 5.13 5.31 5.23 2Q24 5.17 5.32 5.25 3Q24 5.11 5.28 5.00 4Q24 4.49 4.68 4.40 1Q25 4.16 4.33 4.21 2Q25 4.14 4.32 4.23 3Q25 4.15 4.33 4.10 39 Other products In addition to Circle stablecoins, we continue to expand product offerings that benefit from and support the growth of the Circle stablecoin network. Our other products contributed between 0.1% and 3.9% of Circles total revenue in both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We believe these and other new product offerings will contribute to the growth of the Circle stablecoin network, and over time drive a flywheel of growth that has been the hallmark of successful internet-driven networks. We also expect growth in our network to drive increases in USDC in circulation and thereby drive our reserve income. We anticipate growing these offerings in the coming years, diversifying our revenue profile. These offerings include: Arc Arc is an open Layer-1 blockchain purpose-built to unite programmable money and onchain innovation with real-world economic activity. Arc is designed for compatibility to multiple forms of digital money and tokenized value and will provide stablecoin issuers and builders with a robust environment to launch, collaborate, and scale. Circle Payments Network Circle Payments Network (CPN) is an innovative platform for financial institutions to use stablecoins for payments. CPN connects financial institutions to enable faster, lower-cost, and more transparent, real-time cross-border payments using USDC, EURC, and other regulated payment stablecoins. Developer Services Our Developer Services products include an array of developer-ready and enterprise-grade infrastructure services that developers can plug into their own applications. These solutions can be delivered via API to companies seeking to introduce developer capabilities to their customer bases. Examples of products we have recently launched include Circle Wallets, Circle Contracts, Circle Paymaster, and CCTP. We have developed and continue to develop additional features for our Circle Wallets, including our gas fee infrastructure, a collection of blockchain network infrastructure and open-source smart contracts that streamlines the end-user experience by supporting the payment of transaction fees on supported blockchains in USDC, thus removing the need to pay fees in each blockchains native token. CCTP is a permissionless protocol that enables USDC to flow natively across supported blockchains and provides interoperability to blockchains that have historically been siloed due to incompatible protocols and supported tokens. CCTP empowers developers to offer greater utility in their applications by seamlessly operating across different blockchain networks. Integration Services We earn integration services and maintenance revenue by connecting and integrating Circle products such as USDC across blockchain networks. In exchange for a fee, we assist third-party public blockchains with the implementation of Circle stablecoins, the integration of Circle Mint and maintenance related to the Circle stablecoin network on their blockchains. Tokenized Funds As a result of our acquisition of Hashnote in January 2025, we issue USYCa leading TMMF. We believe that by integrating USYC with our existing infrastructure, we can enhance its interoperability across multiple public blockchains and enable near-instantaneous conversion with Circle stablecoins, allowing traders to hold their assets or pledge collateral in TMMFs while accruing yield and then be able to near-instantaneously convert into stablecoins, which can be used to purchase other digital assets. We believe that these tools greatly improve the quality of applications on our network, providing value both to the network effect that drives our growth by attracting end-users as well as to the developers that avail themselves of these offerings. We believe we can further monetize these services in the future as we continue to develop and scale them. Liquidity Services To facilitate the needs of Circle Mint and our other customers we offer services to provide liquidity on a near instant basis. We earn fees associated with the redemptions of Circle stablecoins in excess of preestablished limits. Additionally, we earn fees associated with the redemption of USYC with Circle stablecoins, providing a unique redemption option for customers that require instant liquidity. 40 We believe that these products, services, and tools greatly improve the quality of applications on our network, providing value both to the network effect that drives our growth by attracting end-users as well as to the developers that avail themselves of these offerings. We believe we can further monetize these services in the future as we continue to develop and scale them. Discontinued products As we continue to focus on our core strategy of growing the Circle stablecoin network, we have discontinued certain products that we deemed as non-core to our business. Together, these products contributed less than 1% of total revenue in both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, and we do not anticipate them to impact our future financial or operating performance. Transaction Services Transaction Services related to the processing of USDC-native payments, payouts to sellers, vendors, or end-users, ledger management, and safekeeping services. In this capacity, we operated as a payment facilitator, processing credit and debit card transactions primarily for Web3 merchants. We completed the depreciation of these services in 2024. Key Factors Affecting Operating Results The growth and success of our business as well as our financial condition and operating results have been, and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including: Growth of the internet financial system The internet financial system is built on blockchain infrastructure, and represents a fundamental shift that we believe will result in a profound change to the existing financial system by materially improving efficiency, reducing costs, expanding accessibility, and accelerating innovation. While the internet financial system has grown rapidly, it remains in its infancy and is very small relative to the legacy financial system. We believe we are well positioned to be among the winners in this emerging, transformative space, and we expect increased adoption and expansion of the internet financial system to be a key driver of growth in all our products and services, and hence of our overall financial performance. Adoption of stablecoins as the core means of value exchange within the internet financial system We believe stablecoins are the core facilitator of value exchange in the internet financial system.As of September 30, 2025, there were approximately $253.9 billion of U.S. dollar fiat-backed stablecoins with circulation above $100 million, according to CoinMarketCap, representing a 59% growth from September 30, 2024. We believe that we are poised to lead the way in driving the growth of stablecoins, with our trusted brand, regulation-first posture, robust scalable infrastructure, institutional-grade safety and soundness, and $73.7 billion of USDC in circulation across 6.3 million MeWs as of September 30, 2025. We stand to benefit as the adoption of stablecoins and the internet financial system increase, due not only to the growth in circulation of Circle stablecoins but also due to the Circle stablecoin network that we have developed. The following chart provides an overview of MeWs at quarter end for the periods presented. MeWs (in thousands) MeWs 3Q24 3,578 4Q24 4,264 1Q25 4,883 2Q25 5,660 3Q25 6,336 41 Expanding global awareness and distribution of USDC as a leading stablecoin network Access to the internet financial system transcends boundaries and borders. The growing international interest in both internet-based financial services broadlyand the Circle stablecoin network specificallyis a driver of our business. Our efforts to expand awareness and distribution of USDC follow a multi-pronged approach. We intend to continue expanding our global reach by obtaining regulatory licenses and registrations in additional jurisdictions, collaborating with strategic partners, and expanding our blockchain interoperability. We also intend to continue to invest in expanding awareness and distribution of Circle stablecoins in international markets, including through initiatives such as sponsored webinars, content sponsorship, event sponsorship, and traditional advertising (e.g., search engine marketing/retargeting), to further enhance our growth. Beyond our dedicated awareness initiatives, we continue to strive to make the Circle stablecoin network the most widely available and easy to use globally by integrating into many major blockchain protocols, which we believe will enhance both demand and distribution of Circle stablecoins. We expect increased awareness and interest in Circle stablecoins, including both increasing penetration among our existing markets and expansion into new markets, to positively impact our performance. Strategic partnerships fostering the Circle stablecoin network Another core facet of our strategy is to complement our products and services with enterprise-level strategic commercial partnerships, with the goal of driving growth in the distribution and adoption of Circle stablecoins. Through these partnerships, we enable companies to offer internet-native financial services to their own customers, to the benefit of our overall network. In addition to our international partnerships with major consumer and technology brands, we partnered with Visa to enable the use of USDC within its payments network, and with MoneyGram to support the use of USDC for global remittances on the Stellar blockchain, among others. These partnerships are still in early stages, but we expect that they will contribute meaningfully to our operating and financial performance over time. We have also partnered with Coinbase to provide seamless access within its platform to convert between fiat currency and USDC and with Binance to make USDC more extensively available across its full suite of products and services and adopt USDC as a dollar stablecoin for its corporate treasury. We plan to continue to enter into strategic partnerships like these to expand our product offerings and amplify the network effect inherent in our business. In addition, we may enter into such arrangements where we incentivize the use of USDC and participate in the ecosystem. We believe each of these partnerships helps to foster broader access to Circle stablecoins and the internet financial system. These partnerships enable awareness and access of the Circle stablecoin network by new end-users who may otherwise not directly be reached, while benefiting existing end-users by expanding the opportunities for internet-based commerce. We expect these partnerships will drive greater circulation, adoption, and use of Circle stablecoins over time. Growth in new products and services We believe we have a sizable opportunity to grow our business through the introduction of new products and services. Our blockchain infrastructure and Developer Services provide platforms upon which third-party software developers can build and create their own products and financial applications. For example, we launched our CCTP V1 offering in early 2023 and have already seen significant growth. In early 2025, we launched CCTP V2, a fast version of CCTP that accrues revenue when a customer elects the fast transfer feature. As of September 30, 2025, CCTP V1 and CCTP V2 enabled 380 routes and handled approximately $88.8 billion in transfers. In the third quarter of 2025, CCTP represented nearly 50% of all bridged volume of all assets across major bridge providers. In April 2025, we announced the Circle Payments Network (CPN) to connect financial institutions banks, neo-banks, payment service providers, virtual asset service providers and digital wallets and enable real-time settlement of cross-border payments using regulated stablecoins. In August 2025, we introduced Arc, a new open Layer-1 blockchain engineered for enterprise adoption. We continue to develop our blockchain infrastructure and Developer Services products, facilitating the development of new third-party products for the internet financial system, which we expect will in turn increase demand for Circle stablecoins and serve as a critical driver to the growth of our network. We anticipate that the products developed on our platform will drive new sources of revenue, including network service fees and additional Developer Services fees. 42 Interest rate fluctuations We derive the majority of our revenue from reserve income. Fluctuations in interest rates impact reserve return rates, such that a decrease in interest rates reduces reserve return rates and an increase in interest rates increases reserve return rates. Reserve return rate is a contributing factor to reserve income. As such, fluctuations in interest rates may result in changes in reserve income. However, interest rates are only one contributor to reserve income, and the other primary contributorUSDC in circulationis inherently difficult to predict given the uncertainties in end-user and customer behavior. For example, although interest rates are positively correlated with the opportunity cost of holding USDC versus other financial instruments, given the utility of USDC as a means for the exchange of value, an increase in interest rates does not necessarily result in a decrease in USDC in circulation (and vice versa). Any relationship between interest rates and USDC in circulation is complex, highly uncertain, and unproven. As a result, while we are able to predict the impact of interest rate changes on the reserve return rate, given uncertainties in end-user and customer behavior and interests and market dynamics, we are unable to accurately predict the impact of such changes on reserve income. Distribution costs Our distribution costs have a meaningful impact on our financial performance. Prior to August 2023, distribution costs were primarily a function of (i) the amount of USDC distributed by Circle and Coinbase and (ii) the amount of USDC held on each respective partys platform. Specifically, we shared any revenue generated from USDC reserves pro rata based on the amount of USDC distributed by each respective party and the amount of USDC held on each respective partys platform in relation to the total amount of USDC in circulation. In August 2023, we and Coinbase entered into a Collaboration Agreement, under which we make payments to Coinbase for its role in the distribution of USDC and growth in the USDC ecosystem. These payments are determined based on the daily income generated from the reserves backing USDC, less the management fees charged by non-affiliated third parties for managing such reserves (such as asset management and custody fees) and certain other expenses, which is referred to as the payment base. From this payment base, (i) we retain a portion ranging from an annualized low-double-digit basis point to high tenth of a basis point based on the amount of USDC in circulation on such day, in consideration of our role as stablecoin issuer and which is designed to partially reimburse us for indirect costs of issuing stablecoins and the management of the associated reserves, such as maintaining our accounting, treasury, regulatory, and compliance functions (the issuer retention), (ii) we and Coinbase each receive an amount equal to the remaining payment base multiplied by the percentage of such stablecoin that is held in the applicable partys custodial products or managed wallet services at the end of such day, and (iii) after deducting amounts payable to other approved participants in the USDC ecosystem, Coinbase receives 50% of the remaining payment base. As a result, the greater the proportion of USDC in circulation held on Coinbases platform, the greater the proportion of reserve income payable to Coinbase. Conversely, the greater the proportion of USDC in circulation held on our platform or held outside of Circle and Coinbase platforms, the smaller the proportion of reserve income payable to Coinbase. As a result, distribution costs are impacted by the actions and policies of Coinbase and their effects on the amount of USDC in circulation held on Coinbases platform, which we do not control or oversee. As of September 30, 2025 and 2024, the percentage of USDC in circulation held on Circles platform was approximately 14% and 2%, respectively; based on information provided to us by Coinbase, the percentage of USDC in circulation held on Coinbases platform was approximately 24% and 23%, respectively; and the percentage of USDC in circulation held outside Circles and Coinbases platforms was approximately 62% and 75%, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, the daily weighted-average percentage of USDC in circulation held on Circles platform was approximately 9% and 2%, respectively; based on information provided to us by Coinbase, the daily weighted-average percentage of USDC in circulation held on Coinbases platform was approximately 22% and 17%, respectively; and the daily weighted-average percentage of USDC in circulation held outside Circles and Coinbases platforms was approximately 69% and 81%, respectively. In addition, we and Coinbase may agree to pay a portion of the residual payment base to approved participants to incentivize the circulation of stablecoins, which may impact our distribution costs. We have added and expect to continue to add additional distributors in the future and anticipate that such distribution contracts may have different commercial terms depending on negotiations with our distributors and the circumstances in our evolving industry. Government regulation At Circle, we have always had a regulation-first philosophy that underlies our operations and has led to significant investments in building a robust compliance infrastructure. However, the laws and regulations to which we are subject are rapidly evolving and increasing in scope. As a result, we monitor regulatory changes closely and we expect to continue to invest significant resources in our legal, compliance, product, and engineering teams to ensure our business practices comply with, and plan and prepare for, current and future regulations. 43 Certain major economies across the globe (such as the United States, European Union, Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore) have passed national laws regulating stablecoins. Other leading economies (such as the United Arab Emirates) are actively considering comprehensive rules to integrate stablecoins into their financial system. Notably, the United States has recently enacted the Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act of 2025 Act (the GENIUS Act), marking a significant milestone in the establishment of a clear regulatory framework for stablecoins. This legislation is expected to provide increased certainty for market participants and accelerate institutional adoption. We believe increased global regulatory clarity will result in increased conviction in stablecoins by consumers and enterprises alike, which will drive adoption in using stablecoins as digital currencies. We believe these trends will naturally increase the growth of the Circle stablecoin network as the leading regulatorily compliant player in the space. Significant Transactions Initial Public Offering In June 2025, the Company completed its IPO, in which the Company issued and sold 19.9 million shares of its Class A common stock at a public offering price of $31.00 per share, which resulted in net proceeds to the Company of $583.0 million after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and before deducting offering costs of $12.8 million. In connection with the IPO, all shares of our outstanding redeemable convertible preferred stock automatically converted into a total of 139.8 million shares of Class A common stock, and a total of 19.6 million shares of Class A common stock held by our co-founders and certain entities controlled by our co-founders were converted into an equivalent number of shares of Class B common stock. Certain of our restricted stock units granted to employees included both a service condition and a liquidity-event related performance condition. The performance condition related to these awards was met upon the commencement of trading of our Class A common stock on the NYSE, and the Company recognized $423.8 million of stock-based compensation expense, net of $62.7 million of capitalized costs related to internally developed software, for the vesting of approximately 9.5 million shares of Class A common stock, 4.0 million of which were withheld for tax withholding requirements. Follow-on Public Offering In August 2025, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of its Class A common stock, in which the Company issued and sold 3.5 million shares of its Class A common stock, including the underwriters over-allotment option which was exercised in full, at a public offering price of $130.00 per share. This resulted in net proceeds to the Company of $444.8 million after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and before deducting offering costs of $1.8 million, which were charged to additional paid-in capital as a reduction of the net proceeds received from the follow-on public offering. Hashnote Acquisition In January 2025, we acquired 100% of the ownership interest in Hashnote, which, through its affiliates, is the fund manager of SDYF, a TMMF and the issuer of USYC. The fair value of consideration transferred for the Hashnote Acquisition was approximately $100.1 million, subject to customary adjustments, consisting of $10.2 million in cash and approximately 2.9 million shares of our Class A common stock. Key Operating and Financial Indicators We regularly review several key operating and non-GAAP financial indicators to evaluate our performance and trends and inform managements budgets, financial projections, and strategic decisions. The following table presents our key operating and financial indicators, as well as the relevant GAAP measures, for the periods indicated: CCTP 44 (in millions, except reserve return rate, daily weighted-average percentage of USDC on platform and stablecoin market share) Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 Key operating data: USDC in circulation, end of period $ 73,749 $ 35,469 $ 73,749 $ 35,469 Average USDC in circulation $ 67,842 $ 34,475 $ 61,069 $ 31,757 Reserve return rate 4.2 % 5.1 % 4.2 % 5.1 % USDC on platform, end of period $ 10,234 $ 743 $ 10,234 $ 743 Daily weighted-average percentage of USDC on platform 13.5 % 1.8 % 8.9 % 2.1 % USDC minted $ 79,680 $ 34,963 $ 175,076 $ 101,949 USDC redeemed $ 67,264 $ 31,735 $ 145,184 $ 90,892 Stablecoin market share, end of period 29 % 23 % 29 % 23 % Meaningful Wallets, end of period 6.34 3.58 6.34 3.58 GAAP financial data: Total revenue and reserve income $ 740 $ 446 $ 1,976 $ 1,241 Net income (loss) from continuing operations $ 214 $ 71 $ (203) $ 153 Non-GAAP financial data: Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 166 $ 93 $ 415 $ 252 (1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss) from continuing operations. USDC in circulationand average USDC in circulation USDC in circulation is the total amount of USDC minted and outstanding as of the end of the reporting period. Average USDC in circulation is calculated as the simple daily average of USDC in circulation, with the daily USDC in circulation determined at the end of each day. In each case, we exclude: tokens allowed but not issued, which are tokens that exist on the Algorand, Hedera, Polkadot, and Solana blockchains due to the technical implementation of USDC on those blockchains. These tokens are held by us in restricted, segregated tokens allowed but not issued blockchain addresses. We do not receive any funds for their creation, and they are not redeemable for the U.S. dollar. These tokens are restricted for use while held in such blockchain addresses. These tokens cannot be redeemed for the U.S. dollar as the private keys are securely controlled by us and the blockchain addresses are not configured to allow redemption requests to be established by Circle Mint. When a minting request is received for USDC on these blockchains and the funds underlying such request is received, the corresponding amount of tokens allowed but not issued is transferred from the segregated tokens allowed but not issued addresses to the minting address via a system controlled process administered by us, at which point the tokens are considered to be USDC in circulation. access denied tokens, which are tokens that are restricted from being accessed by the holder to comply with a law, regulation, or legal order from a duly recognized and authorized court of competent jurisdiction, or governmental or other authority with jurisdiction over the Company. When these tokens were originally issued (i.e., before they were restricted from being accessed), we received the equivalent amount of fiat currency in connection with their original minting. Upon determination that a token should be an access denied token, we restrict the access of the holder to such token and transfer the reserves relating to such token to a segregated bank account specifically for access denied tokens. The assets in such segregated bank account constitute a component of USDC reserves, and we do not extinguish the associated liability until the segregated reserve funds are transferred to the relevant law enforcement agency or government body or until the access denial request is reversed and a subsequent redemption request is made by the stablecoin holder. As of September 30, 2025 and 2024, there were $114.3 million and $86.6 million of access denied tokens, respectively. pending burns, which are USDC balances held within Circle smart contracts that are pending finalization on the blockchain. We exclude these tokens because these tokens are not used for transactions or subject to smart contract restrictions and thus do not reflect the Circle stablecoin ecosystems breadth, which as noted below, is the principal purpose for which we present USDC in circulation and average USDC in circulation. 45 USDC in circulation and average USDC in circulation include corporate-held USDC (i.e., USDC held by us), as we routinely use USDC to pay for distribution, transaction, and other costs as well as operating expenses and thus corporate-held USDC contributes to the Circle stablecoin ecosystems breadth, which as noted below, is the principal purpose for which we present USDC in circulation and average USDC in circulation. As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, there was $837.1 million and $294.5 million of corporate-held USDC, respectively. USDC in circulation and average USDC in circulation are major contributing factors to our reserve income and also provide a measure of the Circle stablecoin ecosystems breadth. We expect that the continued growth and development of the internet financial system will further drive increases in USDC in circulation and average USDC in circulation. Reserve return rate Reserve return rate is the rate of return generated on assets held in reserve. Reserve return rate is calculated as our reserve income divided by the average period balance of reserves segregated for the benefit of holders of Circle stablecoins, with average period balance of reserves segregated for the benefit of holders of Circle stablecoins measured as the simple daily average of reserves segregated for the benefit of holders of Circle stablecoins, with daily average of reserves segregated for the benefit of holders of Circle stablecoins determined at the end of each day. Reserve return rate is a major determinant of our reserve income. USDC on platform and daily weighted-average percentage of USDC on platform USDC on platform is defined as the total amount of USDC on Circles platform, which includes USDC held within Circle Mint accounts, corporate-held USDC, and USDC held within non-custodial wallets offered through the Circle platform (including Circles managed wallet services such as Circle Wallets and other wallet technologies). USDC on platform provides a measure of the Circle platforms breadth and is also used to calculate Circles share of reserve income under the Collaboration Agreement. Daily weighted-average percentage of USDC on platform is defined as the average of the percentage of USDC in circulation that is held on Circles platform at the end of each day, weighted based on the amount of USDC in circulation at the end of each day. Percentage of USDC on platform at the end of each day is used to calculate Circles share of reserve income under the Collaboration Agreement. USDC minted / USDC redeemed USDC minted / USDC redeemed measures USDC on-ramp activity (i.e., flow of U.S. dollar fiat converted to USDC) and off-ramp activity (i.e., flow of USDC converted to U.S. dollar fiat) initiated by Circle Mint customers. We believe this demonstrates our operational capacity and resiliency to process minting and redemptions through our digital and banking infrastructure. USDC minted / USDC redeemed do not represent the amount of USDC acquired or redeemed by end-users. Stablecoin market share Stablecoin market share is defined as the amount of USDC in circulation as a percentage of the total U.S. dollar fiat-backed stablecoins with circulation above $100 million (i.e., digital assets pegged to the value of a fiat currency), according to CoinMarketCap. Stablecoin market share reflects how much of the stablecoin market is composed of USDC relative to the competitive landscape. Since 2021, Circle has been the second-largest issuer of U.S. dollar fiat-backed stablecoins as measured by the amount of stablecoins in circulation, and as of September 30, 2025, Circle holds a 29% stablecoin market share. Meaningful Wallets MeWs are defined as the number of onchain digital asset wallets with an amount of USDC above $10. As a single end-user may have multiple onchain digital asset wallets, MeWs do not represent, and we do not use MeWs as a measure of, the number of unique end-users with more than $10 of USDC. Nonetheless, we believe that MeWs is an indicator of the breadth of USDCs adoption. 46 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated as net income (loss) from continuing operations excluding: depreciation and amortization expenses; interest expense, net of amortization of discounts and premiums; interest income; income tax expense (benefit); stock-based compensation expense; certain legal expenses; realized and unrealized (gains) losses, net, on digital assets held for investment, other related investments and strategic investments; realized (gains) losses on available-for-sale debt securities; impairment losses on strategic investments; restructuring expenses; acquisition-related costs; change in fair value of convertible debt, warrant liability, and embedded derivatives; losses on sale of long-lived assets; and foreign currency exchange (gain) loss. Adjusted EBITDA is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to monitor and evaluate the growth and performance of our business operations, facilitate internal comparisons of the historical operating performance of our business operations, facilitate external comparisons of the results of our overall business to the historical operating performance of other companies that may have different capital structures or operating histories, review and assess the performance of our management team and other employees, and prepare budgets and evaluate strategic planning decisions regarding future operating investments. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss) from continuing operations, the most closely comparable GAAP measure, and additional information about the limitations of our non-GAAP measures. Key Components of Revenue and Expenses Revenue and reserve income Reserve income We mint Circle stablecoins when we receive the corresponding fiat funds from Circle Mint customers, which are placed into accounts that are titled FBO holders of USDC and EURC, respectively. Similarly, upon receipt of a redemption request from a Circle Mint customer with respect to USDC or EURC in such customers account, we remove such stablecoins from such customers account and transfer the corresponding fiat funds from the segregated reserve accounts to such customers bank account. As required by MiCAR, end-users that are not Circle Mint customers may also redeem USDC or EURC directly from us after providing us with compliance information and supporting documentation by sending the tokens to a designated deposit address, at which point we transfer the corresponding fiat funds from the segregated reserve accounts to such end-users bank account (see GlossaryThe issuers of Circle stablecoins). We earn interest and dividends on assets held in reserve accounts, which for the periods presented included cash balances held at banks, short-dated U.S. Treasury securities, and the Circle Reserve Fund, as applicable. Interest income is recognized under the effective interest method, and dividend income is recognized when declared. Reserve income is recorded on a gross basis before the impact of any distribution costs. An increase in the amount of Circle stablecoins in circulation (i.e., the amount of stablecoins minted is greater than the amount of stablecoins redeemed) would increase the amount of assets held in reserve accounts, and thus, assuming a constant reserve return rate, would result in increased reserve income. Conversely, a decrease in the amount of Circle stablecoins in circulation (i.e., the amount of stablecoins redeemed is greater than the amount of stablecoins minted) would decrease the amount of assets held in reserve accounts, and thus, assuming a constant reserve return rate, would result in decreased reserve income. Other revenue Other revenue consists of revenues generated from products and services that increase the utility of Circle stablecoins and related transactional or wallet infrastructure. The components of other revenue primarily include subscription and services revenue, transaction revenue and other revenues. Subscription and services consists of customer agreements where recurring revenue is generated from integration and maintenance services, fund management, time-based access, and user-based licensing. Transaction revenue is generated from usage-based, volume-based, or event-driven transactions. This includes fees associated with the redemption of Circle stablecoins and USYC, blockchain rewards revenue and use of Circle infrastructure in facilitating digital asset transactions. Other is primarily generated from fees associated with certain non-recurring services and discontinued legacy products. 47 Distribution, transaction, and other costs Distribution costs We incur distribution costs to incentivize distributors to use and distribute Circle stablecoins. Prior to August 2023, distribution costs were primarily a function of (i) the amount of USDC distributed by Circle and Coinbase and (ii) the amount of USDC held on each respective partys platform. Specifically, we shared any revenue generated from USDC reserves pro rata based on the amount of USDC distributed by each respective party and the amount of USDC held on each respective partys platform in relation to the total amount of USDC in circulation. In August 2023, we and Coinbase entered into a Collaboration Agreement, under which we make payments to Coinbase for its role in the distribution of USDC and growth in the USDC ecosystem. These payments are determined based on the daily income generated from the reserves backing USDC, less the management fees charged by non-affiliated third parties for managing such reserves (such as asset management and custody fees) and certain other expenses, which is referred to as the payment base. From this payment base, (i) we retain a portion ranging from an annualized low-double-digit basis point to high tenth of a basis point based on the amount of USDC in circulation on such day, in consideration of our role as stablecoin issuer (the issuer retention), (ii) we and Coinbase each receive an amount equal to the remaining payment base multiplied by the percentage of such stablecoin that is held in the applicable partys custodial products or managed wallet services at the end of such day, and (iii) after deducting amounts payable to other approved participants in the USDC ecosystem, Coinbase receives 50% of the remaining payment base. The issuer retention is designed to partially reimburse us for indirect costs of issuing stablecoins and the management of the associated reserves, such as maintaining our accounting, treasury, regulatory, and compliance functions, which are generally recognized in various operating expenses including compensation expenses and general and administrative expenses in our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. These deductions are accounted for as components of the overall arrangement with Coinbase as we are not providing a distinct service to issue stablecoins and manage the associated reserves. The Collaboration Agreement is accounted for as an executory contract and reflected in distribution and transaction costs in our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, we incurred $989.1 million and $687.4 million, respectively, of distribution costs in connection with our agreements with Coinbase. We expect our distribution expense to increase in the future, as we add distributors and approved participants. Our distribution expense will also increase to the extent our reserve income increases over time. We also anticipate new distribution arrangements may differ depending on our negotiations with our distributors and the circumstances in our evolving industry. Transaction costs We also incur transaction costs to pay for the blockchain network transaction fees necessary to complete transactions on supported blockchains. For a given blockchain, we purchase the necessary digital assets in advance and, upon initiation of a transaction, we pay blockchain transactions fees using our inventory of digital assets. We expect this expense to increase going forward due to increases in volume and rising fees on certain popular blockchain networks. Other costs Other costs primarily comprise expenses incurred as a result of facilitating and delivering products and services, including the certain fees related to the issuance of USYC and other costs to participate in activities that enhance the utility of Circle stablecoins and our infrastructure. Other than distribution, transaction, and other costs, we do not incur distinct costs to mint and/or redeem stablecoins. Operating expenses Compensation expenses Compensation expenses are primarily driven by employee compensation, including salaries and wages, stock-based compensation, bonuses, post-retirement benefits, commissions, and severance payments. As we expand our business and team, we expect compensation expenses to increase. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses include costs incurred to support our business operations. Specifically, expenses incurred related to insurance policies, dues and subscriptions, professional services, bank fees, rent, and travel and business lodging. We expect general and administrative expenses to grow as we continue to invest to support the overall growth of our business. 48 Depreciation and amortization expenses Depreciation and amortization expenses are incurred primarily from the amortization of internally developed software. We also incur amortization expense from the amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and asset acquisitions such as the technology platform, customer relationships, brand names, and licenses. We expect that our depreciation and amortization expenses will increase in future periods as we continue to invest in the development of our various digital platforms. IT infrastructure costs IT infrastructure costs include costs incurred in operating and maintaining our platform, including network, website hosting, and infrastructure costs. IT infrastructure costs also include software and technology costs incurred to support our general business operations including cloud hosting costs, cybersecurity, electronic communications archiving software, change management, and compliance technology such as AML and KYC software. Marketing expenses Marketing expenses are incurred to drive additional customers to our platform, capitalize on cross-sell opportunities from our customer base, and build awareness of our products and brand with the objective of growing our customer base. Digital assets (gains) losses Effective January 1, 2024, upon the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2023-08, Accounting for and Disclosure of Crypto Assets (ASU 2023-08), digital assets are measured at fair value. Fair value measurements for digital assets are based on quoted market prices in active markets. Gains and losses upon sale of digital assets are measured as the difference between the cash proceeds and the carrying basis of the digital assets as determined on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis for each pool of digital assets. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net, is composed of multiple income (expense) categories, including, but not limited to, the following: Realized and unrealized gains (losses) on liabilities at fair value (e.g., convertible debt, warrants, derivatives, and embedded derivatives); Realized and unrealized gains (losses) on investments, which include changes in fair value related to our marketable equity securities, digital assets held for investment and observable price changes on our non-marketable equity securities; Impairment losses on equity investments; Interest income on corporate cash balances; Interest expense, net of accretion of discounts and amortization of premiums; and Foreign currency exchange gains and losses due to remeasurement of certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Income tax expense (benefit) Income tax expense (benefit) includes income taxes related to foreign jurisdictions and U.S. Federal and state income taxes. As we conduct business activities internationally, any changes in the U.S. and foreign taxation of such activities may increase our overall provision for income taxes in the future. Results of Operations We discuss our historical results of operations below on a consolidated basis. The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations for the periods indicated, and the changes between periods. These results of operations have been prepared on the same basis as our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. In the opinion of management, the financial information set forth in the table below reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for the fair statement of results of operations for these periods. The following unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations should be read together with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. 49 Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue and reserve income Reserve income $ 711,241 $ 445,215 $ 266,026 59.8 % Other revenue 28,518 547 27,971 n.m Total revenue and reserve income 739,759 445,762 293,997 66.0 % Distribution, transaction and other costs Distribution and transaction costs 447,199 257,422 189,777 73.7 % Other costs 413 281 132 47.0 % Total distribution, transaction and other costs 447,612 257,703 189,909 73.7 % Operating expenses Compensation expenses 129,295 65,269 64,026 98.1 % General and administrative expenses 45,477 33,337 12,140 36.4 % Depreciation and amortization expenses 23,002 13,122 9,880 75.3 % IT infrastructure costs 9,401 6,865 2,536 36.9 % Marketing expenses 5,623 4,382 1,241 28.3 % Digital assets (gains) losses (1,671) 1,285 (2,956) 230.0 % Total operating expenses 211,127 124,260 86,867 69.9 % Operating income from continuing operations 81,020 63,799 17,221 27.0 % Other (expense) income, net 72,071 22,365 49,706 222.2 % Net income from continuing operations before income taxes 153,091 86,164 66,927 77.7 % Income tax expense (benefit) (61,294) 15,168 (76,462) 504.1 % Net income from continuing operations $ 214,385 $ 70,996 $ 143,389 202.0 % Revenue and reserve income Reserve income. Reserve income increased by $266.0 million, or 59.8%, for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024, of which approximately $388.1 million of the increase is attributable to a 96.1% increase in average daily USDC in circulation reflecting increased demand for Circle stablecoins related to digital asset trading activity, market share gains as we continue to grow in key markets, as well as expanded strategic partnerships and integrations. This was offset by a decrease of approximately $122.0 million attributable to a 96 basis point decline in the average yields reflecting interest rate actions undertaken by the U.S. Federal Reserve. Other revenue. Other revenue increased by $28.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to a $27.3 million increase driven by additional integration services performed, fund management fees, blockchain rewards revenue, and redemption fees related to our Tokenized Funds and Circle stablecoins, offset by a $0.4 million decrease in other fees generated from other legacy products. Distribution, transaction and other costs Distribution and transaction costs. Distribution and transaction costs increased by $189.8 million, or 73.7%, for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024, primarily driven by a $109.8 million increase in distribution costs paid to Coinbase as a combined result of increased reserve income and their average on-platform balances, along with a $79.6 million increase in other distribution costs related to other strategic distribution partnerships. Other costs. Other costs remained flat for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024. 50 Operating Expenses Compensation expenses. Compensation expenses increased by $64.0 million, or 98.1%, for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024, primarily driven by $46.3 million increase of stock-based compensation expense related to the vesting of RSUs for which, the service-based condition had been met prior to the IPO and the liquidity-event related performance condition was met upon the commencement of trading of our Class A common stock on the NYSE. In addition, there was an increase of $9.8 million in salaries, wages and bonus expenses due to an increase in average headcount, as well as a $6.6 million increase in payroll taxes, primarily related to the vesting of RSUs. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $12.1 million or 36.4%, for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to a $3.3 million increase in contributions, a $3.2 million increase in legal, professional and consulting fees, a $2.2 million increase in business insurance costs, and a $1.7 million increase in travel and entertainment costs due to Company events and associated travel expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $9.9 million or 75.3%, for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to a $9.6 million increase in amortization expense of internally developed software. IT infrastructure costs. IT infrastructure costs increased by $2.5 million, or 36.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to a $2.6 million increase in software licenses to support infrastructure build-out and enhanced product offerings. Marketing expenses. Marketing expenses increased by $1.2 million, or 28.3%, for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to three months ended September 30, 2024, primarily driven by a $1.6 million increased spending in marketing, advertising and conference expenses, offset by a decrease in sponsorship campaigns. Digital assets (gains) losses. Digital assets (gains) losses changed by $3.0 million, or 230.0%, for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to changes in the prices of digital assets driven by market fluctuations and increased holdings in digital assets. Other (expense) income, net. Other (expense) income, net changed by $49.7 million, or 222.2%, for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to a $48.1 million decrease in the fair value of our convertible debt driven by a decline in the price of our Class A common stock since the end of the second quarter of 2025. Income tax expense (benefit). Income tax expense (benefit) decreased by $76.5 million or 504.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily driven by stock-based compensation deductions and the enactment of the OBBBA, which provided immediate deductibility of domestic R&D costs. In addition, R&D tax credits increased, further contributing to the reduction in income tax expense for the current period. 51 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue and reserve income Reserve income $ 1,903,426 $ 1,228,117 $ 675,309 55.0 % Other revenue 72,984 12,769 60,215 471.6 % Total revenue and reserve income 1,976,410 1,240,886 735,524 59.3 % Distribution, transaction and other costs Distribution and transaction costs 1,200,983 707,065 493,918 69.9 % Other costs 1,218 5,752 (4,534) (78.8) % Total distribution, transaction and other costs 1,202,201 712,817 489,384 68.7 % Operating expenses Compensation expenses 708,307 194,022 514,285 265.1 % General and administrative expenses 119,301 99,583 19,718 19.8 % Depreciation and amortization expenses 51,091 37,347 13,744 36.8 % IT infrastructure costs 25,833 20,074 5,759 28.7 % Marketing expenses 17,393 10,838 6,555 60.5 % Digital assets (gains) losses 3,906 (159) 4,065 n.m Total operating expenses 925,831 361,705 564,126 156.0 % Operating income (loss) from continuing operations (151,622) 166,364 (317,986) (191.1) % Other (expense) income, net (91,453) 44,843 (136,296) (303.9) % Net income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (243,075) 211,207 (454,282) (215.1) % Income tax expense (benefit) (40,151) 58,649 (98,800) 168.5 % Net income (loss) from continuing operations $ (202,924) $ 152,558 $ (355,482) (233.0) % Revenue and reserve income Reserve income. Reserve income increased by $675.3 million, or 55.0%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2024, of which approximately $1.0 billion of the increase is attributable to a 91.6% increase in average daily USDC in circulation reflecting increased demand for Circle stablecoins related to digital asset trading activity, market share gains as we continue to grow in key markets, as well as expanded strategic partnerships and integrations. This was offset by a decrease of approximately $342.5 million which was attributable to 99 basis point decline in the average yields reflecting interest rate actions undertaken by the U.S. Federal Reserve. Other revenue. Other revenue increased by $60.2 million, or 471.6%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to a $63.0 million increase driven by additional integration services performed, fund management fees, blockchain rewards revenue, and redemption fees related to our Tokenized Funds and Circle stablecoins, offset by a $5.8 million decrease in other fees generated from other legacy products. Distribution, transaction and other costs Distribution and transaction costs. Distribution and transaction costs increased by $493.9 million, or 69.9%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily driven by a $301.7 million increase in distribution costs paid to Coinbase as a combined result of increased reserve income and their average on-platform balances, along with a $190.7 million increase in other distribution costs related to other strategic distribution partnerships. Other costs. Other costs decreased by $4.5 million or 78.8%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily driven by a $4.1 million decrease in the costs related to the discontinued legacy products. 52 Operating Expenses Compensation expenses. Compensation expenses increased by $514.3 million, or 265.1%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily driven by $467.8 million of stock-based compensation expense related to the vesting of RSUs for which, the service-based condition had been met prior to the IPO and the liquidity-event related performance condition was met upon the commencement of trading of our Class A common stock on the NYSE. In addition, there was an increase of $29.5 million in salaries, wages, and bonus expenses due to an increase in average headcount, as well as a $15.1 million increase in payroll taxes, primarily related to the vesting of RSUs. General and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $19.7 million, or 19.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to a $9.5 million increase in contributions, a $5.1 million increase in travel and entertainment costs due to Company events and associated travel expenses, and a $1.6 million increase in business insurance costs. Depreciation and amortization expenses. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $13.7 million, or 36.8%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to a $14.7 million increase in amortization expense of internally developed software, offset by a $1.6 million decrease in amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. IT infrastructure costs. IT infrastructure costs increased $5.8 million, or 28.7%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to a $6.3 million increase in software licenses to support infrastructure build-out and enhanced product offerings. Marketing expenses. Marketing expenses increased by $6.6 million, or 60.5%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily driven by $7.0 million increased spending in marketing, advertising and sponsorship campaigns. Digital assets (gains) losses. Digital assets (gains) losses changed by $4.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to changes in the prices of digital assets driven by market fluctuations and increased holdings in digital assets. Other (expense) income, net. Other (expense) income, net changed by $136.3 million, or 303.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily due to a $119.5 million increase in the fair value of our convertible debt driven by an increase in the price of our Class A common stock, Income tax expense (benefit). Income tax expense (benefit) decreased by $98.8 million, or 168.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2024. The decrease was primarily driven by stock-based compensation deductions and the enactment of the OBBBA which provided immediate deductibility of domestic R&D costs. In addition, R&D tax credits increased further contributing to the reduction in income tax expense for the current period. Changes in Financial Position The following table sets forth a summary of selected line items from our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets for the periods indicated, and the changes between periods. These selected line items have been prepared on the same basis as our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. In the opinion of management, the financial information set forth in the table below reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for the fair statement of changes in the selected line items for these periods. The following selected line items should be read together with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. 53 (in thousands, except percentage information) September 30, 2025 December 31, 2024 $ Change % Change (unaudited) ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents (including cash and cash equivalents segregated for corporate-held stablecoins) $ 2,186,044 $ 1,045,474 $ 1,140,570 109.1 % Cash and cash equivalents segregated for the benefit of stablecoin holders 73,372,843 43,918,572 29,454,271 67.1 % Accounts receivable, net 22,154 6,418 15,736 245.2 % Stablecoins receivable, net 1,000 6,957 (5,957) (85.6) % Prepaid expenses and other current assets 321,343 187,528 133,815 71.4 % Non-current assets: Investments 81,781 84,114 (2,333) (2.8) % Fixed assets, net 23,486 18,682 4,804 25.7 % Digital assets 51,550 31,330 20,220 64.5 % Goodwill 266,384 169,544 96,840 57.1 % Intangible assets, net 411,990 331,394 80,596 24.3 % Deferred tax assets, net 13,414 10,223 3,191 31.2 % Other non-current assets 25,797 20,615 5,182 25.1 % LIABILITIES, REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Current liabilities: Deposits from stablecoin holders $ 73,267,103 $ 43,727,363 $ 29,539,740 67.6 % Accounts payable and accrued expenses 268,955 287,007 (18,052) (6.3) % Convertible debt, net of debt discount 149,094 149,094 100.0 % Other current liabilities 16,604 16,597 7 % Non-current liabilities: Convertible debt, net of debt discount 40,717 (40,717) (100.0) % Deferred tax liabilities, net 31,345 29,559 1,786 6.0 % Other non-current liabilities 24,551 21,281 3,270 15.4 % Redeemable convertible preferred stock 1,139,765 (1,139,765) (100.0) % Stockholders equity: Additional paid-in capital 4,437,594 1,792,969 2,644,625 147.5 % Accumulated deficit (1,426,125) (1,223,213) (202,912) 16.6 % Total stockholders equity $ 3,023,356 $ 570,529 $ 2,452,827 429.9 % In accordance with applicable regulatory requirements and commercial law, for stablecoins issued and outstanding, we are generally required to hold at least an equivalent amount of fiat currency denominated assets, held in accounts that are titled FBO holders of Circle stablecoins. We may hold reserve assets segregated for the benefit of holders of Circle stablecoins in excess of deposits from holders of Circle stablecoins due to funds related to reserve income received that has not yet been transferred to corporate cash due to the timing of receipt and unprocessed customer deposits that have not yet been minted. We have access to and are entitled to the excess over redemption and customer obligations. We are not required by law or internal policy to maintain any such excess. 54 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents (including cash and cash equivalents segregated for corporate-held stablecoins). Cash and cash equivalents (including cash and cash equivalents segregated for corporate-held stablecoins) increased by $1.1 billion, or 109.1%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, primarily due to $1.0 billion cash proceeds from the issuance of common stock in connection with the IPO and the follow-on public offering, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2025. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows below for further discussion on the net cash provided by operating activities, investing activities and financing activities during the period. Cash and cash equivalents segregated for the benefit of stablecoin holders. Cash and cash equivalents segregated for the benefit of stablecoin holders increased by $29.5 billion, or 67.1%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, primarily due to a 29.9 billion increase in USDC in circulation. Refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources Composition of USDC reserves below for further discussion of the composition of the reserves. Accounts receivable, net. Accounts receivable, net increased by$15.7 million, or 245.2%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, primarily due to a $17.8 million increase in the accounts receivables related to the additional Integration Services, maintenance services and new chain launches, reduced by a $1.4 million increase in allowance for credit losses. Stablecoins receivable, net. Stablecoins receivable, net decreased by $6.0 million, or 85.6%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, due to a $7.0 million repayment of stablecoins offset by a $1.0 million increase in new stablecoin receivables. Prepaid expenses and other current assets. Prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $133.8 million, or 71.4%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, primarily due to a $82.6 million increase in the reserve income receivables and a $59.9 million increase in income tax receivables offset by a $13.8 million decrease in digital financial assets. Non-current assets Investments. Investments were relatively flat as of September 30, 2025 compared to December 31, 2024. Fixed assets, net . Fixed assets, net increased by $4.8 million, or 25.7%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, primarily due to a $4.9 million increase in costs related to construction services for our corporate office space. Digital assets. Digital assets increased by $20.2 million, or 64.5%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, primarily due to a $8.2 million increase in digital assets received for services, a $4.6 million increase in blockchain rewards revenue, a $3.7 million increase in purchases of digital assets, and a $2.9 million increase due to mark-to-market fluctuations in digital assets. Goodwill . Goodwill increased by $96.8 million, or 57.1%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, due entirely to the recognition of goodwill related to the Hashnote acquisition. Intangible assets, net. Intangible assets, net increased by $80.6 million, or 24.3%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, primarily due to a $64.5 million increase in internally developed software driven by the capitalization of stock-based compensation expense related to certain RSU awards that vested upon IPO and a $15.0 million increase due to the acquisition of intangible assets related to Malachite. Current liabilities Deposits from stablecoin holders. Deposits from stablecoin holders increased by $29.5 billion, or 67.6%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024. Refer to the Cash and cash equivalents segregated for the benefit of stablecoin holders narrative above for further discussion. Accounts payable and accrued expenses. Accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased by $18.1 million, or 6.3%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, primarily due to a $83.3 million decrease in stablecoin redemption liabilities, offset by a $43.8 million increase in accrued distribution costs and a $17.6 million increase in incentives costs. Convertible debt, net of debt discount. Convertible debt, net of debt discount increased by $108.4 million, or 266.2%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024 (classified as a non-current liability as of December 31, 2024), primarily due to an increase in the fair value of our convertible debt driven by an increase in the price of our Class A common stock. 55 Redeemable convertible preferred stock Redeemable convertible preferred stock. Redeemable convertible preferred stock decreased by $1.1 billion or 100% as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, as all shares of our outstanding redeemable convertible preferred stock automatically converted into Class A common stock in connection with the IPO. Stockholders equity Stockholders equity. Stockholders equity increased by $2.5 billion, or 429.9%, as of September 30, 2025, compared to December 31, 2024, primarily due to a $2.6 billion increase in additional paid-in capital which includes $1.1 billion from the conversion of redeemable convertible preferred stock into Class A common stock, $1.0 billion from the issuance of common stock in connection with our IPO and follow-on offering, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering costs, and $272.3 million from the issuance of common stock upon the settlement of RSUs, net of shares withheld. This is offset by the net loss of $202.9 million recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2025. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA To provide investors with additional information regarding our financial results, we have disclosed here and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net income (loss) excluding: depreciation and amortization expenses; interest expense, net of amortization of discounts and premiums; interest income; income tax expense (benefit); stock-based compensation expense; certain legal expenses; realized and unrealized (gains) losses, net, on digital assets held for investment, other related investments and strategic investments; realized (gains) losses on available-for-sale debt securities; impairment losses on strategic investments; restructuring expenses; acquisition-related costs; change in fair value of convertible debt, warrant liability, and embedded derivatives; losses on sale of long-lived assets and foreign currency exchange (gain) loss. We have provided a reconciliation below of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss) from continuing operations, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We present Adjusted EBITDA because it is a key measure used by our management and board of directors to monitor and evaluate the growth and performance of our business operations, facilitate internal comparisons of the historical operating performance of our business operations, facilitate external comparisons of the results of our overall business to the historical operating performance of other companies that may have different capital structures or operating histories, review and assess the performance of our management team and other employees, and prepare budgets and evaluate strategic planning decisions regarding future operating investments. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and board of directors. We believe it is useful to exclude non-cash charges, such as depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, and change in fair value of various financial instruments from Adjusted EBITDA because the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations. We believe it is useful to exclude income tax expense (benefit), interest income, interest expense, and non-routine items as these items are not components of our core business operations. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as a financial measure and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: Although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized may have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect capital expenditure requirements for such replacements or for new capital expenditures; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect stock-based compensation and related taxes. Stock-based compensation expense has been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a recurring expense in our business and an important part of our compensation strategy; Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital; Adjusted EBITDA excludes one-time non-routine items; and Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including various cash flow metrics, net income (loss), and our other GAAP results. 56 The following table reconciles Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), the most closely comparable GAAP financial measure, for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2025 2024 2025 2024 Net income (loss) from continuing operations $ 214,385 $ 70,996 $ (202,924) $ 152,558 Adjusted for: Depreciation and amortization expenses 23,002 13,122 51,091 37,347 Interest expense, net of amortization of discounts and premiums 354 548 1,033 1,549 Interest income (1) (13,453) (9,253) (31,370) (26,066) Income tax expense (benefit) (61,294) 15,168 (40,151) 58,649 Stock-based compensation expense 59,081 12,763 506,763 38,992 Legal expenses(2) 3,014 1,813 6,625 4,447 Realized and unrealized (gains) losses, net, on digital assets held for investment, other related investments and strategic investments (2,267) (1,955) 258 (4,994) Realized (gains) losses on available-for-sale debt securities (9) (13) Impairment losses on strategic investments 500 623 1,006 778 Restructuring expenses(3) 646 3,186 Acquisition-related costs(4) 535 Change in fair value of convertible debt, warrant liability, and embedded derivatives (56,212) (12,369) 113,894 (15,878) Losses on sale of long-lived assets 6 9 21 66 Foreign currency exchange (gain) loss (655) 1,183 7,950 1,525 Adjusted EBITDA $ 166,461 $ 93,285 $ 414,731 $ 252,146 (1)Reflects interest income from corporate cash and cash and cash equivalents balances. For the avoidance of doubt, this amount does not include the impact of reserve income. (2)Reflects litigation expenses related to the FT Partners litigation, legal and settlement expenses related to legacy businesses, and legal fees related to the one-time establishment of new governance structures to comply with U.S. regulatory requirements. Refer to Note 22 to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for a summary of certain of these legal matters. (3)Reflects one-time restructuring expenses incurred in connection with our change in domicile from the Republic of Ireland to the State of Delaware. (4)Reflects one-time legal and professional services costs related to the Hashnote acquisition. Liquidity and Capital Resources We measure liquidity in terms of our ability to fund the cash requirements of our business operations, including our working capital and capital expenditure needs and other commitments. Our recurring working capital requirements relate mainly to our cash operating costs. Our capital expenditure requirements consist mainly of software development related to our product development and are primarily dependent on the expansion of our products as well as salaries and wages of employees associated with software development projects. 57 As of September 30, 2025, we had total liquidity sources of $2.2 billion, which consisted of $1.3 billion in Cash and cash equivalents and $837.1 million in Cash and cash equivalents segregated for corporate-held stablecoins. We believe our operating cash flows, together with our total liquidity sources on hand, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least 12 months from the date of this Form 10-Q. We expect our capital expenditures and working capital requirements to continue to increase in the immediate future as we continue to invest in the expansion of our products and services. Operating payments made in the form of corporate-held stablecoins are utilized and presented in the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in the same manner as if such payments were settled in cash. Refer to Note 2 Deposits from Stablecoin Holders in the the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional details regarding the accounting for the use of corporate-held stablecoins in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Cash and cash equivalents segregated for the benefit of stablecoin holders was $73.4 billion and $43.9 billion as of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively. This represents cash and cash equivalents maintained in segregated reserve accounts. We segregate the use of the assets underlying the customer funds to meet regulatory requirements and classify the assets as current based on their purpose and availability to fulfill our direct obligation under custodial funds due to stablecoin holders. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Composition of USDC Reserves Circle manages its USDC reserves in accordance with the terms of its agreement with Circle Mint customers and applicable regulatory requirements and commercial laws. All USDC minted and outstanding are backed by an equivalent amount of U.S. dollar-denominated assets held in accounts that are titled FBO holders of USDC, and are held in omnibus structures, agnostic to individual customer and customer jurisdiction. As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, USDC reserves held as cash balances at banks (labeled as Cash in the table below) significantly exceeded the FDIC insurance limit of $250,000 per financial institution. As of September 30, 2025 and December 31, 2024, FDIC deposit insurance related to financial institutions where USDC reserves were held was limited to an aggregate amount of $1.3 million (representing five FDIC-insured financial institutions). The liabilities related to Deposits from stablecoin holders on the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets are not covered by FDIC deposit insurance. As of September 30, 2025, approximately 87% of USDC reserves are held in the Circle Reserve Fund. The remaining amount is held in cash and distributed across several banks. We allocate USDC reserves across the different types of reserve assets in accordance with our reserve management standard in a manner designed to ensure available liquidity to meet redemption requests. The portion of USDC reserves that we hold as cash at various banks is informed by our historical experience of the liquidity required to meet redemption requests and the time required to convert other reserve assets into cash. Any excess cash (i.e., amounts not required to satisfy near-term redemption requests based on our historical experience) is invested in the Circle Reserve Fund, in an attempt to mitigate the credit and counterparty risk of holding cash at banks in amounts exceeding the FDIC insurance limit. Conversely, if the cash held at any bank is insufficient to satisfy near-term redemption requests based on our historical experience, we transfer cash from other banks or redeem shares of the Circle Reserve Fund to remedy such shortfall. The table presented below summarizes the composition of the reserves backing USDC in circulation (which, as discussed in Key operating and financial indicators, excludes access denied tokens and tokens allowed but not issued (for which we do not receive fiat funds)), the outstanding balance, and the average yield for the periods indicated. We use USDC in circulation in the table presented below to align with our presentation in Key operating and financial indicators and because reserves backing access denied tokens do not represent a material portion of USDC reserves. The amounts below differ from assets (cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities) segregated for the benefit of stablecoin holders, as these line items on our balance sheet include reserve assets backing access denied tokens and reserve assets backing EURC (which is held only in cash at banks and not material for the periods presented) and excludes the amount of reserve assets backing corporate-held USDC. In addition, the amounts differ due to timing and settlement differences, such as reserve income earned but not yet transferred to corporate cash and timing differences of cash receipts and payments related to the minting and redemption process. 58 (in millions, except percentages) September 30, 2025 Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 September 30, 2024 Three Months Ended September 30, 2024 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 Asset Class Fair Value Average Yield Average Yield Fair Value Average Yield Average Yield Cash $ 9,649 3.54 % 3.49 % $ 4,045 4.19 % 4.11 % Circle Reserve Fund $ 64,165 4.24 % 4.25 % $ 31,489 5.24 % 5.28 % The Circle Reserve Fund is a government money market fund pursuant to Rule 2a-7 under the 1940 Act, holding a portfolio of U.S. Treasury securities with remaining maturities of three months or less, overnight U.S. Treasury repurchase agreements, and cash. As an SEC-registered Rule 2a-7 fund, the securities purchased by the Circle Reserve Fund are subject to the quality, diversification, and other requirements of Rule 2a-7 under the 1940 Act and other rules of the SEC. Under these rules, among other things, a Rule 2a-7 fund (i) must hold securities that are sufficiently liquid to meet reasonably foreseeable shareholder redemptions and any commitments the fund has made to its shareholders, (ii) cannot acquire any security other than cash, direct obligations of the U.S. government, securities that will mature or are subject to a demand feature that is exercisable and payable within one business day, and amounts receivable and due unconditionally within one business day on pending sales of portfolio securities (such assets, collectively, the daily liquid assets) if, immediately after the acquisition, the fund would have invested less than 25% of its total assets in such daily liquid assets, (iii) cannot acquire any security other than cash, direct obligations of the U.S. government, government securities that are issued by a person controlled or supervised by and acting as an instrumentality of the U.S. government that are issued at discount to the principal amount to be repaid at maturity and have a remaining maturity 60 days or less, securities that will mature or are subject to a demand feature that is exercisable and payable within five business days, and amounts receivable and due unconditionally within five business days on pending sales of portfolio securities (such assets, collectively, weekly liquid assets), if, immediately after the acquisition, the fund would have invested less than 50% of its total assets in weekly liquid assets, and (iv) must post prominently on its website and update each business day the percentages of its total assets invested in daily liquid assets and weekly liquid assets. The Circle Reserve Fund is managed by BlackRock. It is only available to Circle, and Circle is the only shareholder of the Circle Reserve Fund. As discussed above, the Circle Reserve Fund is subject to the daily and weekly liquid assets requirements of Rule 2a-7. Subject to compliance with those requirements, according to its Form 10-Q, the Circle Reserve Fund invests at least 99.5% of its total assets in cash, U.S. Treasury bills, notes, and other obligations issued or guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S. Treasury, and repurchase agreements secured by such obligations or cash, with any securities generally maturing in 397 days or less and the portfolio having a dollar-weighted average maturity of 60 days or less and a dollar-weighted average life of 120 days or less. Information regarding the Circle Reserve Fund is available, and is updated daily, on BlackRocks website under the USDXX ticker symbol (CUSIP: 09261A870), including the funds net asset value, assets held within the fund, the funds yield, and the yields of specific assets held within the fund. The composition of assets held within the fund will vary over time, and the assets within the fund could have different remaining maturities (but always three months or less) and provide different yields. Our investment in the Circle Reserve Fund is represented by shares (designated Institutional Shares) of the Circle Reserve Fund. The Circle Reserve Funds investments and business operations are managed by BlackRock Advisors, LLC, as investment manager, subject to oversight of BlackRock Funds board of trustees. As required by the 1940 Act, the Circle Reserve Fund provides us, as its sole shareholder, with consent rights over changes to certain fundamental investment restrictions, such as the Circle Reserve Fund acting in ways that are not permitted under the 1940 Act or inconsistent with the disclosure in the funds prospectus. In addition, as the shareholder of the Circle Reserve Fund, together with all other shareholders of funds overseen by BlackRock Funds board of trustees, we are able to vote in the election of BlackRock Funds board of trustees. The Circle Reserve Fund seeks to maintain a net asset value (NAV) of $1 per share. Our investment in the Circle Reserve Fund is not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. BlackRock is not required to reimburse the fund for losses and is not required to provide financial support for the fund at any time. If the terms of the Circle Reserve Fund are modified to no longer suit our objectives, or if BlackRock manages the Circle Reserve Fund in a manner inconsistent with our reserve management standard, we may redeem our shares of the Circle Reserve Fund; we do not have other recourse (other than under the securities laws if BlackRock manages the Circle Reserve Fund in a manner inconsistent with the funds prospectus). 59 We may generally purchase or redeem shares of the Circle Reserve Fund each day on which both the New York Stock Exchange and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia are open for business. The purchase price and the redemption price per share is the NAV per share, which the Circle Reserve Fund seeks to maintain at $1 per share. As of the date of this Form 10-Q, the board of trustees has chosen not to subject the Circle Reserve Fund to liquidity fees or redemption gates, although the board of trustees may change this policy with advance notice to us. Although there are generally no limitations (except as described below) on our ability to redeem shares of the Circle Reserve Fund, redemptions of a large number of shares within a short period of time may adversely affect the Circle Reserve Funds liquidity and net assets and may force the Circle Reserve Fund to sell portfolio securities to meet such redemption requests when it might not otherwise do so. As is customary for money market funds, the Circle Reserve Fund may (i) suspend the right of redemption if trading is halted or restricted by the NYSE or under other emergency conditions described in the 1940 Act; (ii) postpone the date of payment upon redemption if trading is halted or restricted on the NYSE or under other emergency conditions described in the 1940 Act or if a redemption request is made before the Circle Reserve Fund has collected payment for the purchase of shares; (iii) redeem shares for property other than cash as may be permitted under the 1940 Act; and (iv) redeem shares involuntarily in certain cases, such as when the value of a shareholder account falls below a specified level. Our determination of whether to invest and the amount of investment in the Circle Reserve Fund is governed by our reserve management standard. The Circle Reserve Fund has a $2 billion minimum investment requirement. However, we are not obligated to invest in the Circle Reserve Fund. Sources of liquidity Initial Public Offering (IPO) In June 2025, the Company completed its IPO, in which the Company issued and sold 19.9 million shares of its Class A common stock, including the underwriters over-allotment option which was exercised in full, at a public offering price of $31.00 per share. The IPO resulted in net proceeds to the Company of $583.0 million after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and before deducting offering costs of $12.8 million, which were charged to additional paid-in capital as a reduction of the net proceeds received from the IPO. Follow-on Public Offering In August 2025, the Company completed a follow-on public offering of its Class A common stock, in which the Company issued and sold 3.5 million shares of its Class A common stock, including the underwriters over-allotment option which was exercised in full, at a public offering price of $130.00 per share. This resulted in net proceeds to the Company of $444.8 million after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and before deducting offering costs of $1.8 million, which were charged to additional paid-in capital as a reduction of the net proceeds received from the follow-on public offering. Debt In March 2019, we entered into an agreement with an investment company to issue convertible promissory notes in connection with the acquisition of SeedInvest. We agreed to pay the holder the principal amount together with any interest on the unpaid principal balance for the notes beginning on the date of the agreement. The note had an original principal amount of $24.0 million and was convertible into Series E preferred stock subject to the conversion provisions in the agreement. In September 2024, certain holders of the Company's note converted their principal balance of $8.3 million into 524 thousand shares of Series E preferred stock at a conversion rate of $16.23 per share. Subsequent to the IPO, the remaining note is convertible into Class A common stock at a conversion rate of $16.23. The note matures on March 1, 2026, unless earlier converted, and has an annual interest rate of 2.9% due annually in arrears on the last day of each calendar year. Warrants In April 2023, Circle entered into an agreement with a commercial counterparty to grant warrants to purchase up to 4.5 million common shares of a consolidated subsidiary that will be automatically converted one-for-one into shares of Class A common stock upon exercise. The warrants have an exercise price of $42.14 per share and an exercise period of ten years from the grant date. The vesting of the warrants is subject to certain conditions to be achieved over a five-year period. As of September 30, 2025, 3.4 million of these warrants have expired. None of the common shares associated with these warrants have been exercised or forfeited. 60 In August 2023, Circle entered into an agreement with a digital asset exchange to grant warrants to purchase up to 3.6 million common shares of a consolidated subsidiary that will be automatically converted one-for-one into shares of Class A common stock upon exercise. The warrants have an exercise price of $25.09 per share and an exercise period of five years from the grant date. The warrants are subject to a performance condition. This condition has not been met, and none of the common shares associated with these warrants have been exercised or forfeited or have expired. In December 2024, Circle entered into an agreement with a commercial counterparty to grant warrants to purchase up to approximately 2.9 million shares of Class A common stock. The warrants have an exercise price of $22.71 per share and an exercise period of six years from the grant date. The vesting of the warrants is subject to certain conditions to be achieved over a three-year period. As of September 30, 2025, certain performance conditions of those warrants have been met. None of the common shares associated with these warrants have been exercised, forfeited or expired. Other commitments and contingencies Our commitments for facilities leases under non-cancelable operating leases amounted to $24.9 million as of September 30, 2025. As of the date of this Form 10-Q, we did not have any other material commitments for cash expenditures. We are involved in claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and proceedings arising from the ordinary course of our business. We record a contingent liability when we believe that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred, and that the amount can be reasonably estimated. Refer to Note 22 to our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for a summary of our contingent liabilities. Significant judgment is required to determine both probability and the estimated amount. Such legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to be incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. If we determine there is a reasonable possibility that we may incur a loss and the loss or range of loss can be estimated, we disclose the possible loss in the accompanying notes to the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to the extent material. Cash flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: (in millions) Nine months ended September 30, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 293 $ 238 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (66) $ 112 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 30,315 $ 10,964 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $293.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $238.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, driven primarily by a $621.8 million increase in cash receipts from reserve income attributable to increased average reserve deposits relating to increased average USDC in circulation balances, offset by a $362.3 million increase in payment of distribution and transaction costs. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $66.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, driven primarily by $40.5 million capitalization of software development costs, $11.5 million purchase of long-lived assets, $7.7 million cash consideration related to the Hashnote acquisition, and $7.7 million purchase of strategic investments for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the net cash provided by investing activities of $111.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, driven primarily by $234.6 million of sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities, which was offset by $90.3 million purchase of available-for-sale securities, $27.4 million capitalization of software development costs, and $8.9 million purchase of long-lived assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. 61 Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $30.3 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, primarily reflecting $29.5 billion increase in net changes in deposits held for stablecoin holders increase in net changes in deposits held for stablecoin holders primarily due to the increase in USDC in circulation, and $1.0 billion proceeds to the Company from issuance of common stock in connection with the IPO and the follow-on public offering, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering costs, offset by $213.9 million payment of withholding taxes on settlement of restricted stock units for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared with net cash provided by financing activities of $11.0 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, primarily reflecting $11.0 billion increase in net changes in deposits held for stablecoin holders primarily due to the increase in USDC in circulation for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. In preparing our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, stockholders equity, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We re-evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these matters, actual results may differ from these estimates and could differ based upon other assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates as compared to the critical accounting estimates disclosed in our Prospectus. Refer to Note 2 to the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-Q for updates to disclosures of accounting standards recently adopted or required to be adopted in the future.