ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OR PLAN OF OPERATION CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the risks described in this report, our Registration Statement on Form 10-K and other filings we make from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, they relate only to events as of the date on which the statements are made. We do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim financial statements and notes thereto included in this Report and the audited financials in our Registration Statement on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. OVERVIEW We are a development stage company with limited operations and no revenues from our business activities. Our auditors have issued a going concern opinion. This means that our registered independent auditors believe there is substantial doubt that we can continue as an on-going business for the next twelve months. We do not anticipate that we will generate significant revenues until we have developed our online help desk customer support system to assist service companies in improving their customer relationship management. Accordingly, we must raise cash from sources other than our operations in order to implement our sales and marketing plan. In our management's opinion this is a good time to develop an online help desk customer support system to assist service companies in improving their customer relationship management. However, if we are unable to procure the necessary funding to complete our website development and market our online help desk customer support system, or if we are unable to generate revenues in the future for any reason, or if we are unable to make a reasonable profit in the future, we may have to suspend or cease operations unless we are able to raise additional capital. At the present time, we have not made any arrangements to raise additional cash. PLAN OF OPERATION Our specific goal is to develop an online help desk customer support system to assist service companies in improving their customer relationship management. We expect our system to be used by organizations interested in improving their customer relationship management by automating their customer support and by establishing a centralized help desk. We plan for our software product to be capable of providing a generic solution across a broad range of industries. The company has completed its corporate website and has begun development of its software product. We expect to have this accomplished by end of the next quarter. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS NET INCOME (LOSS) Our net loss for the three and nine month periods ended January 31, 2010 was $2,840 and $8,779, compared to $1,600 and $15,788 for the three and nine moinths ended January 31, 2009. During the period from May 21, 2007 (date of inception), through January 31, 2010, we incurred a net loss of $61,386. This loss consisted primarily of incorporation costs, legal and accounting fees, consulting fees, website hosting costs, and administrative expenses. Since inception, we have sold 2,300,000 shares of common stock. 11 EXPENSES Our expenses for the three and nine month periods ended January 31, 2010 was $2,840 and $8,779 respectively. During the period from May 21, 2007 (date of inception), through January 31, 2010, we incurred expenses of $61,386. These expenses were comprised primarily of general and administrative, and legal and accounting expenses, as well as banking fees. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our balance sheet as of January 31, 2010, reflects assets of $3,785. Cash and cash equivalents from inception to date have been insufficient to provide the working capital necessary to operate to date. We anticipate generating losses and, therefore, may be unable to continue operations in the future. If we require additional capital, we would have to issue debt or equity or enter into a strategic arrangement with a third party. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us. We currently have no agreements, arrangements, or understandings with any person to obtain funds through bank loans, lines of credit, or any other sources. GOING CONCERN CONSIDERATION Our registered independent auditors included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our financial statements as of and for the period ended April 30, 2009, regarding concerns about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our interim financial statements as of and for the period ended January 31, 2010, contain additional note disclosures describing the circumstances that lead to this disclosure by our registered independent auditors. Due to this doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, management is open to new business opportunities which may prove more profitable to our shareholders. Historically, we have been able to raise a limited amount of capital through private placements of our equity stock, but we are uncertain about our continued ability to raise funds privately. Further, we believe that our company may have difficulties raising capital until we locate a prospective business opportunity through which we can pursue our plan of operation. If we are unable to secure adequate capital to continue our acquisition efforts, our business may fail and our stockholders may lose some or all of their investment. Should our original business plan fail, we anticipate that the selection of a business opportunity in which to participate will be complex and without certainty of success. Management believes that there are numerous firms in various industries seeking the perceived benefits of being a publicly registered corporation. Business opportunities may be available in many different industries and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to locate compatible business opportunities. PURCHASE OR SALE OF EQUIPMENT We do not expect to purchase or sell any plant or significant equipment. REVENUES We had no revenues for the period from May 21, 2007 (date of inception) through January 31, 2010. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have no off-balance sheet arrangements. 12 ITEM 3. QUANITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK None.