ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read along with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2025, contained in our fiscal year 2025 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) on May 23, 2025. We maintain a website at investor.cirrus.com, which makes available free of charge ourmostrecent annual report andallother filingswe have madewith theCommission. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q including Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These forward-looking statements are based on expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management as of the filing of this Form 10-Q. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as expect, anticipate, target, project, believe, goals, estimates, intend, and variations of these types of words and similar expressions which are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, 16 strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements and readers should not place undue reliance on such statements. We undertake no obligation, and expressly disclaim any duty, to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. For additional information regarding known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results, please seeItem 1A - Risk Factorsin our 2025 Annual Reporton Form 10-K filed with the Commission onMay 23, 2025,and in "Part II, Item 1A - Risk Factors within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review these risk factors, as well as those identified in other documents filed by us with the Commission. Overview Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus Logic, We, Us, Our, or the Company) is a leader in low-power, high-precision mixed-signal processing solutions that create innovative user experiences for the worlds top mobile and consumer applications. The Company remains committed to our three-pronged strategy for growing our business: first, maintaining our leadership position in smartphone audio; second, increasing HPMS content in smartphones; and third, leveraging our strength in audio and HPMS to expand into additional applications and markets with new and existing components. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2026, we continued to execute on these strategic initiatives. We were delighted with the success of our latest-generation smartphone audio components, including our custom boosted amplifier and first 22-nanometer smart codec. Outside of smartphones, we continued to gain traction in the laptop market. In the June quarter, our next-generation amplifier and codec were designed into several new laptops, we announced a collaboration with Compal to address persistent audio quality challenges, and we continued development on multiple new laptop components. Progress in our general market business, which spans the professional audio, automotive, industrial, and imaging end markets, included ramping production of our latest-generation analog-to-digital converters (ADCs), digital-to-analog converters (DACs), and an ultra-high-performance audio codec. Finally, we also began shipping our recently-introduced timing product to an automotive customer. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an ongoing basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. There have been no significant changes during the three months ended June 28, 2025, to the information provided under the headings Critical Accounting Estimates and "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" included in our fiscal year 2025 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2025. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. Results of Operations Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the last Saturday in March. Fiscal years 2026 and 2025 are 52-week fiscal years. The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the three months of fiscal years 2026and2025, respectively,as apercentageof net sales. Allpercentageamounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands, unaudited: 17 Three Months Ended June 28, June 29, 2025 2024 Net sales 100 % 100 % Gross margin 53 % 51 % Research and development 25 % 28 % Selling, general and administrative 10 % 10 % Income from operations 18 % 13 % Interest income 2 % 2 % Interest expense % % Other income (expense) % % Income before income taxes 20 % 15 % Provision for income taxes 5 % 4 % Net income 15 % 11 % Net Sales Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2026 increased $33.2 million, or 9 percent, to $407.3 million from $374.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2025. Net sales from our audio products increased $21.1 million, primarily driven by sales associated with latest-generation products and higher smartphone unit volumes in the first quarter of fiscal year 2026. Net sales from HPMS products increased $12.2 million for the quarter versus the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, primarily due to higher smartphone unit volumes and sales associated with latest-generation products. International sales, including sales to U.S.-based end customers that manufacture products through contract manufacturers or plants located overseas, were approximately 99 percent of net sales for the first quarters of fiscal years 2026 and 2025. Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Since the components we produce are largely proprietary, we consider our end customer to be the entity specifying the use of our component in their design. These end customers may purchase our products directly from us, through distributors, or third-party manufacturers contracted to produce theirdesigns. For thefirstquarter of fiscal years 2026and 2025, our ten largest end customers represented approximately95 percent and 96 percent, of our net sales, respectively. We had one end customer, Apple Inc., that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented approximately 86 percent and 88 percent of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal years 2026 and 2025, respectively. No other end customer or distributor represented more than 10 percent of net sales for the three months ended June 28, 2025orJune 29, 2024. For more information, please see "Part II, Item 1A - Risk Factors" We depend on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our sales, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from,or pricing on products sold to,any key customer or distributor could significantly reduce our salesand our profitability. Gross Margin Gross margin was 52.6 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2026, up from 50.5 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, largely due to a more favorable product mix. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2026 was $102.9 million, a decrease of $2.5 million, from $105.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2025. Significant drivers included reduced stock-based compensation and product development costs, partially offset by increased employee-related costs in the current quarter. 18 Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2026 was $38.7 million, an increase of $2.0 million, from $36.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, due primarily to increased stock-based compensation and employee-related expenses. The increase was partially offset by the absence in the first quarter of fiscal year 2026 of lease impairment costs incurred during the firstquarter of fiscal year 2025, related to refined sublease assumptions for previously vacated office space. Interest Income The Company reported interest income of $8.8 million and $8.4 million for the three months ended June 28, 2025 and June 29, 2024, respectively. Interest income increased in the current period due toreturns generated from higher combined average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, compared to thepriorperiod. Interest Expense The Company reported interest expense of $0.2 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended June 28, 2025 and June 29, 2024, respectively. Interest expense consists primarily of commitment fees associated with the Company's Revolving Credit Facility (see Note 8 - Revolving Credit Facility of the Notes to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements). Other Income (Expense) For the three months ended June 28, 2025 and June 29, 2024, the Company reported other expense of $0.4 million and $1.6 million in other income, respectively. This activity primarilyrelated to non-investment related income (expense) and remeasurement onforeign currencydenominated monetary assets and liabilities. Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes is based on estimated effective tax rates derived from an estimate of annual consolidated earnings before taxes, adjusted for nondeductible expenses, other permanent items and any applicable credits. The following table presents the provision for income taxes (in thousands) and the effective tax rates: Three Months Ended June 28, June 29, 2025 2024 Income before income taxes $ 80,628 $ 56,603 Provision for income taxes $ 19,931 $ 14,508 Effective tax rate 24.7 % 25.6 % Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2026 was $19.9 million compared to $14.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, resulting in effective tax rates of 24.7 percent and 25.6 percent, respectively. Effective tax rates for all periods presented were unfavorably impacted by a provision in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 that requires research and development ("R&D") expenditures incurred in tax years beginning after December 31, 2021 to be capitalized and amortized ratably over five or fifteen years depending on the location in which the research activities are conducted. In addition, our effective tax rates for all periods presented were unfavorably impacted by U.S. tax rules related to refundable tax credits, including R&D expenditure credits available to us in the United Kingdom, that reduce the amount of foreign tax credits available to offset GILTI. On July 4, 2025, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act ("OBBBA") was signed into law. The OBBBA includes a broad range of tax reform provisions, including the permanent elimination of the requirement to capitalize and amortize U.S. R&D expenditures, modifications to international tax provisions, and the permanent extension of certain expiring provisions initially established by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The OBBBA has multiple effective dates, with certain provisions effective in fiscal year 2026 and others effective in fiscal year 2027. We are assessing the legislation and its effect on our consolidated financial statements, which we expect to begin reflecting in the second quarter of fiscal year 2026. 19 Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for inventory, capital expenditures, share repurchases, and strategic acquisitions. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations, cash generated from the sale and maturity of marketable securities, and available borrowings under our $300 million Revolving Credit Facility. Cash generated from our operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in working capital. Cash generated from operations was$116.1 million for the firstthree monthsof fiscal year 2026versus $87.2 million generated for thecorresponding period of fiscal year 2025. The cashflow fromoperations during thefirst three months of fiscal year 2026 was related to the cash components of our net income and a $27.4 million favorable change in working capital, primarily as a result of decreases in inventory, increases in prepaid wafer usage (related to the Capacity Reservation Agreement) and income taxes payable, partially offset by decreases in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. The cash flow from operations during the corresponding period of fiscal year 2025 was related to the cash components of our net income and a $16.1 million favorable change in working capital, primarily as a result of increases in income taxes payable, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities and prepaid wafer usage (related to the Capacity Reservation Agreement), partially offset by increases in accounts receivables. Net cashused in investing activities was $6.2 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2026 versus $66.6 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2025. The cash used in investing activities in the first three months of fiscal year 2026 was related to net purchases of marketable securities of $3.4 million and capital expenditures and technology investments of $2.8 million. The cash used in investing activities in the corresponding period in fiscal year 2025 was related to net purchases of marketable securities of $56.4 million and capital expenditures and technology investments of $10.1 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $100.7 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2026 and was primarily associated with stock repurchases for the period of $100.0 million. The cash used in financing activities during the first three months of fiscal year 2025 of $32.0 million was primarily associated with stock repurchases during the period of $41.0 million, partially offset by $9.0 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock, primarily related to stock option exercises. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential future acquisitions of companies or technologies, inventory build, and commitments under the Capacity Reservation Agreement with GlobalFoundries (discussed further in Note 12 - Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements). We believe our expected future cash earnings, existing cash, cash equivalents, investment balances, and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements both domestically and internationally, in the short-term (i.e. the next 12 months) and in the long-term, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. Revolving Credit Facility On July 8, 2021, the Company entered into a second amended and restated credit agreement (the Second Amended Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto. The Second Amended Credit Agreement provides for a $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility). The Revolving Credit Facility matures on July 8, 2026 (the Maturity Date). The Revolving Credit Facility is required to be guaranteed by all of Cirrus Logics material domestic subsidiaries ("Subsidiary Guarantors"). The Revolving Credit Facility is secured by substantially all the assets of Cirrus Logic and any Subsidiary Guarantors, except for certain excluded assets. On March 20, 2023, the Company, entered into the First Amendment (the "Amendment") to its Second Amended Credit Agreement, with the lending institutions party thereto and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent. The Amendment updates the benchmark interest rate provisions to replace LIBOR with Term SOFR, for the purposes of calculating interest under the terms of the Second Amended Credit Agreement. As of June 28, 2025, the Company had no amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility and was in compliance with all covenants under the Second Amended Credit Agreement. See Note 8 Revolving Credit Facility of the Notes to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements for additional information including material terms and related covenants. 20