ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read along with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, contained in our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) on May 30, 2018. We maintain a website at investor.cirrus.com , which makes available free of charge our most recent annual report and all other filings we have made with the Commission. 15 This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as expect, anticipate, target, project, believe, goals, estimates, intend, and variations of these types of words and similar expressions which are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. For additional information regarding known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results, please see Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission on May 30, 2018, and in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors within this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review these risk factors, as well as those identified in other documents filed by us with the Commission. Overview Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus Logic, We, Us, Our, or the Company) is a leader in high-performance, low-power integrated circuits (ICs) for audio and voice signal processing applications. Cirrus Logics products span the entire audio signal chain, from capture to playback, providing innovative products for the worlds top smartphones, tablets, digital headsets, wearables and emerging smart home applications. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 as of April 1, 2018. The impact of this new guidance on our accounting policies and operating results is described below as well as in Note 2 - Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements and Note 8 - Revenues. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, there have been no other significant changes in our Critical Accounting Policies included in our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606) . The purpose of this ASU is to converge revenue recognition requirements per U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date after public comment supported a proposal to delay the effective date of this ASU to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. The Company completed the process of reviewing our customers contracts in respect of performance obligation identification and satisfaction, pricing, warranties, and return rights, among other considerations and adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The standard may be adopted by full retrospective method, which applies retrospectively to each prior period presented, or by modified retrospective method with the cumulative effect adjustment recognized in beginning retained earnings as of the date of adoption. The Company adopted this standard using the modified retrospective adoption method in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 with no income statement impact, and therefore no beginning retained earnings impact. See additional information relating to the adoption of this standard in Note 2 and Note 8. 16 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The FASB issued this update to increase transparency and comparability by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key leasing arrangement details . Lessees would recognize operating leases on the balance sheet under this ASU with the future lease payments recognized as a liability, measured at present value, and the right-of-use asset recognized for the lease term. A single lease cost would be recognized over the lease term. For terms less than twelve months, a lessee would be permitted to make an accounting policy election to recognize lease expense for such leases generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The modified retrospective approach is the only allowed adoption method. We currently expect that most of our operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities upon adoption, which will materially increase the total assets and total liabilities that we report relative to such amounts prior to adoption of this ASU. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments . This ASU requires credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities to be presented as an allowance rather than a write-down. Unlike current U.S. GAAP, the credit losses could be reversed with changes in estimates, and recognized in current year earnings. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU with no expected material impact. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment . This ASU eliminates step two of the goodwill impairment test. An impairment charge is to be recognized for the amount by which the current value exceeds the fair value. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods. Early adoption is permitted, for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017, and should be applied prospectively. An entity is required to disclose the nature of and reason for the change in accounting principle upon transition. That disclosure should be provided in the first annual period and in the interim period within the first annual period when the entity initially adopts the amendments in this update. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU with no expected material impact. In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost. This ASU requires an employer to disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net benefit cost. It also provides guidance on income statement presentation for service cost and other components of net benefit cost. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods. The Company adopted this ASU in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. The expected impact of adoption is discussed in Note 9, to be recorded upon the buy-out settlement of the defined benefit pension plan. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting . This ASU applies to any company that changes the terms or conditions of a share-based award, considered a modification. Modification accounting would be applied unless certain conditions were met related to the fair value of the award, the vesting conditions and the classification of the modified award. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. The standard should be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. The Company adopted this ASU in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 with no financial statement impact as no awards were modified in the current period. In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income . This ASU allows for the classification of stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The standard should be applied in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period (or periods) in which the effect of the change in tax rate is recognized. The Company is currently evaluating the potential financial statement impact of this ASU. In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting . This ASU expands the scope of Topic 718 to include all share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees and will apply to all share-based payment transactions in which the grantor acquires goods and services to be used or consumed in its own operations by issuing share-based payment awards. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal 17 year, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU, but does not expect a material impact to the financial statements. Results of Operations Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the last Saturday in March. Fiscal year 2018 included 53 weeks, with the extra week included in the third quarter. Fiscal year 2019 is a 52-week fiscal year. The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the first three months of fiscal years 2019 and 2018 , respectively, as a percentage of net sales. All percentage amounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands, unaudited: Three Months Ended June 30, June 24, 2018 2017 Net sales 100 % 100 % Gross margin 49 % 50 % Research and development 38 % 26 % Selling, general and administrative 13 % 9 % Income (loss) from operations (2 )% 15 % Interest income 0 % 0 % Interest expense 0 % 0 % Other expense 0 % 0 % Income (loss) before income taxes (2 )% 15 % Provision (benefit) for income taxes % 2 % Net income (loss) (2 )% 13 % Net Sales Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 decreased $66.2 million , or 21 percent, to $254.5 million from $320.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 . Net sales from our portable audio products decreased $68.4 million , primarily due to continued weakness in demand for portable audio products targeting the smartphone market and, to a lessor extent, the previously disclosed sale of certain lower average selling price ("ASP") components. Non-portable audio and other product sales increased $2.2 million for the quarter versus the comparable period in the prior fiscal year. Sales to non-U.S. customers, principally located in Asia, including sales to U.S.-based end customers that manufacture products through contract manufacturers or plants located overseas, were approximately 97 percent and 98 percent of net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. No foreign currency hedging contracts were entered into in the first three months of fiscal year 2019 or 2018 . Since the components we produce are largely proprietary, we consider our end customer to be the entity specifying the use of our component in their design. These end customers may purchase our products directly from us, through distributors or third-party manufacturers contracted to produce their designs. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018 , our ten largest end customers represented approximately 89 percent and 91 percent of our net sales, respectively. We had one end customer, Apple Inc., that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented approximately 76 percent of the Companys total net sales for each of the first quarters of fiscal years 2019 and 2018 , respectively. No other end customer or distributor represented more than 10 percent of net sales for the quarter ending June 30, 2018 and June 24, 2017 . For more information, please see Part IIItem 1ARisk Factors We depend on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our sales, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, or pricing on products sold to, any key customer or distributor could significantly reduce our sales and our profitability. 18 Gross Margin Gross margin was 48.9 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 , down from 50.4 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 . The decrease was primarily driven by higher reserve expense and lower production volumes in the current fiscal quarter. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $97.9 million , an increase of $14.3 million , or 17 percent, from $83.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 . The primary drivers for this increase were the absence of the first quarter fiscal year 2018 release of contingent consideration related to a prior acquisition, salary and employee-related expenses, including facilities-related costs, following an 11 percent increase in headcount, higher product development costs and increased amortization of acquisition-related intangibles. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $32.8 million , an increase of $1.9 million , or 6 percent, from $30.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 , primarily due to increased facilities-related expenses and outside professional expenses from first quarter fiscal year 2018 to first quarter fiscal year 2019. Interest Income The Company reported interest income of $1.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 , and $0.9 million for the three months ended June 24, 2017 . Interest income increased in the current quarter due to higher average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances compared to the prior period. Interest Expense The Company reported interest expense of $0.3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and June 24, 2017 . Following the repayment of the Credit Facility described in Note 7 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, interest expense consists primarily of unused commitment fees. Other Income (Expense) For the three months ended June 30, 2018 , the Company reported $0.2 million in other income and less than $0.1 million in other expense for the three months ended June 24, 2017 , primarily related to remeasurement on foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Income Taxes Our provision (benefit) for income taxes is based on estimated effective tax rates derived from an estimate of annual consolidated earnings before taxes, adjusted for nondeductible expenses, other permanent items and any applicable credits. The following table presents the provision (benefit) for income taxes (in thousands) and the effective tax rates: Three Months Ended June 30, June 24, 2018 2017 Income (loss) before income taxes $ (4,500 ) $ 47,875 Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (228 ) $ 4,963 Effective tax rate 5.1 % 10.4 % Our income tax benefit for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $0.2 million compared to $5.0 million in income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 , resulting in effective tax rates of 5.1% and 10.4% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was lower than the federal statutory rate primarily due to the effect of income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions that is taxed below the federal statutory rate and the U.S. federal research and development tax credit. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 was lower than the federal statutory rate primarily due to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions taxed below the 19 federal statutory rate, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and the release of prior year unrecognized tax benefits that were determined to be effectively settled in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0% , restricts the deductibility of certain business expenses, requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax-deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings, among other provisions. We are applying the guidance in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 when accounting for the enactment-date effects of the Tax Act. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for inventory, capital expenditures, share repurchases, and strategic acquisitions. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations, cash generated from the sale and maturity of marketable securities, and available borrowings under our $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility. Cash generated by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in working capital. Cash flow from operations was $4.7 million for the first three months of fiscal year 2019 as compared to $3.8 million used in operations for the corresponding period of fiscal year 2018 . The cash flow from operations during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was related to the cash components of our net income, offset by a $26.5 million unfavorable change in working capital, primarily as a result of increases in accounts receivable and decreases in accounts payable, partially offset by decreases in inventories. The cash flow used in operations during the corresponding period of fiscal year 2018 was related to the cash components of our net income, offset by a $75.0 million unfavorable change in working capital, primarily as a result of increases in accounts receivable and inventories. Net cash used in investing activities was $12.8 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2019 as compared to $77.9 million used in investing activities during the first three months of fiscal year 2018 . The cash used in investing activities in the first three months of fiscal year 2019 is primarily related to capital expenditures and technology investments of $12.6 million and net purchases of marketable securities of $0.3 million . The cash used in investing activities in the corresponding period in fiscal year 2018 was primarily related to net purchases of marketable securities of $46.4 million , and capital expenditures and technology investments of $11.3 million . In addition, the Company purchased certain tangible and intangible assets for $20.2 million as part of a technology acquisition. Net cash used in financing activities was $41.0 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2019 . The cash used during the first three months of fiscal year 2019 was primarily associated with stock repurchases of $40.0 million . The cash used in financing activities was $105.5 million for the first three months of fiscal year 2018 . The use of cash during the first three months of fiscal year 2018 was primarily associated with $60.0 million in payments against the Company's long-term revolver and stock repurchases during the same period of $45.6 million . Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We believe our expected future cash earnings, existing cash, cash equivalents, investment balances, and available borrowings under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements through at least the next 12 months, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. Revolving Credit Facilities On July 12, 2016, Cirrus Logic entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party thereto, for the purpose of refinancing an existing credit facility and providing ongoing working capital. The Credit Agreement provides for a $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility matures on July 12, 2021. The Credit Facility is required to be guaranteed by all of Cirrus Logics material domestic subsidiaries (the Subsidiary Guarantors). The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of Cirrus Logic and any Subsidiary Guarantors, except for certain excluded assets. Borrowings under the Credit Facility may, at our election, bear interest at either (a) a base rate plus the applicable margin (Base Rate Loans) or (b) a LIBOR rate plus the applicable margin (LIBOR Rate Loans). The applicable margin ranges from 0% to 0.50% per annum for Base Rate Loans and 1.25% to 2.00% per annum for LIBOR Rate Loans based on the 20 Leverage Ratio (as defined below). A commitment fee accrues at a rate per annum ranging from 0.20% to 0.30% (based on the Leverage Ratio) on the average daily unused portion of the commitment of the lenders. The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants providing that (a) the ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four fiscal quarters must not be greater than 3.00 to 1.00 (the Leverage Ratio) and (b) the ratio of consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters to consolidated fixed charges (including amounts paid in cash for consolidated interest expenses, capital expenditures, scheduled principal payments of indebtedness, and income taxes) for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters must not be less than 1.25 to 1.00 as of the end of each fiscal quarter. The Credit Agreement also contains negative covenants limiting the Companys or any Subsidiarys ability to, among other things, incur debt, grant liens, make investments, effect certain fundamental changes, make certain asset dispositions, and make certain restricted payments. As of June 30, 2018 , the Company had no amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility and was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement.