ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read along with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 25, 2017, contained in our fiscal year 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) on May 24, 2017. We maintain a website at investor.cirrus.com , which makes available free of charge our most recent annual report and all other filings we have made with the Commission. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as expect, anticipate, target, project, believe, goals, estimates, intend, and variations of these types of words and similar expressions which are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. For additional information regarding known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results, please see Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission on May 24, 2017, and in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors within this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review these risk factors, as well as those identified in other documents filed by us with the Commission. Overview Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus Logic, We, Us, Our, or the Company) is a leader in high-performance, low-power integrated circuits (ICs) for audio and voice signal processing applications. Cirrus Logics products span the entire audio signal chain, from capture to playback, providing innovative products for the worlds top smartphones, tablets, digital headsets, wearables and emerging smart home applications. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. 15 There were no material changes in the first three months of fiscal year 2018 to the information provided under the heading Critical Accounting Policies included in our fiscal year 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 25, 2017. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606) . The purpose of this ASU is to converge revenue recognition requirements per U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date after public comment supported a proposal to delay the effective date of this ASU to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. The Company is currently in the process of reviewing our customers contracts in respect of performance obligation identification and satisfaction, pricing, warranties, and return rights, among other considerations. Though we have not completed the process, the Company currently expects no material modifications to its financial statements upon adoption of this ASU. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The FASB issued this update to increase transparency and comparability by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key leasing arrangement details . Lessees would recognize operating leases on the balance sheet under this ASU with the future lease payments recognized as a liability, measured at present value, and the right-of-use asset recognized for the lease term. A single lease cost would be recognized over the lease term. For terms less than twelve months, a lessee would be permitted to make an accounting policy election to recognize lease expense for such leases generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments . This ASU requires credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities to be presented as an allowance rather than a write-down. Unlike current U.S. GAAP, the credit losses could be reversed with changes in estimates, and recognized in current year earnings. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this ASU on our financial statements. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory . This ASU relates to income tax consequences of non-inventory intercompany asset transfers. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted, as of the beginning of an annual reporting period. The guidance requires companies to apply a modified retrospective approach with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the period of adoption. The Company early adopted this ASU in the current quarter with a $0.7 million impact to beginning retained earnings. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business . The update states that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired (or disposed of) is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business, and should be treated as an asset acquisition instead. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted under specific circumstances, including in an interim period, with prospective application. The Company early adopted this ASU in the current quarter and applied the related guidance in a current quarter asset acquisition. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment . This ASU eliminates step two of the goodwill impairment test. An impairment charge is to be recognized for the amount by which the current value exceeds the fair value. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods. Early adoption is permitted, for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017. An entity is required to disclose the nature of and reason for the change in accounting principle upon transition. That disclosure should be provided in the first annual period and in the interim period within the first annual period when the entity initially adopts the amendments in this update. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU and it will be applied prospectively. 16 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting . This ASU applies to any company that changes the terms or conditions of a share-based award, considered a modification. Modification accounting would be applied unless certain conditions were met related to the fair value of the award, the vesting conditions and the classification of the modified award. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. The standard should be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. The Company is currently evaluating the financial statement impact of this ASU. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the first three months of fiscal years 2018 and 2017, respectively, as a percentage of net sales. All percentage amounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands, unaudited: Three Months Ended June 24, June 25, 2017 2016 Net sales 100 % 100 % Gross margin 50 % 49 % Research and development 26 % 28 % Selling, general and administrative 9 % 12 % Income from operations 15 % 9 % Interest income 0 % 0 % Interest expense 0 % (1 )% Other income (expense) 0 % 0 % Income before income taxes 15 % 8 % Provision for income taxes 2 % 1 % Net income 13 % 7 % Net Sales Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 increased $61.3 million, or 24 percent, to $320.7 million from $259.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017. Net sales from our portable audio products increased $64.6 million, or 30 percent, primarily due to content gains and strong demand for certain digital headset codecs and boosted amplifiers. Non-portable audio and other product sales decreased $3.3 million for the quarter versus the comparable period in the prior fiscal year. Sales outside of the Americas, including sales to U.S.-based customers that manufacture products overseas, either through foreign subsidiaries or third parties principally located in Asia, were approximately 96 percent of net sales during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 and 2017. Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. No foreign currency hedging contracts were entered into in the first three months of fiscal year 2018 or 2017. Since the components we produce are largely proprietary, we consider our end customer to be the entity specifying the use of our component in their design. These end customers may purchase our products directly from us, from an external sales representative or distributor, or through a third-party manufacturer contracted to produce their designs. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2018 and 2017, our ten largest end customers represented approximately 91 percent and 88 percent of our net sales, respectively. We had one end customer, Apple Inc., that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented approximately 76 percent and 68 percent of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal years 2018 and 2017, respectively. Samsung Electronics represented 12 percent of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017. No other end customer or distributor represented more than 10 percent of net sales for the three months ending June 24, 2017 and June 25, 2016. 17 For more information, please see Part IIItem 1ARisk Factors We depend on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our sales, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, or pricing on products sold to, any key customer or distributor could significantly reduce our sales and our profitability. Gross Margin Gross margin was 50.4 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, up from 48.8 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017. The increase was primarily driven by supply chain efficiencies associated with higher production volume. In addition, the first quarter of fiscal 2017 included higher manufacturing spend related to product ramps. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 was $83.6 million, an increase of $9.7 million, or 13 percent, from $73.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017. The primary drivers were increases in salary and employee-related expenses, particularly variable compensation and stock-based compensation, following a 13 percent increase in headcount, amortization of acquisition intangibles, product development costs, and facilities-related costs, partially offset by the adjustment in contingent consideration discussed in Note 4. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 was $30.9 million, an increase of $0.4 million, or 1 percent, from $30.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017. Interest income The Company reported interest income of $0.9 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended June 24, 2017 and June 25, 2016, respectively, due to higher average cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances for the periods presented. Interest expense The Company reported interest expense of $0.3 million and $1.0 million for the three months ended June 24, 2017 and June 25, 2016, respectively. Interest expense decreased in the current quarter due to the repayment of the revolving credit facilities described in Note 7. Other income (expense) For the three months ended June 24, 2017 and June 25, 2016, the Company reported less than $0.1 million in other income and $0.1 million in other expense, respectively, primarily net gains and losses on foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes is based on estimated effective tax rates derived from an estimate of annual consolidated earnings before taxes, adjusted for nondeductible expenses, other permanent items and any applicable credits. The following table presents the provision for income taxes (in thousands) and the effective tax rates: Three Months Ended June 24, June 25, 2017 2016 Income before income taxes $ 47,875 $ 21,669 Provision for income taxes $ 4,963 $ 3,598 Effective tax rate 10.4 % 16.6 % Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 was lower than the federal statutory rate primarily due to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions taxed below the federal statutory rate, primarily due to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions taxed below the federal statutory rate, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and the release of prior year unrecognized tax benefits that were determined to be effectively settled in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. 18 Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 was below the federal statutory rate primarily due to excess tax benefits from stock based compensation and income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions taxed below the federal statutory rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for research and development, capital expenditures, share repurchases, investments in marketable securities, and strategic acquisitions. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations, cash generated from the sale and maturity of marketable securities, and borrowings under our $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility. Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in working capital. Cash flow used in operations was $3.8 million for the first three months of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $12.8 million generated from operations for the corresponding period of fiscal year 2017. The cash flow used in operations during the current period of fiscal year 2018 was related to the cash components of our net income, offset by a $74.4 million unfavorable change in working capital, primarily as a result of increases in accounts receivable and inventories. The cash flow from operations during the corresponding period of fiscal year 2017 was related to the cash components of our net income, partially offset by a $31.3 million unfavorable change to working capital, primarily as a result of increases in accounts receivable and inventories. Net cash used in investing activities was $77.9 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $24.3 million used in investing activities during the first three months of fiscal year 2017. The cash used in investing activities in the current period is primarily related to net purchases of marketable securities of $46.4 million, and capital expenditures and technology investments of $11.3 million. In addition, the Company purchased certain tangible and intangible assets for $20.2 million as part of a technology acquisition. The cash used in investing activities in the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017 was primarily related to net purchases of marketable securities of $13.8 million, and capital expenditures and technology investments of $10.5 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $105.5 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2018. The cash used during the first three months of fiscal year 2018 was primarily associated with $60.0 million in payments against the long-term revolver, discussed in Note 7, and stock repurchases of $45.6 million, discussed in Part II. Item 2. The cash used in financing activities was $13.7 million for the first three months of fiscal year 2017. The use of cash was primarily associated with stock repurchases during the period of $15.4 million, offset by $1.8 million for the issuance of common stock, net of shares withheld for taxes. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. While we expect our offshore cash to represent a greater portion of our total cash over time, we believe our expected future cash earnings, existing cash, cash equivalents, investment balances, and available borrowings under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements both domestically and internationally, through at least the next 12 months, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. Revolving Credit Facilities On August 29, 2014, Cirrus Logic entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party thereto. The Credit Agreement provided for a $250 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility was used for general corporate purposes. On July 12, 2016, Cirrus Logic entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the Amended Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party thereto, for the purpose of refinancing the Credit Facility and providing ongoing working capital. The Amended Credit Agreement provides for a $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Amended Facility). The Amended Facility matures on July 12, 2021. Cirrus Logic must repay the outstanding principal amount of all borrowings, together with all accrued but unpaid interest thereon, on the maturity date. The Amended Facility is required to be guaranteed by all of Cirrus Logics material domestic subsidiaries (the Subsidiary Guarantors). The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of Cirrus Logic and any Subsidiary Guarantors, except for certain excluded assets. 19 Borrowings under the Amended Facility may, at our election, bear interest at either (a) a base rate plus the applicable margin (Base Rate Loans) or (b) a LIBOR rate plus the applicable margin (LIBOR Rate Loans). The applicable margin ranges from 0% to 0.50% per annum for Base Rate Loans and 1.25% to 2.00% per annum for LIBOR Rate Loans based on the Leverage Ratio (as defined below). A commitment fee accrues at a rate per annum ranging from 0.20% to 0.30% (based on the Leverage Ratio) on the average daily unused portion of the commitment of the lenders. The Amended Credit Agreement also contains certain financial covenants providing that (a) the ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four fiscal quarters must not be greater than 3.00 to 1.00 (the Leverage Ratio) and (b) the ratio of consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters to consolidated fixed charges (including amounts paid in cash for consolidated interest expenses, capital expenditures, scheduled principal payments of indebtedness, and income taxes) for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters must not be less than 1.25 to 1.00 as of the end of each fiscal quarter. The Amended Credit Agreement also contains negative covenants limiting the Companys or any Subsidiarys ability to, among other things, incur debt, grant liens, make investments, effect certain fundamental changes, make certain asset dispositions, and make certain restricted payments. As of June 24, 2017, the Company had no amounts outstanding under the Amended Facility and was in compliance with all covenants under the Amended Credit Agreement.