ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our audited historical consolidated financial statements, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risk, uncertainties and other factors. Actual results could differ materially because of the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. Page 22 of 72 Table of Contents Overview We were incorporated in California in 1984, became a public company in 1989 and were reincorporated in the State of Delaware in February 1999. Initially, our focus was on providing ICs for personal computer applications, including personal computer (PC) graphics and storage. In 2001, we refocused our business efforts away from these areas, which we believed had become commodity-like in terms of pricing and offered diminished opportunities for sustained product differentiation and profitability. We reinforced our commitment to operate efficiently and profitably by taking strategic actions beginning in 2005 to improve our top and bottom line growth, including: (1) improving efficiencies by focusing on our product lines including mixed-signal audio and energy products, (2) divesting our digital video product line assets and non-core products to focus on our core strengths, and (3) enhancing our capital structure by completing a $150 million stock repurchase program in fiscal year 2009 to increase long-term stockholder value. We continued this process in fiscal year 2010 by focusing on winning new designs, growing our market share in portable audio products in particular, and by laying the foundation for growth in our energy products. Fiscal Year 2010 In spite of the continuing credit market crisis and other macro-economic challenges affecting the global economy throughout our fiscal year 2010, fiscal year 2010 net sales of $221 million represented a 27 percent increase over fiscal year 2009 net sales of $174.6 million. Further, the fiscal year 2010 net sales performance represented the highest fiscal year net sales amount for the Company since our fiscal year 2003 results. Increased sales from our audio product line, in particular portable audio and surround codec products were key drivers in the overall improvement in top-line revenues in fiscal year 2010 versus the prior fiscal year. While fiscal year 2010 net sales from our energy product line reflected a net 13 percent reduction from fiscal year 2009 results, the energy product line ended its fiscal year on a positive note as increased sales of seismic and power meter products, as well as improved performance from ARM and communication products, resulted in fiscal year 2010 fourth quarter energy product revenue growth of 22 percent over the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 and 50 percent over the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. We saw improvements in a variety of our energy product lines throughout the most recent fiscal year, as our traditional industrial business benefitted from the improving economy. Seismic product sales are still down from peak levels, although it has improved over prior quarters. Overall gross margin of 53.7 percent for fiscal year 2010 reflected a decrease from fiscal year 2009 margin of 55.6 percent due to the recent growth in sales of portable audio products, as well as a mix change to lower margin products in our energy product line driven primarily by a reduction in seismic product sales in fiscal 2010. The Company continued to prudently manage expenses given the continued poor macroeconomic conditions, although we did take advantage of the availability of engineering talent, which resulted in a modest increase to the overall employee headcount during fiscal year 2010. The Company achieved net income of $38.4 million in fiscal year 2010, which included an $11.8 million recognition of deferred tax assets. The $38.4 million of net income in fiscal year 2010 represented an increase of $34.9 million over fiscal year 2009 net income of $3.5 million. Finally, the Companys cash, cash equivalents and investments balances as of March 27, 2010, of $141.6 million reflects an increase of $21.4 million over the ending balances from the prior fiscal year. Fiscal Year 2009 The credit market crisis and other macro-economic challenges affected the global economy, the semiconductor industry, and our own results of operations in fiscal year 2009. The recession reduced both business and consumer spending, which impacted sales of end-user products that incorporate our components. Consequently, for fiscal year 2009 net sales were down approximately 4 percent from the preceding year. However, our strength in revenue from new products and prudent expense management were key drivers in the Company maintaining bottom-line profitability for the year as a whole while establishing a solid base for future growth. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we announced a $20 million stock repurchase program. No share repurchases under this program have occurred as of March 27, 2010. Page 23 of 72 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2008 During fiscal year 2008, we acquired 100 percent of the outstanding stock of Apex Microelectronics Corporation for a purchase price of approximately $42.8 million, consisting primarily of cash and direct acquisition costs. Apex designs and produces integrated circuits, hybrids and modules used in a wide range of industrial and aerospace applications that require high-power precision analog products, such as PWMs and power amplifiers. These precision amplifiers are used for driving motors and piezoelectric devices, programmable power supplies and other devices requiring high power and precision control. In fiscal year 2008, we took additional steps to improve our competitive cost structure. First, we committed to a plan to close Caretta Integrated Circuits (Caretta), a subsidiary based in Shanghai, China. We also made a strategic decision to further streamline our organization structure, which resulted in an additional headcount reduction of 61 employees. Finally, on January 30, 2008, we announced that our Board authorized a share repurchase program of up to $150 million. The Company completed this share repurchase program on April 28, 2008, and purchased a total of 24.5 million shares, or approximately 28 percent of the total number of shares outstanding prior to the program. All shares of our common stock that were repurchased were cancelled as of June 28, 2008. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our operations for each of the past three fiscal years as a percentage of net sales. All percentage amounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands: Fiscal Years Ended March 27, March 28, March 29, 2010 2009 2008 Audio products 70 % 56 % 55 % Energy products 30 % 44 % 45 % Net sales 100 % 100 % 100 % Gross margin 54 % 56 % 57 % Research and development 23 % 26 % 27 % Selling, general and administrative 21 % 26 % 29 % Restructuring costs and other, net % % 6 % Impairment of (proceeds from) non-marketable securities % % 2 % Acquired in process research and development % % 1 % Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements (1 %) 1 % % Patent agreement, net % % % Impairment of intangible assets % 1 % % Income (loss) from operations 11 % 2 % (8 %) Interest income 1 % 2 % 7 % Other income (expense), net % % % Income (loss) before income taxes 12 % 4 % (1 %) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (5 %) 2 % 2 % Net income (loss) 17 % 2 % (3 %) Net Sales We report sales in two product categories: audio products and energy products. Our sales by product line are as follows (in thousands): March 27, March 28, March 29, 2010 2009 2008 Audio products $ 153,661 $ 97,293 $ 100,097 Energy products 67,328 77,349 81,788 Total $ 220,989 $ 174,642 $ 181,885 Page 24 of 72 Table of Contents Net sales for fiscal year 2010 increased 27 percent, to $221.0 million from $174.6 million in fiscal year 2009. The increase in net sales reflects a $56.4 million increase in audio product sales and a $10.0 million decrease in energy product sales. The audio products group experienced growth from the sales of portable and surround codecs products, which were partially offset by decreases in ADC and interface product sales. Within the energy product group, sales decreases were primarily attributable to lower sales of seismic, communications, and ARM processor-based products. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in power meter products sales. Net sales for fiscal year 2009 decreased 4 percent, to $174.6 million from $181.9 million in fiscal year 2008. The drop in net sales reflects a $4.4 million decrease in energy product sales and a $2.8 million decrease in audio product sales. Within the energy product group, sales decreases were primarily attributable to seismic, industrial A/D converters and amplifiers, communications, and ARM processor-based products. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in Apex Precision Power product sales, primarily attributable to a full years contribution in fiscal year 2009, as Apex was acquired by the Company on July 24, 2007. The audio products group experienced substantial growth from sales of portable products, which were partially offset by decreases in DAC and ADC product sales. Export sales, principally to Asia, including sales to U.S.-based customers that manufacture products at plants overseas, were approximately $173.6 million in fiscal year 2010, $119.5 million in fiscal year 2009, and $112.5 million in fiscal year 2008. Export sales to customers located in Asia were 65 percent of net sales in fiscal year 2010, 48 percent of net sales in fiscal year 2009, and 40 percent of net sales in fiscal year 2008. All other export sales represented 14 percent, 20 percent, and 22 percent of net sales in fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. During fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, we did not enter into any foreign currency hedging contracts. Gross Margin Gross margin was 54 percent in fiscal year 2010, down from 56 percent in fiscal year 2009. The decrease in margin from fiscal year 2009 was mainly due to changes in both customer and product mix. While the audio product group experienced a slight increase in margin from fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2010 and the energy group margins were essentially unchanged for this comparable period, the increase in the percentage of sales from the audio group in fiscal year 2010 caused a net reduction in overall margins. The sale of product that had been written down in prior fiscal years contributed approximately $1.3 million, or 0.6 percent, to gross margin compared to a contribution of approximately $1.6 million, or 0.9 percent, in fiscal year 2009. In total, excess and obsolete inventory charges increased by $0.6 million from fiscal year 2009, which decreased gross margin by 0.3 percent. Gross margin was 56 percent in fiscal year 2009, down from 57 percent in fiscal year 2008. The decrease in margin from fiscal year 2008 was mainly due to changes in both customer and product mix. The audio product group experienced a reduction in margin from fiscal year 2008 to fiscal year 2009, which was partially offset by an increase in energy product margin for this same period. The sale of product that had been written down in prior fiscal years contributed approximately $1.6 million, or 0.9 percent, to gross margin compared to contribution of approximately $1.1 million, or 0.6 percent, in fiscal year 2008. In total, excess and obsolete inventory charges decreased by $1.4 million from fiscal year 2008, which increased gross margin by 0.8 percentage points. Research and Development Expenses Fiscal year 2010 research and development expenses increased $7.1 million, or 16 percent, from fiscal year 2009. The variance was primarily due to a $3.5 million increase in salary and benefit costs associated with research and development personnel, whose headcount increased 12 percent in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. Additionally, product development expenses increased $2.8 million, primarily due to higher photo-mask expenses. These increases in research and development expenses were partially Page 25 of 72 Table of Contents offset by non-recurring engineering work performed and billed to third parties, which resulted in a $0.6 million reduction in research and development expenses. Fiscal year 2009 research and development expenses decreased $4.2 million, or 9 percent, from fiscal year 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in product development expenses of $1.9 million, as a result of lower mask expenses and engineering wafer costs. In addition, salary and benefit costs associated with research and development personnel decreased by $1.5 million. Finally, non-recurring engineering worked performed and billed to third parties resulted in an additional $0.7 million reduction in research and development expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $0.6 million in fiscal year 2010, or 1 percent, compared to fiscal year 2009 as an increase in salaries and benefits costs was offset by decreased expenses across several expense categories. A $2.3 million increase in salaries and benefits costs was primarily attributable to increased headcount, and also due to higher sales commissions brought on by increased product sales and fluctuations in commissionable product mix in fiscal year 2010 versus fiscal year 2009. Offsetting this increase was a $0.6 million reduction in net rent expenses, a $0.6 decrease in marketing expenses, and a $0.5 million reduction in professional expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $8.3 million in fiscal year 2009, or 15 percent, compared to fiscal year 2008. The decrease was primarily attributable to a $3.7 million reduction in professional expenses caused by the absence of fees associated with the internal stock option investigation performed in fiscal year 2008 and the reduction in Silvaco lawsuit expenses. See also Part 1 Item 3 Legal Proceedings for additional discussion regarding the Silvaco Data Systems lawsuit. Commission expense decreased $1.2 million due primarily to lower sales and fluctuations in commissionable product mix in fiscal year 2009 versus fiscal year 2008. Salaries and benefits costs were $1.5 million lower in fiscal year 2009 versus fiscal year 2008, primarily due to reduced headcount and other associated employee costs. Finally, occupancy costs in fiscal year 2009 were $0.9 million lower than in fiscal year 2008, primarily due to the termination of a lease in Fremont, California. Restructuring Costs and Other, net During fiscal year 2010, we recorded net restructuring charges of $0.5 million as a separate line item on the statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Restructuring costs and other, net. The restructuring charge was primarily due to revised sublease assumptions for lease space within our corporate headquarters building. See also Note 10 Restructuring Costs and Other of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 for additional discussion on these restructuring activities. During fiscal year 2008, we recorded net restructuring charges of $10.5 million as a separate line item on the statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Restructuring costs and other, net. This net charge was comprised primarily of two separate steps taken to improve our competitive cost structure. First, we committed to a plan to close Caretta, a subsidiary based in Shanghai, China. This action eliminated approximately 30 positions in China during the Companys fourth fiscal quarter, and resulted in the Company recording primarily a non-cash charge for the assets and goodwill related to Caretta of $10.2 million, as well as $0.9 million in cash payments for the affected employees. Also in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we reduced headcount by 61 employees. The restructuring charge associated with this activity amounted to $0.9 million, and were primarily related to employee severance costs. Also in fiscal year 2008, in connection with the expiration of a lease agreement in Fremont, California in December 2007, we recorded a $1.5 million reduction to the fiscal year 2004 and 2006 restructuring liabilities to reduce the accrual to the estimated final settlement amounts. As of March 27, 2010, we have a remaining restructuring accrual for all of our past restructurings of $1.3 million, primarily related to future lease payments net of anticipated subleases that will be paid over the respective lease terms through fiscal year 2013. We have classified $0.6 million of this restructuring accrual as long-term. Page 26 of 72 Table of Contents Impairment of (Proceeds From) Non-Marketable Securities In the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, as part of a convertible note financing round for Magnum Semiconductor, Inc. (Magnum), a company that we had previously had an investment in, we received proceeds of $500 thousand from Magnum as consideration for our ownership interest in Magnum securities, which in fiscal year 2008 had previously been fully impaired. The proceeds were recorded as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Impairment of (proceeds from) non-marketable securities. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, we determined an impairment indicator existed related to our remaining cost method investment in Magnum, as Magnum had received additional capital funding from other sources, and our portion of the investment was diluted. We performed a fair value analysis of our cost method investment in Magnum in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 320 Investments Debt and Equity Securities. Based on the results of the analysis on September 29, 2007, we recognized an impairment of $3.7 million to reduce the carrying value of the Magnum cost method investment to zero. The impairment was recorded as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Impairment of (proceeds from) non-marketable securities. Acquired In-Process Research and Development On July 24, 2007, we acquired 100 percent of the outstanding stock of Apex. The results of Apexs operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date. We acquired Apex for a purchase price of approximately $42.8 million, consisting primarily of cash and direct acquisition costs. Approximately $1.8 million of the purchase price was allocated to in-process research and development and was included in total operating expenses on the consolidated statement of operations under the caption Acquired in process research and development. Of the remaining purchase price, $21.2 million was allocated to acquired intangible assets; $16.9 million was allocated to identified assets including real property and other fixed assets, accounts receivable, and inventory; $6.2 million was allocated to goodwill; and $3.3 million was allocated to net liabilities assumed. In fiscal year 2009, a refund of $0.2 million related to income taxes was received, which reduced goodwill to $6.0 million. Provision (Benefit) For Litigation Expenses and Settlements On March 23, 2009, a lawsuit was filed against the Company alleging patent infringement. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, a settlement agreement was concluded which resulted in Cirrus Logic recognizing a $135 thousand charge related to the suit. In a separate matter, on June 17, 2009, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, the Company received proceeds of a net $2.7 million from its insurance carrier as part of the final settlement of the derivative lawsuits described in Note 8, Legal Matters, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. The proceeds of $2.7 million was recorded as a recovery of costs previously incurred in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 450, Contingencies. The combined net amount of $2.6 million from these two fiscal year 2010 transactions are reflected as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements. During fiscal year 2009, we recognized a $2.2 million charge related to legal fees and expenses associated with the derivative lawsuits. The charge was recorded as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements. Patent Agreement, Net On June 11, 2009, we entered into a Patent Purchase Agreement for the sale of certain Company owned patents and on August 26, 2009, the Company received cash consideration of $1.4 million from the purchaser. The proceeds were recorded as a recovery of costs previously incurred and are reflected as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Patent agreement, net. Page 27 of 72 Table of Contents Impairment of Intangible Assets In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we noted several impairment indicators surrounding our patents acquired from Tripath in June 2007. We performed an impairment analysis under FASB ASC Topic 360 Property, Plant, and Equipment, and noted that the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated from these patents were less than the carrying amount of the assets. We then compared the estimated fair value of these assets to their carrying amount and recognized an impairment loss of $2.1 million. The impairment was recorded as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Impairment of intangible assets. Interest Income Interest income in fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, was $1.3 million, $2.8 million, and $12.1 million respectively. The decrease in interest income in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal years 2009 and 2008 was attributable to two factors: (i) lower average invested capital balances on which interest was earned, which were $130.4 million, $112.6 million, and $240.4 million, respectively, for fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008 and (ii) lower yields on invested capital. The decreases in the average invested capital balances from fiscal year 2008 to fiscal year 2010 are principally attributable to the cash requirements associated with the Companys common stock repurchases occurring in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. On January 28, 2008 our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $150 million. The Company completed the stock repurchase program on April 28, 2008, for a total of $150 million with 24.5 million shares repurchased at an average price of $6.11 per share. Income Taxes We recorded an income tax benefit of $11.7 million in fiscal year 2010 on a pre-tax income of $26.7 million, yielding an effective tax benefit rate of 44 percent. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent, primarily as a result of the realization of deferred tax assets that had been fully reserved and the release of a portion of the valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets that have not yet been utilized. The release of a portion of the valuation allowance generated an $11.8 million tax benefit and was based on an evaluation of the net U.S. deferred tax assets that we expect to utilize in the upcoming year as a result of projected tax basis net income. We recorded an income tax provision of $2.7 million in fiscal year 2009 on a pre-tax income of $6.2 million, yielding an effective tax rate of 44 percent. Our effective tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent primarily due to a $2.7 million charge to tax expense to increase the valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets. We recorded an income tax provision of $3.0 million in fiscal year 2008 on a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million, yielding an effective tax rate of 109 percent. Our effective tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent primarily due to a $4.6 million charge to tax expense to increase the valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets. We evaluate the realizability of the deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis. We have deferred tax assets generated in non-U.S. jurisdictions that we have recognized since it is more likely than not that these assets will be realized. Outlook We came into the year with high expectations driven by our growing successes in portable audio, and we exceeded those expectations on the strength of demand from a variety of product lines outside of portable. We also took advantage of opportunities in the labor market by hiring promising engineering talent. By maintaining control over variable expenses, the growth in revenue and stable margins allowed us to deliver significantly improved earnings for fiscal year 2010. Subject to macro-economic conditions in the coming fiscal year and other business risk factors as described in Item 1A, we are optimistic that this momentum can continue. Page 28 of 72 Table of Contents There are multiple drivers that can enable strong operational and financial performance in fiscal year 2011. On the Audio side of our business, our strategy is to target growing markets, work with tier one customers in those markets, and develop outstanding technology that solves critical problems for them. We strive for strong engineer-to-engineer relationships at these key accounts, which has resulted in a growing base of design wins across many products in this market. Our emphasis is on exceeding the expectations of our existing customers, yet we are focused on winning new customers. New products targeting the general mobile phone market will be publically launched in fiscal year 2011, and we are actively promoting these new parts to key customers. Within home audio, in fiscal year 2010 we announced our first 65nm DSP and this product is currently ramping into production with a key customer in Japan. Weve also seen signs of improvement in other audio markets we serve, such as automotive. Within the energy side of our business, we saw improvements in a variety of our energy product lines throughout the year. Our traditional industrial business benefits from the improving economy. Seismic is still down from its peak levels, but it has improved over prior quarters, which adds incrementally to gross margin. Our current investments in the energy product lines are focused on power meters, and the energy control areas such as power factor correction, lighting, and motor control. We have been in the power meter business for many years, and the recent push for smart grid enhancements has created new opportunities worldwide. Our most recent power meter product to hit production shipped over a million units per quarter during the second half of fiscal year 2010. We are in the product definition phase for the next generation of low cost metrology chips for the global market, and much like portable audio, our focus is on tier one accounts in this market. We are actively promoting our first PFC product, and look to parlay this effort into an enhanced lineup of derivative products. Overall, we believe that we are well positioned to face the challenges presented by the current economic environment, but future sales, costs, margins, profits and profitability are all influenced by numerous factors, all of which are inherently difficult to forecast. Please refer to Item 1A Risk Factors of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 for additional information on these factors. Liquidity and Capital Resources In fiscal year 2010, our operating activities generated $25.1 million in cash. The positive cash flow from operating activities is predominantly due to the cash components of our net income as well as a $10.5 million increase in accounts payable, a $3.5 million increase in accrued salaries and benefits, and a $3.1 million increase in deferred revenue. These positive cash flows were partially offset by cash outflows attributable to a $15.5 million increase in inventory and a $13.1 million increase in accounts receivable. In fiscal year 2009, our operating activities generated $23.1 million in cash. The positive cash flow from operating activities is predominantly due to the cash components of our net income as well as an $11.8 million decrease in accounts receivable, and a $2.7 million decrease in inventory, which were partially offset by a $6.3 million decrease in accounts payable and a $4.4 million decrease in other accrued liabilities. In fiscal year 2008, our operating activities generated $23.0 million in cash. The positive cash flow from operating activities was predominantly due to the cash components of our net loss as well as a $4.9 million increase in accounts payable and a $2.3 million increase in deferred revenue. These increases were partially offset by a $6.1 million decrease in other accrued liabilities, a $3.3 million increase in inventories, and a $1.7 million decrease in accrued salaries and benefits. In fiscal year 2010, we used approximately $42.6 million in cash from investing activities, principally due to the net purchase of $36.8 million in marketable securities. In addition, during fiscal year 2010, we invested $3.7 million in property, equipment, and capitalized software and $2.2 million in technology. In fiscal year 2009, we generated approximately $36.5 million in cash from investing activities, principally due to the net sale of $41.8 million in marketable securities. In addition, during fiscal year 2009 we invested $3.1 million in property, equipment, and capitalized software and $2.1 million in technology. In fiscal year 2008, we generated approximately $2.9 million in cash from investing activities, principally due to the net sale of $53.4 million in Page 29 of 72 Table of Contents marketable securities, partially offset by our purchase of Apex for approximately $42.8 million, net of cash acquired. In addition, during fiscal year 2008 we invested $3.8 million and $3.7 million in technology and property, equipment, and capitalized software, respectively. During fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, we generated $2.0 million, $2.6 million and $5.6 million, respectively, in cash from financing activities related to the receipt of cash from common stock issuances as a result of the exercises of employee stock options and, in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, our employee stock purchase plan. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company utilized approximately $87.2 million in cash to repurchase and retire portions of its outstanding common stock, as previously discussed in Part II Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, the Company utilized approximately $62.8 million in cash to repurchase and retire portions of its outstanding common stock under this same stock repurchase program. As of March 27, 2010, we had restricted investments of $5.9 million, which primarily secures certain obligations under our lease agreement for our principal facility located in Austin, Texas. This facility is 197,000 square feet and houses our headquarters and engineering operations. Although we cannot provide assurances to our stockholders that we will be able to generate cash in the future, we anticipate that our existing capital resources and cash flow generated from future operations will enable us to maintain our current level of operations for at least the next 12 months. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 27, 2010, the Company did not have any material off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. Contractual Obligations In our business activities, we incur certain commitments to make future payments under contracts such as purchase orders, operating leases and other long-term contracts. Maturities under these contracts are set forth in the following table as of March 27, 2010: Payment due by period (In thousands) 5 years Total Facilities leases, net $ 4,450 $ 5,584 $ 38 $ $ 10,072 Equipment leases 13 14 8 35 Wafer purchase commitments 16,360 16,360 Assembly purchase commitments 2,628 2,628 Outside test purchase commitments 3,277 3,277 Manufacturing raw materials 866 866 Other purchase commitments 134 134 Total $ 27,728 $ 5,598 $ 46 $ $ 33,372 On March 24, 2010 the Company entered into an agreement to purchase a parcel of real property in Austin, Texas, for $9.6 million, for the purpose of constructing a new U.S. headquarters. While the agreement currently provides the Company the opportunity to terminate the agreement prior to closing the land purchase transaction, it is more likely than not that the transaction will be completed. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements (ASU 2010-06), which amends the disclosure guidance with respect to fair value measurements. Specifically, Page 30 of 72 Table of Contents the new guidance requires disclosure of amounts transferred in and out of Levels 1 and 2 fair value measurements, a reconciliation presented on a gross basis rather than a net basis of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, greater disaggregation of the assets and liabilities for which fair value measurements are presented and more robust disclosure of the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure Level 2 and 3 fair value measurements. ASU 2010-06 was effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, with the exception of the new guidance around the Level 3 activity reconciliations, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010. The adoption of this guidance with respect to Levels 1 and 2 fair value measurements did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The adoption of this guidance with respect to Level 3 fair value measurements is not anticipated to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In May 2009, the FASB issued guidance now codified as FASB ASC Topic 855, Subsequent Events , which establishes general standards of accounting for, and disclosures of, events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. This pronouncement is effective for interim or fiscal periods ending after June 15, 2009. Accordingly, the Company adopted these provisions of FASB ASC Topic 855 on March 29, 2009. The adoption of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 855 resulted in additional disclosures with respect to subsequent events. See Note 17, Subsequent Event, for this additional disclosure. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance now codified as FASB ASC Topic 820 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures to address challenges in estimating fair value when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability have significantly decreased. The guidance emphasizes that even if there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability and regardless of the valuation technique(s) used, the objective of a fair value measurement remains the same. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction (that is, not a forced liquidation or distressed sale) between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. It is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. Our adoption of this pronouncement during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance now codified as FASB ASC Topic 825, Financial Instruments, which amends previous Topic 825 guidance to require disclosures about fair value of financial instruments in interim as well as annual financial statements. This pronouncement is effective for periods ending after June 15, 2009. Accordingly, the Company adopted these provisions of FASB ASC Topic 825 on March 29, 2009. The adoption of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. However, the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 825 resulted in additional disclosures with respect to the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. See Note 9, Fair Value Measurements, for these additional disclosures. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance now codified as FASB ASC Topic 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities and Topic 325 Investments Other, which is designed to create greater clarity and consistency in accounting for and presenting impairment losses on securities. The pronouncement is effective for periods ending after June 15, 2009. Accordingly, the Company adopted this pronouncement on March 29, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 320 resulted in additional disclosures with respect to the fair value of the Companys investments with unrealized losses that are not deemed other-than-temporarily impaired. See Note 9, Fair Value Measurements, for these additional disclosures. In June 2008, the FASB issued FASB ASC 260-10-45, formerly FSP Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 03-6-1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities. ASC 260-10-45 provides that unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method described in FASB Page 31 of 72 Table of Contents ASC 260, Earnings per Share . ASC 260-10-45 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those years on a retrospective basis. The Company adopted ASC 260-10-45 at the beginning of fiscal 2010. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued guidance now codified as FASB ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. In February 2008, the FASB released additional guidance now codified under FASB ASC Topic 820, which provides for delayed application of certain guidance related to non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually), until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within those years. The Company adopted certain provisions of FASB ASC Topic 820 effective March 30, 2008 (see Note 9, Fair Value Measurements , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). Pursuant to the requirements of FASB ASC Topic 820, the Company adopted the provisions of Topic 820 with respect to our non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities effective March 29, 2009. The implementation of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the consolidated financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We also have policies that we consider to be key accounting policies, such as our policies for revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenues and cost of sales on sales to our distributors, and our stock option granting practices; however, these policies do not meet the definition of critical accounting estimates because they do not generally require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. We believe the following critical accounting policies involve significant judgments and estimates that are used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements: For purposes of determining the variables used in the calculation of stock compensation expense under the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 505, Equity and FASB ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, we perform an analysis of current market data and historical company data to calculate an estimate of implied volatility, the expected term of the option, and the expected forfeiture rate. With the exception of the expected forfeiture rate, which is not an input, we use these estimates as variables in the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Depending upon the number of stock options granted, any fluctuations in these calculations could have a material effect on the results presented in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. In addition, any differences between estimated forfeitures and actual forfeitures could also have a material impact on our financial statements. The Company evaluates accounts receivable in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 310, Receivables. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability or failure of our customers to make required payments. We regularly evaluate our allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the age of the receivable, our ongoing customer relations, as well as any disputes with the customer. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. Additionally, we may maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses on receivables from customers with whom we Page 32 of 72 Table of Contents are involved in litigation. See Note 3 Accounts Receivable, net of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. The Company evaluates inventory in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 330, Inventory. Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost or market, with cost being determined on a first-in, first-out basis. We write down inventories to net realizable value based on forecasted demand, management judgment, and the age of inventory. Actual demand and market conditions may be different from those projected by management, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. See Note 1 Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. We evaluate the recoverability of property, plant, and equipment and intangible assets in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment , and FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. We test for impairment losses on long-lived assets used in operations when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the assets carrying amounts. An impairment loss is recognized in the event the carrying value of these assets exceeds the fair value of the applicable assets. Impairment evaluations involve management estimates of asset useful lives and future cash flows. Actual useful lives and cash flows could be different from those estimated by management, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. See Note 6 Intangibles, net of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Goodwill is recorded at the time of an acquisition and is calculated as the difference between the total consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Accounting for acquisitions requires extensive use of accounting estimates and judgments to allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, including in-process research and development (IPR&D). Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment tests. If the assumptions and estimates used to allocate the purchase price are not correct, or if business conditions change, purchase price adjustments or future asset impairment charges could be required. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) a significant slowdown in the worldwide economy and the semiconductor industry, or (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, the Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if the Company believes indicators of impairment exist. Impairment evaluations involve management estimates of asset useful lives and future cash flows. Significant management judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the evaluations. It is possible, however, that the plans and estimates used may be incorrect. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analysis, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges in a future period. Our available-for-sale investments, non-marketable securities and other investments are subject to a periodic impairment review pursuant to FASB ASC Topic 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities. Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary. This determination requires significant judgment and actual results may be materially different than our estimate. Marketable securities are evaluated for impairment if the decline in fair value below cost basis is significant and/or has lasted for an extended period of time. Non-marketable securities or other investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary. For investments accounted for using the cost method of accounting, we evaluate information (e.g., budgets, business plans, financial statements) in addition to quoted market prices, if any, in determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in value exists. Factors indicative of an other-than-temporary decline include recurring operating losses, credit Page 33 of 72 Table of Contents defaults, and subsequent rounds of financings at an amount below the cost basis of the investment. This list is not all inclusive and we weigh all quantitative and qualitative factors in determining if an other-than-temporary decline in value of an investment has occurred. When a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we recognize an impairment loss in the current periods operating results to the extent of the decline. Actual values could be different from those estimated by management, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. See Note 2 Marketable Securities and Note 4 Non-Marketable Securities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. In accordance with Statement of FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, we provide for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. We have provided a valuation allowance against a substantial portion of our net U.S. deferred tax assets due to uncertainties regarding their realization. We evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis by determining whether or not the anticipated pre-tax income for the upcoming twelve months is expected to be sufficient to utilize the deferred tax assets that we have recognized. If our future income is not sufficient to utilize the deferred tax assets that we have recognized, we increase the valuation allowance to the point at which all of the remaining recognized deferred tax assets will be utilized by the anticipated future pre-tax income for the next twelve months. An increase in the valuation allowance results in a simultaneous increase to income tax expense or, in some cases, a decrease in contributed capital. If our anticipated future pre-tax income is sufficient to conclude that additional deferred tax assets should be recognized, we decrease the valuation allowance. This results in a simultaneous decrease to income tax expense or, possibly, an increase in contributed capital. See Note 14 Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. Restructuring charges for workforce reductions and facilities consolidations reflected in the accompanying financial statements were accrued based upon specific plans established by management, in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations. We use an estimated borrowing rate as the discount rate for all of our restructuring accruals made under FASB ASC Topic 420. Our facilities consolidation accruals are based upon our estimates as to the length of time a facility would be vacant, as well as the amount of sublease income we would receive once we sublet the facility, after considering current and projected market conditions. Changes in these estimates could result in an adjustment to our restructuring accruals in a future quarter, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. See Note 10 Restructuring Costs and Other of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies for various legal matters. See Note 8 Legal Matters of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 . We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether any accruals should be made based on the status of the case, the results of the discovery process and other factors. If we ultimately determine that an accrual should be made for a legal matter, this accrual could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position and the ultimate outcome may be materially different than our estimate.