ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read along with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 2 8 , 201 5 , contained in our fiscal year 201 5 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commiss ion (the Commission) on May 27 , 201 5 . We maintain a web site at investor.cirrus.com , which makes available free of charge our most recent annual report and all other filings we have made with the Commission . This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as expect, anticipate, target, project, believe, goals, estimates, intend, and variations of these types of words and similar expressions which are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. For additional information regarding known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results, please see Item 1A Risk Factors in our 201 5 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission on May 2 7 , 201 5 , and in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors within this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review these risk factors, as well as those identified in other documents filed by us with the Commission. Overview Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus Logic, We, Us, Our, or the Company) develops high-precision, analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) for a broad range of innovative customers . Building on our diverse analog and mixed-signal product portfolio, Cirrus Logic delivers highly optim ized products for a variety of audio , industrial and energy -related applications . Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U. S. GAAP . The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. 16 There were no material changes in the first three months of fiscal year 201 6 to the information provided under the heading Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for t he fiscal year ended March 2 8 , 201 5. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern . The amendments in this ASU provide guidance in GAAP about managements responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entitys ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. The amendments are effective for the annual period ending after December 15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. Early application is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU and expects no material modifications to its financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606) . The purpose of this ASU is to converge revenue recognition requirements per GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The amendments in this ASU are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption not permitted by the FASB; however, in April 2015 the FASB issued for public comment a proposal to delay the effective date of this ASU to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, InterestImputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs . The amendments in this update require that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability. ASU 2015-03 is to be applied retrospectively and represents a change in accounting principle. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Earlier adoption is permitted for financial statements that have not been previously issued. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of this ASU will have on its financial statements . In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-04, Compensation Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Practical Expedient for the Measure ment Date of an Employers Defined Benefit Obligation and Plan Assets. The ASU is part of the FASBs Simplification Initiative to reduce complexity in accounting standards. The FASB decided to permit entities to measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the month-end that is closest to their fiscal year-end. An entity is required to disclose the accounting policy election and the date used to measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations in accordance with the amendments in this u pdate. The amendments in this u pdate are effective for public business entities for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with earlier application permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the likelihood of adoption and the impact this ASU would have on its financial statements. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the three months o f fiscal years 201 6 and 201 5 as a percentage of net sales. All percentage amounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands , unaudite d: 17 Three Months Ended June 27, June 28, 2015 2014 Net sales 100% 100% Gross margin 47% 49% Research and development 23% 26% Selling, general and administrative 10% 13% Patent agreement, net -4% 0% Income from operations 18% 10% Interest income 0% 0% Interest expense 0% 0% Other income 0% 0% Income before income taxes 18% 10% Provision for income taxes 6% 3% Net income 12% 7% Net Sales Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 in crease d $ 130.0 million, or 85 percent, to $ 282.6 million from $ 152.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 5 . Net sales from our portable audio products increased $ 123.3 million, or 110 percent, primarily from increased shipments of our smart codecs and amplifiers . Non-portable audio and other product sales increased $ 6.8 million, or 17 percent, during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 versus the comparable quarter of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to the additional revenue contribution from surround codes, ADC and DAC products . Export sales, principally to Asia, including sales to U.S.-based customers with manufacturing plants overseas, were 9 5 percent and 9 3 percent of net sales during the first quarter of fiscal years 201 6 and 201 5 , respectively . Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. No foreign currency hedging contracts were entered into in the first quarter of fiscal year 2016 or 2015 , with the exception of the foreign currency hedge purchased in conjunction with the acquisition in fiscal year 2015 . Since the components we produce are largely proprietary and generally not available from second sources, we consider our end customer to be the entity specifying the use of our component in their design. These end customers may then purchase our products directly from us, from an external sales representative or distributor, or through a third party manufacturer contracted to produce their designs. For the third quarter of fiscal years 201 6 and 201 5 , our ten largest end customers represented approximately 88 percent and 85 percent of our net sales, respectively. We had one end customer, Apple Inc. that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented approximately 62 percent and 73 percent of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal years 201 6 and 201 5 , respectively . Samsung Electronics represented 18 percent of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 . No other end customer or distributor represented more than 10 percent of net sales for the three months ending June 27, 2015 and June 2 8 , 201 4 . For more information, please see Part II Item 1A We depend on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our sales, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, or pricing on products sold to, any key customer or distributor could significantly reduce our sales or profitability . 18 Gross Margin Gross margin was 46.9 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 , down from 49.4 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 5 , as supply chain improvements were primarily offset by a higher mix of portable audio products in the current quarter . Margin was also slightly negatively impacted 0.2% due to reserves and scrap during the comparable prior period. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 was $ 65.8 million, an increase of $ 26.0 million, or 66 percent, from $ 39.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 5 . The primary drivers were increase s in salary and employee-related expenses as a result of the Acquisition , increased amortization on acquisition-related intangibles, and increased product development expenses, including tape outs and CAD tools . Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 was $ 29.1 million, an increase of $ 9.4 million, or 48 percent, from $ 19.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 5 . The increase s w ere due to higher salary and benefit costs, occupancy expenses and travel costs largely driven by the Acquisition . Patent Agreement, net On May 8, 2015 , we entered into a patent purchase agreement for the sale of certain Company - owned patents relating to our LED lighting products . As a result of this agreement, on June 22, 2015 , the Company received cash consideration of $ 12.5 million from the purchaser. Under the agreement, the Company undert ook to no longer be engaged in LED lighting and received a license under the sold patents for all other fields of use. The proceeds were recorded during fiscal year 201 6 as a recovery of costs previously incurred and are reflected as a separate line item on the C onsolidated Condensed Statements of Income in operating expenses under the caption Patent agreement, net. Interest expense The Company reported interest expense of $ 0.9 million and $ 0.7 million for the three months ended June 27, 201 5 , and June 28, 2014, respectively, as a result of our $250 million revolving credit facility described in Note 8 , as well as the amortization of the commitment fee on the interim credit facility in the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 . Other income For the three months ended June 27, 201 5 and June 28, 2014 , the Company reported $ 0.1 million and $ 0.5 million, respectively, in other income . The first quarter fiscal year 2015 amount primarily relate s to recognized gains on expired hedging contra cts . T he first quarter fiscal year 2016 amount is immaterial. Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes is based on estimated effective tax rates derived from an estimate of annual consolidated earnings before taxes, adjusted for nondeductible expenses, other permanent items and any applicable credits. The following table presents the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rates (in thousands): 19 Three Months Ended June 27, June 28, 2015 2014 Income before income taxes $ 49,498 $ 15,949 Provision for income taxes $ 16,144 $ 5,701 Effective tax rate 32.6% 35.7% Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2016 was below the federal statutory rate primarily due to income in certain foreign jurisdictions taxed below the federal statutory rate . Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 was slightly above the federal statutory rate primarily due to the effect of the permanent differences that are nondeductible for tax . Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for research and development, capital expenditures, share repurchase, investments in marketable securities, and strategic acquisitions. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operatio ns, cash generated from the sale and maturity of marketable securities, and borrowings under our $250 million senior secured revolving credit facility. Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain current assets and current liabilities. Our operational cash flows are affected by the ability of our operations to generate cash, and our management of assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $ 43.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 as compared to $ 12.8 million for the c orresponding period of fiscal year 201 5 . The primary source s of cash flow from operations during the current quarter of fiscal year 201 6 was related to the cash components of our net income, offset by a $ 2 8.7 million decrease in changes to working capital, primarily in inventories . The primary source of cash flow from operations during the corresponding period of fiscal year 201 5 was the cash components of our net income. Net cash provided by investing activities was $ 0.7 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 as compared to $ 223.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 5 . The cash provided by investing activities in the current quarter i s primarily related to n et proceeds from the sale of marketable securities of $ 1 3. 4 million , partially offset by purchases of proper ty, equipment and software of $ 10.6 million and technology investments of $1.8 million . Net cash provided by investing activities f or the corresponding period in fiscal year 201 5 was primarily driven by p roceeds from the sale of marketable securities of $246.9 million in anticipation of financing the A cquisition , offset by an $11.1 million foreign currency hedge purchased in conjunction with the A cquisition , purchases of marketable securities of $9.3 million and the purchase of property, equipment and software of $3.3 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $ 17.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 . The cash used during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 was primarily associated with $20.0 million in principal payments against the long-term revolver , discussed in Note 8 , partially offset by $ 2.7 million for the issuance of common stock, net of shares withheld for taxes for the quarter. The cash provided during the first quarter of fisc al year 201 5 was associated with the excess tax benefit related to employee stock option exercises of $3.1 million and $0.9 million for the issuance of common stock, net of shares withheld for taxes, partially offset by payments for debt issuance costs related to the Wolfson acquisition of $3.0 million . We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and currently intend to continue our policy of retaining any earnings for reinvestment in our business. Although we cannot give assur ance that we will be able to generate cash in the future, we anticipate that our future cash earnings, existing cash, cash equivalents, investments and credit under our Credit Facility are sufficient to meet our capital requirements for at least the next 12 months , although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time . 20 Revolving Credit Facilities In the second quarter of fiscal year 2015, Cirrus Logic entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party thereto. The Credit Agreement provides for a $250 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Fa cility replaced Cirrus Logics I nterim C redit F acility, and may be used for general corporate purposes. The Credit Facility matures on August 29, 2017. The Credit Facility also contains certain financial covenants providing that (a) the ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters must not be greater than 2.00 to 1.00 (the Leverage Ratio) and (b) the sum of cash and Cash Equivalents of Cirrus Logic and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis must not be less than $100 million. At June 27, 201 5 , the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility. A s of June 27, 201 5 , t he Company owes $ 160 .4 million under this facility. See Note 8 for additional details regarding this facility.