ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read along with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2019, contained in our fiscal year 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) on May 24, 2019. We maintain a website at investor.cirrus.com , which makes available free of charge our most recent annual report and all other filings we have made with the Commission. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as expect, anticipate, target, project, believe, goals, estimates, intend, and variations of these types of words and similar expressions which are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation, and expressly disclaim any duty, to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. For additional information regarding known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results, please see Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission on May 24, 2019, and in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors within this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review these risk factors, as well as those identified in other documents filed by us with the Commission. Overview Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus Logic, We, Us, Our, or the Company) is a leader in high-performance, low-power integrated circuits (ICs) for audio, voice and other signal-processing applications. Cirrus Logics products span the entire audio signal chain, from capture to playback, providing innovative products for the worlds top smartphones, tablets, digital headsets, wearables and emerging smart home applications. 18 Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. The Company adopted ASC Topic 842, Leases as of March 31, 2019. The impact of this new guidance on our accounting policies and operating results is described below, in Note 2 - Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements as well as in Note 9 - Leases. During the three months ended June 29, 2019 , there have been no other significant changes in our Critical Accounting Policies included in our fiscal year 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2019. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases , which the Company adopted in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. The new standard provides a number of optional practical expedients in transition. We elected the use-of-hindsight practical expedient and the package of practical expedients which permits us not to reassess under the new standard our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs. The new standard also provides practical expedients for an entitys ongoing accounting. We elected the short-term lease recognition exemption for all leases that qualify. This means, for qualifying leases, which are those with terms of less than twelve months, we will not recognize ROU assets or lease liabilities. We also do not separate lease and non-lease components for all classes of assets. Most of our operating lease commitments were subject to the new standard and recognized as ROU assets and operating lease liabilities upon adoption, which materially increased the total assets and total liabilities that we report relative to such amounts prior to adoption. In applying the use-of-hindsight practical expedient, we re-assessed whether we were reasonably certain to exercise extension options within our lease agreements. This resulted in the lease term being extended on a number of leases. The previously capitalized initial direct costs and accrued lease payments were recalculated assuming these extended lease terms had always applied, resulting in an adjustment of $0.7 million net of tax, to opening retained earnings on transition. On adoption, we recognized additional operating liabilities, with corresponding ROU assets based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments under current leasing contracts for existing operating leases. In addition, existing capitalized initial direct costs and accrued lease payments were reclassified from prepayments and accruals to the ROU asset. There was no income statement or cash flow statement impact on adoption, nor were prior periods adjusted. The effects of the changes made to our balance sheet at adoption were as follows (in thousands): Balance at March 30, 2019 Impact from ASU 2016-02 Adoption Balance at March 31, 2019 Financial statement line item: Prepaid assets $ 30,794 $ (2,833 ) $ 27,961 Right-of-use lease assets 149,746 149,746 Lease liabilities (14,899 ) (14,899 ) Other accrued liabilities (16,339 ) 11,071 (5,268 ) Non-current lease liabilities (143,085 ) (143,085 ) Other long-term liabilities (9,889 ) (965 ) (10,854 ) Accumulated deficit (222,430 ) 965 (221,465 ) In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments . This ASU requires credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities to be presented as an allowance rather than a write-down. Unlike current U.S. GAAP, the credit losses could be reversed with changes in 19 estimates, and recognized in current year earnings. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU, but does not expect a material impact to the financial statements upon adoption. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment . This ASU eliminates step two of the goodwill impairment test. An impairment charge is to be recognized for the amount by which the current value exceeds the fair value. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods. Early adoption is permitted, for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017, and should be applied prospectively. An entity is required to disclose the nature of and reason for the change in accounting principle upon transition. That disclosure should be provided in the first annual period and in the interim period within the first annual period when the entity initially adopts the amendments in this update. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU, but does not expect a material impact to the financial statements upon adoption. In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02, Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income . This ASU allows for the classification of stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The standard should be applied in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period (or periods) in which the effect of the change in tax rate is recognized. The Company adopted this ASU in the current fiscal quarter and elected to reclassify the stranded tax effects of $0.3 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings in the period of adoption. In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-07, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting . This ASU expands the scope of Topic 718 to include all share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees and will apply to all share-based payment transactions in which the grantor acquires goods and services to be used or consumed in its own operations by issuing share-based payment awards. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year, with early adoption permitted. The Company adopted this ASU in the current fiscal quarter, with no material impact to the financial statements. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement . This ASU adjusts current required disclosures related to fair value measurements. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that fiscal year, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU, but does not expect a material impact to the financial statements upon adoption. In August 2018, the Commission adopted the final rule under SEC Release No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification , amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded. In addition, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements. Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement. The analysis should present a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance of each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed. The final rule was published in the Federal Register on October 4, 2018, effective November 5, 2018. The Company adopted the amendments in the current fiscal quarter. See consolidated condensed statements of stockholders' equity. Results of Operations Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the last Saturday in March. Fiscal years 2020 and 2019 are both 52-week fiscal years. The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the first three months of fiscal years 2020 and 2019 , respectively, as a percentage of net sales. All percentage amounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands, unaudited: 20 Three Months Ended June 29, June 30, 2019 2018 Net sales 100 % 100 % Gross margin 51 % 49 % Research and development 37 % 38 % Selling, general and administrative 12 % 13 % Income (loss) from operations 2 % (2 )% Interest income 1 % % Interest expense % % Other income (expense) % % Income (loss) before income taxes 3 % (2 )% Provision (benefit) for income taxes 1 % % Net income (loss) 2 % (2 )% Net Sales Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 decreased $16.2 million , or 6 percent, to $238.3 million from $254.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 . Net sales from our portable products decreased $9.3 million , primarily due to lower sales of portable products shipping in smartphones, along with digital headsets and adapters, partially offset by increased amplifier sales at Android customers. Non-portable and other product sales decreased $6.9 million for the quarter versus the comparable period in the prior fiscal year. Sales to non-U.S. customers, principally located in Asia, including sales to U.S.-based end customers that manufacture products through contract manufacturers or plants located overseas, were approximately 98 percent and 97 percent of net sales for the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019 , respectively. Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Since the components we produce are largely proprietary, we consider our end customer to be the entity specifying the use of our component in their design. These end customers may purchase our products directly from us, through distributors or third-party manufacturers contracted to produce their designs. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019 , our ten largest end customers represented approximately 90 percent and 89 percent of our net sales, respectively. We had one end customer, Apple Inc., that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented approximately 72 percent and 76 percent of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019 , respectively. Samsung represented 10 percent of the Company's total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 . No other end customer or distributor represented more than 10 percent of net sales for the three months ending June 29, 2019 or June 30, 2018 . For more information, please see Part IIItem 1ARisk Factors We depend on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our sales, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, or pricing on products sold to, any key customer or distributor could significantly reduce our sales and our profitability. Gross Margin Gross margin was 51.4 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 , up from 48.9 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 . The increase was primarily driven by lower reserve expense and favorable product mix in the current fiscal quarter versus the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 . Research and Development Expense Research and development expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 was $88.8 million , a decrease of $9.1 million , or 9 percent, from $97.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 . The primary drivers for this decrease were amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, increased R&D incentives and lower product development costs, partially offset by increased salary costs related to the transition of our development activities from Melbourne, Australia to teams in the U.S. and U.K. in an effort to improve efficiency and streamline our hardware, software and algorithm development. 21 Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 was $29.5 million , a decrease of $3.3 million , or 10 percent, from $32.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 , primarily due to decreased salary and employee-related expenses, facilities-related costs and professional fees. Interest Income The Company reported interest income of $2.5 million and $1.7 million , for the three months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 , respectively. Interest income increased in the current period due to higher yields on higher average cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances, compared to the prior period. Interest Expense The Company reported interest expense of $0.3 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 , respectively. Interest expense consists primarily of unused commitment fees. Other Income (Expense) For the three months ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 , the Company reported $0.4 million in other expense and $0.2 million in other income, respectively, primarily related to remeasurement on foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Income Taxes Our provision (benefit) for income taxes is based on estimated effective tax rates derived from an estimate of annual consolidated earnings (loss) before taxes, adjusted for nondeductible expenses, other permanent items and any applicable credits. The following table presents the provision (benefit) for income taxes (in thousands) and the effective tax rates: Three Months Ended June 29, June 30, 2019 2018 Income (loss) before income taxes $ 6,051 $ (4,500 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 1,433 $ (228 ) Effective tax rate 23.7 % 5.1 % Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 was $1.4 million compared to $0.2 million of income tax benefit for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 , resulting in effective tax rates of 23.7% and 5.1% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and 2019 , respectively. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 was higher than the federal statutory rate primarily due to interest accrued on unrecognized tax benefits recorded discretely in the quarter, partially offset by the effect of income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions that is taxed below the federal statutory rate. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was lower than the federal statutory rate primarily due to the effect of income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions that is taxed below the federal statutory rate and the U.S. federal research and development tax credit. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for inventory, capital expenditures, share repurchases, and strategic acquisitions. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations, cash generated from the sale and maturity of marketable securities, and available borrowings under our $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility. Cash generated by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in working capital. Cash flow from operations was $57.0 million for the first three months of fiscal year 2020 as compared to $4.7 million for the corresponding period of fiscal year 2019 . The cash flow from operations during the first three months of fiscal year 22 2020 was related to the cash components of our net income and a $20.7 million favorable change in working capital, primarily as a result of decreases in inventories and accounts receivable. The cash flow from operations during the corresponding period of fiscal year 2019 was related to the cash components of our net income, offset by a $26.5 million unfavorable change in working capital, primarily as a result of increases in accounts receivable and decreases in accounts payable, partially offset by decreases in inventories. Net cash used in investing activities was $34.7 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2020 as compared to $12.8 million used in investing activities during the first three months of fiscal year 2019 . The cash used in investing activities in the first three months of fiscal year 2020 is primarily related to capital expenditures and technology investments of $8.1 million and net purchases of marketable securities of $26.6 million . The cash used in investing activities in the corresponding period in fiscal year 2019 was primarily related to net purchases of marketable securities of $0.3 million , and capital expenditures and technology investments of $12.6 million . Net cash used in financing activities was $40.4 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2020 . The cash used during the first three months of fiscal year 2020 was primarily associated with stock repurchases of $40.0 million . The cash used in financing activities was $41.0 million for the first three months of fiscal year 2019 . The use of cash during the first three months of fiscal year 2019 was primarily associated with stock repurchases during the period of $40.0 million . Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We believe our expected future cash earnings, existing cash, cash equivalents, investment balances, and available borrowings under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements through at least the next 12 months, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. Revolving Credit Facilities On July 12, 2016, Cirrus Logic entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party thereto, for the purpose of refinancing an existing credit facility and providing ongoing working capital. The Credit Agreement provides for a $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility matures on July 12, 2021. The Credit Facility is required to be guaranteed by all of Cirrus Logics material domestic subsidiaries (the Subsidiary Guarantors). The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of Cirrus Logic and any Subsidiary Guarantors, except for certain excluded assets. Borrowings under the Credit Facility may, at our election, bear interest at either (a) a base rate plus the applicable margin (Base Rate Loans) or (b) a LIBOR rate plus the applicable margin (LIBOR Rate Loans). The applicable margin ranges from 0% to 0.50% per annum for Base Rate Loans and 1.25% to 2.00% per annum for LIBOR Rate Loans based on the Leverage Ratio (as defined below). A commitment fee accrues at a rate per annum ranging from 0.20% to 0.30% (based on the Leverage Ratio) on the average daily unused portion of the commitment of the lenders. The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants providing that (a) the ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four fiscal quarters must not be greater than 3.00 to 1.00 (the Leverage Ratio) and (b) the ratio of consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters to consolidated fixed charges (including amounts paid in cash for consolidated interest expenses, capital expenditures, scheduled principal payments of indebtedness, and income taxes) for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters must not be less than 1.25 to 1.00 as of the end of each fiscal quarter. The Credit Agreement also contains negative covenants limiting the Companys or any Subsidiarys ability to, among other things, incur debt, grant liens, make investments, effect certain fundamental changes, make certain asset dispositions, and make certain restricted payments. As of June 29, 2019 , the Company had no amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility and was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement.