ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read along with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009, contained in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission) on June 1, 2009. We maintain a web site at www.cirrus.com, which makes available free of charge our recent annual report and all other filings we have made with the SEC. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as expect, anticipate, target, project, believe, goals, estimates, intend and variations of these types of words and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by our forward-looking statements are those discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors Affecting our Business and Prospects in our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission on June 1, 2009, as well as Item 1A Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended December 26, 2009. Readers should carefully review these risk factors, as well as those identified in the documents filed by us with the Commission. Overview Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus Logic, Cirrus, We, Us, Our, or the Company) develops high-precision, analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) for a broad range of audio and energy markets. Building on our diverse analog mixed-signal patent portfolio, Cirrus Logic delivers highly optimized products for consumer and commercial audio, automotive entertainment and targeted industrial and energy-related applications. We develop ICs, board-level modules and hybrids for high-power amplifier applications branded as the Apex Precision Power line of products and provide complete system reference designs based on our technology that enable our customers to bring products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the consolidated condensed financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We also have policies that we consider to be key accounting policies, such as our policies for revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenues and cost of sales on sales to our distributors, and our stock option granting practices; however, these policies do not meet the definition of critical accounting estimates because they do not generally require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. - 16 - Table of Contents We believe the following critical accounting policies involve significant judgments and estimates that are used in the preparation of the consolidated condensed financial statements: For purposes of determining the variables used in the calculation of stock compensation expense under the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 505, Equity and FASB ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, we perform an analysis of current market data and historical company data to calculate an estimate of implied volatility, the expected term of the option and the expected forfeiture rate. With the exception of the expected forfeiture rate, which is not an input, we use these estimates as variables in the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Depending upon the number of stock options granted, any fluctuations in these calculations could have a material effect on the results presented in our Consolidated Condensed Statement of Operations. In addition, any differences between estimated forfeitures and actual forfeitures could also have a material impact on our financial statements. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability or failure of our customers to make required payments. We regularly evaluate our allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the age of the receivable, our ongoing customer relations, as well as any disputes with a customer. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. Additionally, we may maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses on receivables from customers with whom we are involved in litigation. Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost or market, with cost being determined on a first-in, first-out basis. We write down inventories to net realizable value based on forecasted demand, management judgment and the age of inventory. Actual demand and market conditions may be different from those projected by management, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. We evaluate the recoverability of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment , and FASB ASC Topic 205, Presentation of Financial Statements . We test for impairment losses on long-lived assets used in operations when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the assets carrying amounts. An impairment loss is recognized in the event the carrying value of these assets exceeds the fair value of the applicable assets. Impairment evaluations involve management estimates of asset useful lives and future cash flows. Actual useful lives and cash flows could be different from those estimated by management, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Goodwill is recorded at the time of an acquisition and is calculated as the difference between the total consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Accounting for acquisitions requires extensive use of accounting estimates and judgments to allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, including in-process research and development (IPR&D). Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment tests. If the assumptions and estimates used to allocate the purchase price are not correct, or if business conditions change, purchase price adjustments or future asset impairment charges could be required. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) a significant slowdown in the worldwide economy and the semiconductor industry or (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, the Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if the Company believes indicators of impairment exist. Impairment evaluations involve management estimates of asset useful lives and future cash flows. Significant management judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the evaluations. It is possible, however, that the plans and estimates used may be incorrect. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analysis, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges in a future period. - 17 - Table of Contents Our available-for-sale investments, non-marketable securities and other investments are subject to a periodic impairment review pursuant to FASB ASC Topic 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities. Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary. This determination requires significant judgment and actual results may be materially different than our estimate. Marketable securities are evaluated for impairment if the decline in fair value below cost basis is significant and/or has lasted for an extended period of time. Non-marketable securities or other investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary. For investments accounted for using the cost method of accounting, we evaluate information (e.g., budgets, business plans, financial statements, etc.) in addition to quoted market prices, if any, in determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in value exists. Factors indicative of an other-than-temporary decline include recurring operating losses, credit defaults, and subsequent rounds of financings at an amount below the cost basis of the investment. This list is not all inclusive and we weigh all quantitative and qualitative factors in determining if an other-than-temporary decline in value of an investment has occurred. When a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we recognize an impairment loss in the current periods operating results to the extent of the decline. Actual values could be different from those estimated by management, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, we provide for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. We have provided a valuation allowance against a substantial portion of our net U.S. deferred tax assets due to uncertainties regarding their realization. We evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis by determining whether or not the anticipated pre-tax income for the upcoming twelve months is expected to be sufficient to utilize the deferred tax assets that we have recognized. If our future income is not sufficient to utilize the deferred tax assets that we have recognized, we increase the valuation allowance to the point at which all of the remaining recognized deferred tax assets will be utilized by the anticipated future pre-tax income for the next twelve months. An increase in the valuation allowance results in a simultaneous increase to income tax expense or, in some cases, a decrease in contributed capital. If our anticipated future pre-tax income is sufficient to conclude that additional deferred tax assets should be recognized, we decrease the valuation allowance. This results in a simultaneous decrease to income tax expense or, possibly, an increase in contributed capital. Restructuring charges for workforce reductions and facilities consolidations reflected in the accompanying financial statements were accrued based upon specific plans established by management, in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations. We use an estimated borrowing rate as the discount rate for all of our restructuring accruals made under FASB ASC Topic 420. Our facilities consolidation accruals are based upon our estimates as to the length of time a facility would be vacant, as well as the amount of sublease income we would receive once we sublet the facility, after considering current and projected market conditions. Changes in these estimates could result in an adjustment to our restructuring accruals in a future quarter, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies for various legal matters. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether any accruals should be made based on the status of the case, the results of the discovery process and other factors. If we ultimately determine that an accrual should be made for a legal matter, this accrual could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position and the ultimate outcome may be materially different than our estimate. - 18 - Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal years 2010 and 2009 as a percent of net sales. All percent amounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands, unaudited: Percentage of Net Sales Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended December 26, December 27, December 26, December 27, 2009 2008 2009 2008 Audio products 72 % 59 % 71 % 56 % Energy products 28 % 41 % 29 % 44 % Net sales 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of sales 46 % 45 % 47 % 44 % Gross margin 54 % 55 % 53 % 56 % Research and development 20 % 25 % 24 % 24 % Selling, general and administrative 18 % 25 % 21 % 25 % Restructuring and other costs Proceeds from non-marketable securities (1 %) Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements (2 %) 1 % Patent agreement, net (1 %) Total operating expenses 37 % 50 % 42 % 50 % Income from operations 17 % 5 % 11 % 6 % Interest income, net 1 % 1 % 2 % Other income (expense), net Income before income taxes 17 % 6 % 12 % 8 % Provision for income taxes 1 % Net income 17 % 6 % 11 % 8 % Net Sales Net sales for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 increased $21.3 million, or 49 percent, to $65.2 million from $43.8 million for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. Net sales from our audio products increased $21.2 million, or 82 percent. While revenue increases were generally higher across the entire audio product line, the primary drivers of increased revenue were portable products, surround codec products, and DAC products. Energy products sales remained essentially flat during the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 versus the comparable quarter of the prior fiscal year, as increased power meter sales were offset by decreased sales of our seismic products. Net sales for the first nine months of fiscal year 2010 increased $17.2 million, or 12 percent, to $158.4 million from $141.1 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2009. Net sales from our audio products increased $34.6 million, or 44 percent, due primarily to higher sales of our portable and surround codec products. These sales increases were partially offset by decreases in sales of our audio analog to digital converters and interface products. Energy products net sales decreased $17.4 million, or 28 percent, during the first nine months of fiscal year 2010 from the comparable period of the prior fiscal year substantially due to sales decreases from our seismic, communications, and ARM products. Export sales, principally to Asia, including sales to U.S. based customers with manufacturing plants overseas, were 81 percent and 74 percent of net sales during the third quarter of fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. For the first nine months of fiscal years 2010 and 2009, export sales, principally to Asia, were 80 percent and 68 percent of net sales, respectively. Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. As a result, we have not entered into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. - 19 - Table of Contents Since the components we produce are largely proprietary and generally not available from second sources, we consider our end customer to be the entity specifying the use of our component in their design. These end customers may then purchase our products directly from us, from a distributor, or through a third party manufacturer contracted to produce their end product. We had one end customer that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented approximately 40 percent and more than 25 percent of the Companys total sales for the three month periods ending December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008, respectively. We had one end customer that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented more than 30 percent and approximately 15 percent of the Companys total sales for the nine month periods ending December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008, respectively. We had one distributor that represented 26 percent and 29 percent of our sales for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 and fiscal year 2009, respectively. The same distributor represented 25 percent and 33 percent of our sales for the first nine months of fiscal year 2010 and fiscal year 2009, respectively. Gross Margin Gross margin was 53.5 percent in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, down from 54.9 percent in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. The decrease in gross margin was driven primarily by a change in both customer and product mix, and in particular by the recent revenue growth in our portable products coupled with a mix change to lower margin products in our energy line. Gross margin was 52.7 percent in the first nine months of fiscal year 2010, down from 55.8 percent in the first nine months of fiscal year 2009. The decrease in gross margin was driven primarily by a change in both customer and product mix, and in particular by the recent revenue growth in our portable products coupled with a mix change to lower margin products in our energy line. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 was $12.8 million, an increase of $1.9 million from $10.9 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. This increase was primarily due to an increase in research and development headcount, resulting in higher salaries and associated benefit costs, as well as to higher product development and related expenses. Research and development expense for the first nine months of fiscal year 2010 was $37.7 million, an increase of $4.3 million from $33.4 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2009. This increase was attributable to an increase in research and development headcount, resulting in higher salaries and associated benefit costs, as well as to higher product development and related expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 was $11.4 million, an increase of $0.3 million from $11.1 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. Increases in salary and benefit related expenses were partially offset by decreased occupancy expenses, the latter being primarily attributable to a net reduction of leased office space in the third quarter as compared to the corresponding period for fiscal year 2009. Selling, general and administrative expense in the first nine months of fiscal year 2010 was $33.2 million, a decrease of $1.5 million from $34.7 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2009. Increases in salary and benefit related expenses were partially offset by decreased occupancy expenses, the latter being primarily attributable to a net reduction of leased office space. Additionally, the first nine months of fiscal year 2010 reflects reductions in both outside professional expenses and marketing expenses as compared to the corresponding period for fiscal year 2009. Proceeds From Non-Marketable Securities In the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, as part of a convertible note financing round for Magnum Semiconductor, Inc. (Magnum), we received proceeds of $500 thousand from Magnum as consideration for our ownership interest in Magnum securities which in fiscal year 2008 had previously been fully impaired. The proceeds were recorded as a separate line item on the consolidated condensed statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Proceeds from non-marketable securities. - 20 - Table of Contents Provision (Benefit) for Litigation Expenses and Settlements On March 23, 2009 a lawsuit was filed against the Company alleging patent infringement. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, a settlement agreement was concluded which resulted in Cirrus Logic recognizing a $135 thousand charge related to the suit. Further, on June 17, 2009, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, the Company received proceeds of a net $2.7 million dollars from its insurance carrier as part of the final settlement of the derivative lawsuits. The proceeds were recorded as a recovery of costs previously incurred in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 450, Contingencies , and are reflected as a separate line item on the consolidated condensed statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements. See Note 10, Legal Matters , to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements contained in Part 1, Item 1 of this report for additional information. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, we recognized a $1.8 million charge related to legal fees and expenses associated with the derivative lawsuits. The charge was recorded as a separate line item on the consolidated condensed statement of operations in operating expenses under the heading Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements. Patent Agreement, Net On June 11, 2009, we entered into a Patent Purchase Agreement for the sale of certain Company owned patents and on August 26, 2009 the Company received cash consideration of $1.4 million from the purchaser. The proceeds were recorded as a recovery of costs previously incurred and are reflected as a separate line item on the consolidated condensed statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Patent agreement, net. Interest Income Interest income was $0.3 million and $0.7 million for the third quarter of fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. Interest income was $1.1 million and $2.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease of $1.2 million in the first nine months of fiscal year 2010 is primarily due to decreased rates of return on our investment portfolio. However, the interest-earning portfolio balance of $133 million as of the end of the Companys third quarter of fiscal year 2010 reflects an increase of approximately $16 million over the portfolio balance for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Income Taxes We recorded provision for income taxes of $110 thousand and $116 thousand for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2010, respectively, yielding an effective tax rate of 1.0 percent and 0.6 percent, respectively. Our tax expense for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2010 was based on an estimated effective tax rate which was derived from an estimate of consolidated earnings before taxes for fiscal year 2010. The estimated effective tax rate was impacted primarily by the worldwide mix of consolidated earnings before taxes and an assessment regarding the realizability of our deferred tax assets. Our tax expense for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2010 was less than the Federal statutory rate primarily as a result of the utilization of a portion of our U.S. deferred tax asset which had been subjected to a valuation allowance. In addition, we recorded a tax benefit of $8 thousand and $74 thousand in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2010, respectively, as a result of the provision in U.S. tax law which currently provides that taxpayers may elect to forego bonus depreciation on certain additions of qualified eligible property and, in turn, claim a refundable credit for a portion of its unused AMT and research credits. - 21 - Table of Contents We recorded a provision for income taxes of $66 thousand and $86 thousand for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2009, respectively, yielding an effective tax rate of 2.3 percent and 0.8 percent, respectively. Our tax expense for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2009 were based on an estimated effective tax rate which was derived from an estimate of consolidated earnings before taxes for fiscal year 2009. The estimated effective tax rate was impacted primarily by the worldwide mix of consolidated earnings before taxes and an assessment regarding the realizability of our deferred tax assets. Our tax expense for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2009 was less than the Federal statutory rate primarily as a result of the utilization of a portion of our U.S. deferred tax asset which had been subjected to a valuation allowance. In addition, we recorded a tax benefit of $26 thousand and $99 thousand in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2009, respectively, as a result of the provision in U.S. tax law which currently provides that taxpayers may elect to forego bonus depreciation on certain additions of qualified eligible property and, in turn, claim a refundable credit for a portion of its unused AMT and research credits. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance now codified as FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 105, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles , as the single source of authoritative nongovernmental U.S. GAAP. FASB ASC Topic 105 does not change current U.S. GAAP, but is intended to simplify user access to all authoritative U.S. GAAP by providing all authoritative literature related to a particular topic in one place. All existing accounting standard documents will be superseded and all other accounting literature not included in the FASB Codification will be considered non-authoritative. These provisions of FASB ASC Topic 105 are effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009 and, accordingly, are effective for the Company for the current fiscal reporting period. The adoption of this pronouncement did not have an impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations, but will impact our financial reporting process by eliminating all references to pre-codification standards. On the effective date of this Statement, the Codification superseded all then-existing non-SEC accounting and reporting standards, and all other non-grandfathered non-SEC accounting literature not included in the Codification became non-authoritative. In May 2009, the FASB issued guidance now codified as FASB ASC Topic 855, Subsequent Events , which establishes general standards of accounting for, and disclosures of, events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. This pronouncement is effective for interim or fiscal periods ending after June 15, 2009. Accordingly, the Company adopted these provisions of FASB ASC Topic 855 on March 29, 2009. The adoption of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 855 resulted in additional disclosures with respect to subsequent events. See Note 16, Subsequent Events, for this additional disclosure. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance now codified as FASB ASC Topic 825, Financial Instruments, which amends previous Topic 825 guidance to require disclosures about fair value of financial instruments in interim as well as annual financial statements. This pronouncement is effective for periods ending after June 15, 2009. Accordingly, the Company adopted these provisions of FASB ASC Topic 825 on March 29, 2009. The adoption of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, these provisions of FASB ASC Topic 825 resulted in additional disclosures with respect to the fair value of the Companys financial instruments. See Note 2, Fair Value of Financial Instruments, for these additional disclosures. In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance now codified as FASB ASC Topic 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities and Topic 325 Investments Other, which is designed to create greater clarity and consistency in accounting for and presenting impairment losses on securities. The pronouncement is effective for periods ending after June 15, 2009. Accordingly, the Company adopted this pronouncement on March 29, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 320 resulted in additional disclosures with respect to the fair value of the Companys investments with unrealized losses that are not deemed other-than-temporarily impaired. See Note 2, Fair Value of Financial Instruments, for these additional disclosures. - 22 - Table of Contents In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance codified under FASB ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share . Under FASB ASC Topic 260, unvested share-based payment awards that contain rights to receive non-forfeitable dividends (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities, and should be included in the two-class method of computing earnings per share. The implementation of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In September 2006, the FASB issued guidance now codified as FASB ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The pronouncement was effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. In February 2008, the FASB released additional guidance now codified under FASB ASC Topic 820, which provides for delayed application of certain guidance related to non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually), until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within those years. The Company adopted certain provisions of FASB ASC Topic 820 effective March 30, 2008 (see Note 2, Fair Value of Financial Instruments , to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part 1, Item 1 of this report for additional information). Pursuant to the requirements of FASB ASC Topic 820, the Company adopted the provisions of Topic 820 with respect to our non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities effective March 29, 2009. The implementation of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Liquidity and Capital Resources During the first nine months of fiscal year 2010, we generated approximately $17.3 million in cash from operating activities. The primary increase in cash from operations was related to the cash components of our net income, coupled with a $14.8 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. These increases in cash from operations were partially offset by increases in accounts receivable of $14.3 million and inventory of $10.5 million. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2009, we generated approximately $17.8 million in cash from operating activities. The primary increase in cash from operations was related to the cash components of our net income, coupled with a $7.0 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $1.6 million decrease in other assets, and a $1.5 million increase in deferred revenues. These increases in cash from operations were partially offset by decreases in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities of $12.4 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $24.4 million during the first nine months of fiscal year 2010, primarily as a result of the net purchase of $19.9 million in available-for-sale securities. Additionally, purchases of property, equipment, software, and technology assets amounted to $4.5 million and we used $0.6 million to complete the purchase of the Thaler assets, as discussed in Note 6 Asset Purchase Agreement to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements contained in Part 1, Item 1 of this report. Finally, we received proceeds of $500 thousand as consideration for our ownership interest in non-marketable securities, which in fiscal year 2008 had been fully impaired. Net cash provided by investing activities was $38.3 million during the first nine months of fiscal year 2009, primarily as a result of the net proceeds of $41.4 million from our available-for-sale securities partially offset by purchases of property, equipment, and software of $2.9 million and the payment of $550 thousand related to the purchase of certain Thaler assets. Cash provided by financing activities during the first nine months of fiscal year 2010 represented $0.4 million, and were attributable to the issuance of 97,000 shares of common stock in connection with option exercises. We used $84.7 million in cash from financing activities during the first nine months of fiscal year 2009, due primarily to the use of $87.2 million to complete the share repurchases previously discussed in Note 12 Share Repurchase Program of the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements contained in Part 1, Item 1 of this report. This use of funds was partially offset by the issuance of 579,000 shares of common stock in connection with option exercises and our employee stock purchase plan, which generated approximately $2.6 million in cash. - 23 - Table of Contents As of December 26, 2009, we have restricted cash of $5.8 million, which primarily secures certain obligations under our lease agreement for the headquarters and engineering facility in Austin, Texas. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and currently intend to continue our policy of retaining any earnings for reinvestment in our business. Although we cannot give assurance that we will be able to generate cash in the future, we anticipate that our existing capital resources and cash flow generated from future operations will enable us to maintain our current level of operations for at least the next 12 months.