ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read along with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 27, 2010, contained in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission) on June 1, 2010. We maintain a web site at www.cirrus.com , which makes available free of charge our recent annual report and all other filings we have made with the SEC. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as expect, anticipate, target, project, believe, goals, estimates, intend and variations of these types of words and similar expressions which are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by our forward-looking statements are those discussed in Item 1A Risk Factors Affecting our Business and Prospects in our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission on June 1, 2010, as well as Item 1A Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 26, 2010. Readers should carefully review these risk factors, as well as those identified in the documents filed by us with the Commission. Overview Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus Logic, Cirrus, We, Us, Our, or the Company) develops high-precision, analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) for a broad range of audio and energy markets. Building on our diverse analog mixed-signal patent portfolio, Cirrus Logic delivers highly optimized products for consumer and commercial audio, automotive entertainment and targeted industrial and energy-related applications. We develop ICs, board-level modules and hybrids for high-power amplifier applications branded as the Apex Precision Power (Apex) line of products and provide complete system reference designs based on our technology that enable our customers to bring products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. - 13 - Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the consolidated condensed financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We also have policies that we consider to be key accounting policies, such as our policies for revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenues and cost of sales on sales to our distributors, and our stock option granting practices; however, these policies do not meet the definition of critical accounting estimates because they do not generally require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. There were no material changes in the first three months of fiscal year 2011 to the information provided under the heading Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 27, 2010, which was filed with the Commission on June 1, 2010. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the first quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010 as a percent of net sales. All percent amounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands, unaudited: Percentage of Net Sales Three Months Ended June 26, June 27, 2010 2009 Audio products 66 % 66 % Energy products 34 % 34 % Net sales 100 % 100 % Cost of sales 43 % 48 % Gross margin 57 % 52 % Research and development 18 % 33 % Selling, general and administrative 17 % 27 % Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements 1 % (7 %) Total operating expenses 36 % 53 % Income (loss) from operations 21 % (1 %) Interest income, net 1 % 1 % Other income (expense), net Income before income taxes 22 % 0 % Provision (benefit) for income taxes 1 % Net income 21 % 0 % - 14 - Table of Contents Net Sales Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 increased $44.4 million, or 118 percent, to $81.9 million from $37.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. Net sales from our audio products increased $29.2 million, or 118 percent, as compared to the comparable period from the prior fiscal year. These increases were distributed across the entire audio product line, primarily associated with portable products, surround codec products, digital to audio convertor (DAC) products, and digital signal processing (DSP) products. Energy product sales increased $15.2 million, or 119%, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 versus the comparable quarter of the prior fiscal year. These increases were distributed across the entire energy product line, with the primary drivers of increased sales being attributable to power meter, seismic, and power amplifier products. Export sales, principally to Asia, including sales to U.S. based customers with manufacturing plants overseas, were 80 percent and 77 percent of net sales during the first quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. As a result, we have not entered into foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. Since the components we produce are largely proprietary and generally not available from second sources, we consider our end customer to be the entity specifying the use of our component in their design. These end customers may then purchase our products directly from us, from an external sales representative or distributor, or through a third party manufacturer contracted to produce their products. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, our ten largest end customers represented approximately 54 percent and 45 percent of our sales, respectively. We had one end customer, Apple Inc., that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented approximately 34 percent and 27 percent of the Companys total sales for the first three months of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. One such contract manufacturer, Futaihua Industrial, represented 21 percent of net sales for the three month period ending June 26, 2010. Further, we had one distributor, Avnet Inc., which represented 29 percent and 28 percent of our sales for the first three months of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. No other customer or distributor represented more than 10 percent of net sales for the first three months of fiscal years 2011 and 2010. Gross Margin Gross margin was 57.1 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, up from 52.2 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. The increase in gross margin was driven by changes in customer and product mix, and reflects growth in certain higher margin products within our energy product line coupled with margin improvements in certain products within our audio product line. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was $15.1 million, an increase of $2.6 million, or 20.7 percent, from $12.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. This increase was primarily due to an increase in research and development headcount and associated employee related expenses, as the Company took advantage of opportunities in the labor market to add to its engineering talent. This increase is also related to higher product development expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was $14.0 million, an increase of $3.9 million, or 39.1 percent, from $10.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. The increase was primarily attributable to employee related expenses, sales commissions, and expenses related to the reorganization of our international sales force to better align resources with our customer base. These increases were partially offset by decreased occupancy expenses, primarily attributable to a net reduction of leased office space in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the corresponding period for fiscal year 2010. - 15 - Table of Contents Provision (Benefit) for Litigation Expenses and Settlements During the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, the Company incurred $135 thousand in settlement costs related to a dispute with a former distributor of the Companys products. The transaction is reflected as a separate line item on the consolidated condensed statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements. On June 17, 2009, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, the Company received proceeds of a net $2.7 million from its insurance carrier as part of the final settlement of the derivative lawsuits, as further described in Note 7 Provision (Benefit) for Litigation Expenses and Settlements. The proceeds of $2.7 million were recorded as a recovery of costs previously incurred in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 450, Contingencies. The transaction is reflected as a separate line item on the consolidated condensed statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements. Interest Income Interest income in the first three months of fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was $0.2 million and $0.5 million respectively. The decrease in interest income in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 was attributable to lower yields on invested capital. Average invested capital balances on which interest was earned were $151.6 million and $121.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $155 thousand for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, yielding an effective tax rate of 0.9 percent. Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was based on an estimated effective tax rate which was derived from an estimate of consolidated earnings before taxes for fiscal year 2011. The estimated effective tax rate was impacted primarily by the worldwide mix of consolidated earnings before taxes and an assessment regarding the realizability of our deferred tax assets. Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was less than the Federal statutory rate primarily as a result of the utilization of a portion of our U.S. deferred tax asset and related valuation allowance. We recorded a net income tax benefit of $23 thousand for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, yielding an effective tax benefit rate of 11.6 percent. Our income tax benefit for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 was based on an estimated effective tax rate, which was derived from an estimate of consolidated earnings before taxes for fiscal year 2010. The estimated effective tax rate is impacted primarily by the worldwide mix of consolidated earnings before taxes and an assessment regarding the realizability of our deferred tax assets. Our income tax benefit for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 was less than the Federal statutory rate primarily as a result of the utilization of a portion of our U.S. deferred tax asset and related valuation allowance. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In February 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010-09, Amendments to Certain Recognition and Disclosure Requirements ( Accounting Standards Codification ASC Topic 855) Subsequent Events. The ASU amends the subsequent events disclosure guidance. The amendments include a definition of an SEC filer, require an SEC filer to evaluate subsequent events through the date the financial statements are issued, and remove the requirement for an SEC filer to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated. ASU 2010-09 was effective upon issuance. The adoption of this guidance required additional disclosures but did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations and financial position. In January 2010, FASB issued ASU No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (ASC Topic 820) Improving Disclosures About Fair Value Measurements. The ASU requires new disclosures about transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2 and separate disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements relating to Level 3 measurements. It also clarifies existing fair value disclosures about the level of disaggregation and about inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The new disclosures and clarifications of existing disclosures were effective for the Companys fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements relating to Level 3 measurements, which are not effective until the Companys fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. The adoption of this guidance with respect to Levels 1 and 2 fair value measurements did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The adoption of this guidance with respect to Level 3 fair value measurements is not anticipated to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. - 16 - Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Net cash provided by operating activities was $11.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to $3.0 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. The primary increase in cash from operations was related to the cash components of our net income, coupled with a $6.9 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. These increases in cash from operations were partially offset by increases in accounts receivable of $10.6 million and inventory of $7.0 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $5.9 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2011 as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $7.6 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2010, primarily as a result of $10.4 million received in net proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities. Partially offsetting this source of cash were purchases of property, equipment, software, and technology assets amounting to $4.0 million. Net cash provided by financing activities was $12.3 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2011 as compared to $0.1 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2010, and was primarily attributable to the issuance of 2.0 million shares of common stock in connection with option exercises. As of June 26, 2010, we had restricted cash of $6.4 million, which primarily secures certain obligations under our lease agreement for the headquarters and engineering facility in Austin, Texas. The cash restriction for this lease agreement expires in September 2011. The current restricted cash balance was increased in the first three months of fiscal year 2011 for a required $0.5 million payment under our Purchase and Sale Agreement with Fortis Communities-Austin, L.P. relating to the purchase by the Company of certain real property for a planned new headquarters facility. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Company agreed to purchase the land for $9.62 million, and we expect to complete this transaction during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 . We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and currently intend to continue our policy of retaining any earnings for reinvestment in our business. Although we cannot give assurance that we will be able to generate cash in the future, we anticipate that our existing capital resources and cash flow generated from future operations will enable us to maintain our current level of operations for at least the next 12 months.