ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read along with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2013, contained in our fiscal year 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission) on May 29, 2013. We maintain a web site at investor.cirrus.com, which makes available free of charge our most recent annual report and all other filings we have made with the Commission . This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as expect, anticipate, target, project, believe, goals, estimates, intend, and variations of these types of words and similar expressions which are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. For additional information regarding known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results, please see Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission on May 29, 2013, and in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors within this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review these risk factors, as well as those identified in other documents filed by us with the Commission. Overview Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus Logic, We, Us, Our, or the Company) develops high-precision, analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) for a broad range of audio and energy markets. Building on our diverse analog mixed-signal patent portfolio, Cirrus Logic delivers highly optim ized products for consumer and professional audio, automotive entertainment , and targeted industrial applications including energy control, energy management, light emitting diode (LED) lighting and energy exploration . Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U. S. GAAP . The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. There were no material changes in the first three months of fiscal year 201 4 to the information provided under the heading Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2013 . 13 Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the first three months o f fiscal years 2014 and 2013 as a percentage of net sales. All percentage amounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands , unaudite d: Three Months Ended June 29, June 30, 2013 2012 Net sales 100% 100% Gross margin 51% 54% Research and development 18% 25% Selling, general and administrative 12% 18% Patent infringement settlements, net 1% 0% Restructuring and other, net 0% 0% Income from operations 20% 11% Interest income, net 0% 0% Other income (expense), net 0% 0% Income before income taxes 20% 11% Provision for income taxes 7% 4% Net income 13% 7% Net Sales Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 4 increased $ 56.1 million, or 57 percent to $155.1 million from $ 99.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 3 . Net sales from our audio products increased $ 62.9 million, or 78 percent, primarily due to increased volume in portable sales in the current quarter versus the same time period in the prior fiscal year. Energy product sales de creased $6.8 million, or 37 percent, during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 4 versus the comparable quarter of the prior fiscal year due primarily to the absence of revenue related to the Apex Precision Power products, which were included as part of the August 17, 2012 sale of certain assets. The decrease was coupled with sales reductions of our power meter and DC/Amp products. For further information on the asset sale described above, please refer to Note 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended March 30, 2013. Export sales, principally to Asia, including sales to U.S.-based customers with manufacturing plants overseas, were 93 percent and 8 6 percent of net sales during the first quarter of each of fiscal years 201 4 and 201 3 , respectively. Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. As a result, we have not entered into foreign currency hedging contracts. Since the components we produce are largely proprietary and generally not available from second sources, we consider our end customer to be the entity specifying the use of our component in their design. These end customers may then purchase our products directly from us, from an external sales representative or distributor, or through a third party manufacturer contracted to produce their designs. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2014 and 2013, our ten largest end customers represented approximately 87 percent and 72 percent of our sales, respectively. We had one end customer, Apple Inc. that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented approximately 77 percent and 59 percent of the Companys total sales for the first quarter of fiscal years 2014 and 201 3 , respectively. W e had one distributor , Avnet Inc. that represented approximately 11 percent and 13 percent of our sales for the three month periods ending June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012, respectively. For more information, please see Part II Item 1A We depend on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our sales, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders 14 from, or pricing on products sold to, any key customer or distributor could significantly reduce our sales or profitability . No other end customer or distributor represented more than 10 percent of net sales for the three month periods ending June 29, 2013 and June 30, 2012. Gross Margin Gross margin was 51.2 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014, down from 54.0 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. Much of the year over year decrease in gross margin was attributable to product mix, reflecting decreases in revenue in our higher margin energy products and significant increases in our portable product sales. Additionally, there is a 1 .4 percent gross margin decrease associated to the inventory reserve charge on certain products in the current quarter. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 4 was $ 28.5 million, an increase of $ 3.6 million, or 15 percent, from $ 24.9 million in the first quarter of fisca l year 201 3 . This increase was primarily due to a n 8 percent increase in research and development headcount and associated employee - related expenses as well as increased expenses related to CAD software investments . Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and ad ministrative (SG&A) expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 4 was $ 19.2 million, an increase of $ 1.1 million, or 6 percent, from $ 18.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 3 . The increase was primarily attributable to increased external professional fees and stock compensation expense, despite a decrease in SG&A headcount of 14 percent. Patent Infringement Settlements, net The Company recorded a $0.7 million expense in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 in connection with the settlement of the U.S. Ethernet Innovations, LLC case discussed in Note 9 Legal Matters. This item is presented as a separate line item within operating expenses in the consolidated condensed statements of comprehensive income. Restructuring and Other, net A one-time restructuring charge of $3.5 million was recorded in the third quarter of fiscal year 2013 related to the close of the Companys Tucson, Arizona design center. In the current quarter, the Company reported a credit of $0.4 million related to this activity. This is presented as a separate line item in the consolidated condensed statements of comprehensive income within operating expenses. Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes is based on estimated effective tax rates derived from an estimate of annual consolidated earnings before taxes, adjusted for nondeductible expenses, other permanent items and any applicable credits. Our income tax expense is primarily a non-cash charge due to the utilization of U.S. net operating losses. 15 The following table presents the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rates (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 29, June 30, 2013 2012 Income before income taxes $ 31,646 $ 10,575 Provision for income taxes $ 11,004 $ 3,648 Effective tax rate 34.8% 34.5% Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 was slightly below the federal statutory rate primarily due to the effect of the federal research and development credit which was extended through December 31, 2013 by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, enacted on January 2, 2013. Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 was slightly below the federal statutory rate primarily due to the effect of permanent differences that are deductible for tax purposes. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for research and development, capital expenditures, stock repurchase s , investments in marketable securities, and strategic acquisitions. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations, cash generated from the sale and maturity of marketable securities, and funds from equity issuances. Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain current assets and current liabilities. Our operational cash flows are affected by the ability of our operations to generate cash, and our management of our assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $36.7 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 4 as compared to a use of $ 0.6 million in operating activities for the corresponding period of fiscal year 201 3. The primary source of cash in operations during the curre nt period was primarily related to the cash components of our net income . The primary use of cash in operations during the corresponding period of fiscal year 201 3 was primarily related to a $19.1 million net decrease in working capital. Net cash used in investing activities was $36.7 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 4 as compared to $ 17.9 million provided by investing activities during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 3. The decrease is primarily a result of net purchases of marketable securities of $34.8 million and $1.9 million for the purchase of property, equipment and software. For the corresponding period in fiscal year 201 3, a net $36.4 million was received from the sale and maturity of marketable secur ities. Further, we utilized $18.4 million for the purchase o f property, equipment and software . Net cash provided by financing activities was $ 0.7 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 4 as compared to $ 1.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 3 . The cash provided during the first three months of fiscal year 201 4 and 2013 was due to the net issuance of common stock, net of shares withheld for taxes . The Company co mpleted construction of our new headqua rters facility in Austin, Texas in the third quarter of fiscal year 2013. The Company began expansion of operations in fiscal year 2014 with the acquisition and building of additional facilities in Austin. We anticipate future costs related to the current expansion to range from $15 million to $20 million over the next several years. We anticipate these cash uses to be funded from current cash sources. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and currently intend to continue our policy of retaining any earnings for reinvestment in our business. Although we cannot give assur ance that we will be able to generate cash in the future, we anticipate that our existing capital resources and cash flow generated from future operations will enable us to maintain our current level of operations for at least the next 12 months. 16