ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read along with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 28, 2020, contained in our fiscal year 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) on May 20, 2020. We maintain a website at investor.cirrus.com , which makes available free of charge our most recent annual report and all other filings we have made with the Commission. This quarterly report on Form 10-Q including Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management as of the filing of this Form 10-Q. In 16 some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as expect, anticipate, target, project, believe, goals, estimates, intend, and variations of these types of words and similar expressions which are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements and readers should not place undue reliance on such statements. We undertake no obligation, and expressly disclaim any duty, to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. For additional information regarding known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results, please see Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission on May 20, 2020, and in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors within this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review these risk factors, as well as those identified in other documents filed by us with the Commission. Overview Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus Logic, We, Us, Our, or the Company) is a leader in low-power, high-precision mixed-signal processing solutions that create innovative user experiences for the worlds top mobile and consumer applications. Impact of COVID-19 The Company remains committed to the safety and well-being of our employees, their families and our communities across the globe, while maintaining business continuity and continuing to provide outstanding support to our customers. At this time, the majority of our employees worldwide continue to work from home and remain subject to travel restrictions, due to COVID-19. Despite these challenges, all teams across the organization remain highly productive and we currently anticipate that the Company will be able to continue to maintain a similar level of productivity for the foreseeable future. Our technical marketing and engineering teams executed on key product development efforts and our supply chain team continued to meet production schedules. Although we did not experience a significant reduction in our overall productivity during the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, any increased or additional disruptions to our business operations due to these restrictions would likely impact our ability to continue to maintain current levels of productivity. The COVID-19 pandemic is likely to continue to cause volatility and uncertainty in customer demand, worldwide economies and financial markets for some period of time. To date, any negative impact of COVID-19 on the overall demand for our products, cash flow from operations, need for capital expenditures, and our liquidity position has been limited. The Company has not accessed its revolving credit facility or raised capital in the public or private markets. Given our strong net cash position we believe the Company has sufficient liquidity to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments . This ASU requires credit losses on financial instruments, including available-for-sale debt securities, to be presented as an allowance rather than a write-down. Unlike current U.S. GAAP, the credit losses could be reversed with changes in estimates, and recognized in current year earnings. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. The Company adopted this ASU in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with no material impact to the financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment . This ASU eliminates step two of the goodwill impairment test. An impairment charge is to be recognized for the amount by which the current value exceeds the fair value. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods. Early adoption is permitted, for interim or annual goodwill 17 impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017, and should be applied prospectively. The Company adopted this ASU in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with no material impact to the financial statements. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement . This ASU adjusts current required disclosures related to fair value measurements. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that fiscal year. The Company adopted this ASU in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with no material impact to the financial statements. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), Customers Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract . This ASU provides guidance on the accounting for implementation costs related to a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that fiscal year. The Company adopted this ASU in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with prospective application and no material impact to the financial statements. In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes . The ASU removes certain exceptions to the general principles in Topic 740 and also clarifies and amends existing guidance to improve consistent application. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, including interim periods within that fiscal year, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU, but does not expect a material impact to the financial statements upon adoption. In January 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-01, Investments - Equity Securities (Topic 321) - Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323), and Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) Clarifying the Interactions between Topic 321, Topic 323, and Topic 815 (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force) . This ASU clarifies the interaction of the accounting for equity securities, investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and the accounting for certain forward contracts and purchased options. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, including interim periods within that fiscal year, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU, but does not expect a material impact to the financial statements upon adoption. In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting . The ASU, effective immediately for reporting periods through December 31, 2022, provides accounting relief for contract modifications that replace an interest rate impacted by reference rate reform (e.g., LIBOR) with a new alternative reference rate. The guidance is applicable to investment securities, receivables, debt, leases, hedging relationships and other contractual arrangements. The Company adopted this ASU in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with no material impact to the financial statements. 18 Results of Operations Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the last Saturday in March. Fiscal years 2021 and 2020 are both 52-week fiscal years. The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the first three months of fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively, as a percentage of net sales. All percentage amounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands, unaudited: Three Months Ended June 27, June 29, 2020 2019 Net sales 100 % 100 % Gross margin 53 % 51 % Research and development 33 % 37 % Selling, general and administrative 12 % 12 % Restructuring costs % % Income from operations 8 % 2 % Interest income 1 % 1 % Interest expense % % Other income (expense) % % Income before income taxes 9 % 3 % Provision for income taxes 1 % 1 % Net income 8 % 2 % Net Sales Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 increased $4.3 million, or 2 percent, to $242.6 million from $238.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Net sales from our portable products increased $7.7 million, primarily driven by higher content and volumes in tablets, as people worldwide continue to work from home due to COVID-19. Non-portable and other product sales decreased $3.4 million for the quarter versus the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Sales to non-U.S. customers, principally located in Asia, including sales to U.S.-based end customers that manufacture products through contract manufacturers or plants located overseas, were approximately 98 percent of net sales for each of the first quarters of fiscal years 2021 and 2020. Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Since the components we produce are largely proprietary, we consider our end customer to be the entity specifying the use of our component in their design. These end customers may purchase our products directly from us, through distributors or third-party manufacturers contracted to produce their designs. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2021 and 2020, our ten largest end customers represented approximately 91 percent and 90 percent of our net sales, respectively. We had one end customer, Apple Inc., that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented approximately 83 percent and 72 percent, of the Companys total net sales for the first quarters of fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively. Samsung represented 10 percent of the Company's total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. No other end customer or distributor represented more than 10 percent of net sales for the three months ended June 27, 2020 or June 29, 2019. For more information, please see Part IIItem 1ARisk Factors We depend on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our sales, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, or pricing on products sold to, any key customer or distributor could significantly reduce our sales and our profitability. 19 Gross Margin Gross margin was 52.6 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, up from 51.4 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. The increase was primarily driven by supply chain efficiencies, partially due to cost reductions associated with exiting the MEMS product line. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 was $78.7 million, a decrease of $10.1 million, from $88.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. The primary drivers were decreased amortization costs associated with acquisition-related intangibles, product development costs, employee-related expenses, amortization and depreciation costs of non-acquisition-related assets, and building and facilities-related costs, offset by increases in stock-based compensation and variable compensation costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 was $29.7 million, an increase of $0.2 million, from $29.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020. Restructuring Costs During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, the Company approved the MEMS Restructuring, including discontinuing efforts relating to the MEMS microphone product line. The Company recorded charges of approximately $0.4 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, which included equipment disposal costs and other nonrecurring costs. See Note 10 - Restructuring Costs for additional details. Interest Income The Company reported interest income of $1.8 million and $2.5 million, for the three months ended June 27, 2020 and June 29, 2019, respectively. Interest income decreased in the current period due to lower yields on average cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances, compared to the prior period. Interest Expense The Company reported interest expense of $0.3 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended June 27, 2020 and June 29, 2019, respectively. Interest expense consists primarily of unused commitment fees. Other Income (Expense) For the three months ended June 27, 2020 and June 29, 2019, the Company reported $0.1 million in other income and $0.4 million in other expense, respectively, primarily related to remeasurement on foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes is based on estimated effective tax rates derived from an estimate of annual consolidated earnings before taxes, adjusted for nondeductible expenses, other permanent items and any applicable credits. The following table presents the provision for income taxes (in thousands) and the effective tax rates: Three Months Ended June 27, June 29, 2020 2019 Income before income taxes $ 20,362 $ 6,051 Provision for income taxes $ 2,153 $ 1,433 Effective tax rate 10.6 % 23.7 % 20 Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 was $2.2 million compared to $1.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, resulting in effective tax rates of 10.6% and 23.7% for the first quarter of fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 was lower than the federal statutory rate primarily due to the effect of income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions that is taxed below the federal statutory rate and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 was higher than the federal statutory rate primarily due to interest accrued on unrecognized tax benefits recorded discretely in the quarter, partially offset by the effect of income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions that is taxed below the federal statutory rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for inventory, capital expenditures, share repurchases, and strategic acquisitions. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations, cash generated from the sale and maturity of marketable securities, and available borrowings under our $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility. Cash generated by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in working capital. Cash flow from operations was $0.5 million for the first three months of fiscal year 2021 versus $57.0 million for the corresponding period of fiscal year 2020. The cash flow from operations during the first three months of fiscal year 2021 was related to the cash components of our net income and a $43.9 million unfavorable change in working capital, primarily as a result of increases in inventories, partially offset by decreases in accounts receivable. The cash flow from operations during the corresponding period of fiscal year 2020 was related to the cash components of our net income and a $20.7 million favorable change in working capital, primarily as a result of decreases in inventories and accounts receivable. Net cash used in investing activities was $9.2 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2021 versus $34.7 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2020. The cash used in investing activities in the first three months of fiscal year 2021 is related to net purchases of marketable securities of $7.1 million and capital expenditures and technology investments of $2.1 million. The cash used in investing activities in the corresponding period in fiscal year 2020 was related to capital expenditures and technology investments of $8.1 million and net purchases of marketable securities of $26.6 million. Net cash generated by financing activities was $2.5 million during the first three months of fiscal year 2021. The cash generated during the first three months of fiscal year 2021 was primarily associated with the issuance of common stock under Company stock-based compensation plans. The cash used in financing activities was $40.4 million for the first three months of fiscal year 2020, primarily associated with stock repurchases during the period of $40.0 million. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, the timing and extent of research and development projects, potential acquisitions of companies or technologies and the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. We believe our expected future cash earnings, existing cash, cash equivalents, investment balances, and available borrowings under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements through at least the next 12 months, although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time. Revolving Credit Facilities On July 12, 2016, Cirrus Logic entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party thereto, for the purpose of refinancing an existing credit facility and providing ongoing working capital. The Credit Agreement provides for a $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility matures on July 12, 2021. The Credit Facility is required to be guaranteed by all of Cirrus Logics material domestic subsidiaries (the Subsidiary Guarantors). The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of Cirrus Logic and any Subsidiary Guarantors, except for certain excluded assets. Borrowings under the Credit Facility may, at our election, bear interest at either (a) a base rate plus the applicable margin (Base Rate Loans) or (b) a LIBOR rate plus the applicable margin (LIBOR Rate Loans). The applicable margin ranges from 0% to 0.50% per annum for Base Rate Loans and 1.25% to 2.00% per annum for LIBOR Rate Loans based on the Leverage Ratio (as defined below). A commitment fee accrues at a rate per annum ranging from 0.20% to 0.30% (based on the Leverage Ratio) on the average daily unused portion of the commitment of the lenders. The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants providing that (a) the ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four fiscal quarters must not be greater than 3.00 to 1.00 (the Leverage Ratio) and (b) the ratio of consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters to consolidated fixed charges (including amounts paid in cash for consolidated interest 21 expenses, capital expenditures, scheduled principal payments of indebtedness, and income taxes) for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters must not be less than 1.25 to 1.00 as of the end of each fiscal quarter. The Credit Agreement also contains negative covenants limiting the Companys or any Subsidiarys ability to, among other things, incur debt, grant liens, make investments, effect certain fundamental changes, make certain asset dispositions, and make certain restricted payments. As of June 27, 2020, the Company had no amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility and was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement.