ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read along with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 2 6 , 201 6 , contained in our fiscal year 201 6 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commiss ion (the Commission) on May 2 5 , 201 6 . We maintain a web site at investor.cirrus.com , which makes available free of charge our most recent annual report and all other filings we have made with the Commission . This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as expect, anticipate, target, project, believe, goals, estimates, intend, and variations of these types of words and similar expressions which are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. For additional information regarding known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results, please see Item 1A Risk Factors in our 201 6 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission on May 2 5 , 201 6 , and in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors within this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review these risk factors, as well as those identified in other documents filed by us with the Commission. Overview Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus Logic, We, Us, Our, or the Company) is a leader in high- performance , low-power integrated circuits (ICs) for audio and voice signal processing applications . Cirrus Logic s products span the entire audio signal chain, from capture to playback, providing innovative 17 products for the worlds top smartphones, tablets, digital headsets, wearables and emerging smart home applications . Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U. S. GAAP . The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. There were no material changes in the first three months of fiscal year 201 7 to the information provided under the heading Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 2 6 , 201 6 . Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606) . The purpose of this ASU is to converge revenue recognition requirements per GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. I n August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date after public comment respondents supported a proposal to delay the effective date of this ASU to annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 , including interim reporting periods within that reporting period . The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its financial statements and expects no material modifications . In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern . The amendments in this ASU provide guidance in GAAP about managements responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entitys ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. The amendments are effective for the annual period ending after December 15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. Early application is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating this ASU and expects no material modifications to its financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, InterestImputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs . The amendments in this update require that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability are presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability and that the amortization of debt issuance costs is reported as interest expense. ASU 2015-03 is to be applied retrospectively and represents a change in accounting principle. In August 2015, the FASB issued FASB ASU No. 2015-15, InterestImputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Presentation and Subsequent Measurement of Debt Issuance Costs Associated with Line-of-Credit Arrangements . ASU 2015-15 clarified the presentation and subsequent measurement of debt issuance costs related to line-of-credit arrangements. Debt issuance costs related to a line-of-credit arrangement may be presented in the balance sheet as an asset and subsequently amortized ratably over the term of the arrangement regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings. Both ASU 2015-03 and ASU 2015-15 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Earlier adoption is permitted for financial statements that have not been previously issued. The Company adopt ed these ASU s in the current fiscal quarter . In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-04, Compensation Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Practical Expedient for the Measurement Date of an Employers Defined Benefit Obligation and Plan 18 Assets. The ASU is part of the FASBs Simplification Initiative to reduce complexity in accounting standards. The FASB decided to permit entities to measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the month-end that is closest to their fiscal year-end. An entity is required to disclose the accounting policy election and the date used to measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations in accordance with the amendments in this u pdate. The amendments in this u pdate are effective for public business entities for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with earlier application permitted. The Company adopted this ASU in the current fiscal quarter, with no modifications to its financial statements. The Companys plan assets and obligations are measured as of the fiscal year-end. In July 2015, ASU No. 2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330): Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory was issued. This ASU requires companies to subsequently measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value versus the previous lower of cost or market. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years, to be applied prospectively. Early application is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating this ASU and expects no material modifications to its financial statements as a result. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The FASB issued this update to increase transparency and comparability by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key leasing arrangement details . Lessees would recognize operating leases on the balance sheet under this ASU with the lease payment recognized as a liability, measured at present value, and the right-of-use asset recognized for the lease term. A single lease cost would be recognized over the lease term. For terms less than twelve months, a lessee would be permitted to make an accounting policy election to recognize lease expense for such leases generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . This ASU requires all excess tax benefits and deficiencies to be recognized as income tax expense / benefit in the income statement and presented as an operating activity in the statement of cash flows . F orfeitures can be calculated based on either the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest , as required by current guidance or when forfeitures actually occur . This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted, but all of the described amendments must be adopted in the same period and any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year if adopted in an interim period. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the first three months o f fiscal years 201 7 and 201 6 as a percentage of net sales. All percentage amounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands , unaudite d: 19 Three Months Ended June 25, June 27, 2016 2015 Net sales 100% 100% Gross margin 49% 47% Research and development 28% 23% Selling, general and administrative 12% 10% Patent agreement and other 0% -4% Income from operations 9% 18% Interest income 0% 0% Interest expense -1% 0% Other income 0% 0% Income before income taxes 8% 18% Provision for income taxes 2% 6% Net income 6% 12% Net Sales Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 7 de crease d $ 23.2 million , or 8 percent, to $ 259.4 million from $ 282.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 . Net sales from our port able audio products de creased $ 19.8 million, or 8 percent , primarily from de creased shipments due to a known shift in market share at a large Android customer as they reverted to a dual sourcing strategy on core chipsets. Non-portable audio and other product sales de creased $ 3.4 million, or 7 percent, during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 7 versus the comparable quarter of the prior fiscal year, primarily due to decreased DAC sales . S ales outside of the U.S. , principally located in Asia, including sales to U.S.-based customers with manufacturing plants overseas , were 9 6 percent and 9 5 percent of net sales during the first quarter of fiscal years 201 7 and 201 6 , respectively . Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. No foreign currency hedging contracts were entered into in the first three months of fiscal year 201 7 or 201 6. Since the components we produce are largely proprietary, we consider our end customer to be the entity specifying the use of our component in their design. These end customers may then purchase our products directly from us, from an external sales representative or distributor, or through a third party manufacturer contracted to produce their designs. For each of the first quarter s of fiscal years 201 7 and 201 6 , our ten largest end customers represented approximately 8 8 percent of our net sales. We had one end customer, Apple Inc. that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented approximately 68 percent and 62 percent of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal years 201 7 and 201 6 , respectively . Samsung Electronics represented 12 percent and 1 8 percent of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal years 2017 and 2016 , respectively . No other end customer or distributor represented more than 10 percent of net sales for the three months ending June 25 , 2016 and June 2 7 , 201 5 . For more information, please see Part II Item 1A Risk Factors We depend on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our sales, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, or pricing on products sold to, any key customer or distributor could significantly reduce our sales and our profitability . Gross Margin Gross margin was 4 8 . 8 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 7 , up from 4 6 . 9 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 , primarily due to a favorable shift in product mix , partially offset by increases in manufacturing spend to support new product lines . 20 Research and Development Expense Research and development expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 7 was $ 73.9 million, an increase of $ 8.1 million, or 12 percent, from $ 65.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 . The primary drivers were increase s in salary and employee-related expenses following a 23 percent increase in headcount , higher depreciation and amortization costs and facilities-related cost s , partially offset by a tax credit recognized during the current fiscal period . Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 7 was $ 30.5 million, an increase of $ 1.4 million, or 5 percent, from $ 29.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 6 . The increase s were due primarily to increased depreciation and amortization costs and increased maintenance and supplies cost s , partially offset by lower employee-related costs in the current fiscal quarter . Patent a greement and o ther On May 8, 2015 , we entered into a patent purchase agreement for the sale of certain Company - owned patents relating to our LED lighting products . As a result of this agreement, on June 22, 2015 , the Company received cash consideration of $ 12.5 million from the purchaser. Under the agreement, the Company undert ook to no longer be engaged in LED lighting and received a license under the sold patents for all other fields of use. The proceeds were recorded during fiscal year 201 6 as a recovery of costs previously incurred and are reflected as a separate line item on the c onsolidated c ondensed s tatements of i ncome in operating expenses under the caption Patent agreement and other . Interest income The Company reported interest income of $0.3 million for each of the three months ended June 25, 2016, and June 27, 2015, respectively due to comparable average cash and cash equivalent balances for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 and 2016. Interest expense The Company reported interest expense of $ 1.0 million for each of the three months ended June 25, 2016 , and June 27, 2015, respectively . Interest expense was recorded on the $250 million revolving credit facility described in Note 7 for all periods presented. Other income For t he three months ended June 25, 2016 and June 27, 2015 , the Company reported $ 0.1 million and $0.2 million , respectively, in other income , primarily net gains in foreign currency . Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes is based on estimated effective tax rates derived from an estimate of annual consolidated earnings before taxes, adjusted for nondeductible expenses, other permanent items and any applicable credits. The following table presents the provision for income taxes (in thousands) and the effective tax rates: 21 Three Months Ended June 25, June 27, 2016 2015 Income before income taxes $ 21,669 $ 49,498 Provision for income taxes $ 5,805 $ 16,144 Effective tax rate 26.8% 32.6% Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 was lower than the federal statutory rate primarily due to income in certain foreign jurisdictions taxed below the federal statutory rate and the U.S. R&D tax credit, partially offset by an increase in unrecognized tax benefits. Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2016 was below the federal statutory rate primarily due to income in certain foreign jurisdictions taxed below the federal statutory rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for research and development, capital expenditures, share repurchase, investments in marketable securities, and strategic acquisitions. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operatio ns, cash generated from the sale and maturity of marketable securities, and borrowings under our $250 million senior secured revolving credit facility. Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain current assets and current liabilities. Our operati ng cash flow is affected by the ability of our operations to generate cash, and our management of assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities. Positive cash flow from operati ons was $ 12.2 million for the first three months of fiscal year 201 7 as compared to $ 43.2 million for the c orresponding period of fiscal year 201 6 . The positive cash flow from operations during the current period of fiscal year 201 7 was related to the cash components of our net income, partially offset by a $ 31.3 million unfavorable change in working capital, primarily in accounts receivable and inventories . The positive cash flow from operations during the corresponding quarter of fiscal year 2016 was related to the cash components of our net income, partially offset by a $28.7 million unfavorable change to working capital, primarily in inventories and accounts receivable . Net cash used in investing activities was $ 24.3 million during the first three months of fiscal year 201 7 as compared to $ 0.7 million provided by investing activities during the first three months of fiscal year 201 6 . The cash used in investing activities in the current period i s primarily related to n et purchases of marketable securities of $ 13.8 million and capital expenditures and technology investments of $ 10.5 million . The cash provided by investing activities in the corresponding fiscal year 2016 quarter is primarily related to net maturities and sale s of marketable securities of $13.4 million, partially offset by capital expenditures and technology investments of $ 12.4 million . Net cash used in financing activities was $ 13.1 million during the first three months of fiscal year 201 7 . The cash used during the first three months of fiscal year 201 7 was primarily associated with stock repurchases during the period of $ 16.0 million ($ 15.4 million from repurchase d and retired common stock, $0.6 million from stock repurchases to satisfy employee tax withholdings) , offset by $ 2.4 million for the issuance of common stock, net of shares withheld for taxes for the period and excess tax benefit from employee stock awards of $ 0.5 million . The cash used in financing activities was $17.8 million for the first three months of fisc al year 201 6. The use of cash was primarily associated with $20.0 million in principal payments against the long-term revolver, discussed in Note 7 , partially offset by $2.7 million for the issuance of common stock, net of shares withheld for taxes for the quarter. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and currently intend to continue our policy of retaining any earnings for reinvestment in our business. Although we cannot give assur ance that we will be able to generate cash in the future, we anticipate that our future cash earnings, existing cash, cash equivalents, investments and borrowings available under our Credit Facility are sufficient to meet our 22 capital requirements for at least the next 12 months , although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time . Revolving Credit Facilities On August 29, 2014, Cirrus Logic entered into a credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party thereto. The Credit Agreement provides for a $250 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility replaced an interim credit facility, and may be used for general corporate purposes. The Credit Facility mature s on August 29, 2017 . On June 23, 2015, Cirrus Logic and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, entered into a first amendment of the Credit Agreement (the First Amendment). The First Amendment primarily provides additional flexibility to the Company for certain intercompany transactions. In particular, the First Amendment (i) amended the definition of Permitted Acquisition to increase the threshold whereby the Company must provide certain financial statements and certifications to the Administrative Agent; (ii) expanded the Companys ability to make intercompany investments, including unsecured intercompany indebtedness to fund a Permitted Acquisition; and (iii) provided the Company with the ability, under certain circumstances, to transfer capital stock in a non-guarantor subsidiary to another wholly-owned subsidiary that is not a credit party. The Credit Facility is required to be guaranteed by all of Cirrus Logics material domestic subsidiaries (the Subsidiary Guarantors). The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of Cirrus Logic and any Subsidiary Guarantors, except for certain excluded assets. Borrowings under the Credit Facility may, at Cirrus Logics election, bear interest at either (a) a Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin (Base Rate Loans) or (b) a LIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Margin (LIBOR Rate Loans). The Applicable Margin ranges from 0% to .25% per annum for Base Rate Loans and 1.50% to 2.00% per annum for LIBOR Rate Loans based on Cirrus Logics Leverage Ratio (discussed below). A Commitment Fee accrues at a rate per annum ranging from 0.25% to 0.35% (based on the Leverage Ratio) on the average daily unused portion of the Commitment of the Lenders. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants, including, among others, covenants regarding the payment of taxes and other obligations, maintenance of insurance, reporting requirements and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Further, the Credit Agreement contains customary negative covenants limiting the ability of Cirrus Logic or any Subsidiary to, among other things, incur debt, grant liens, make investments, effect certain fundamental changes, make certain asset dispositions, and make certain restricted payments. The Credit Facility also contains certain financial covenants providing that (a) the ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters must not be greater than 2.00 to 1.00 (the Leverage Ratio) and (b) the sum of cash and Cash Equivalents, which includes marketable securities, of Cirrus Logic and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis must not be less than $100 million. At June 25, 2016, the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement and had $160.4 million of indebtedness outstanding under the Credit Facility, which is included in long-term liabilities on the consolidated condensed balance sheets. The borrowings were primarily used for refinancing an interim credit facility. On July 12, 2016, the Company entered into an amendment to the Credit Agreement for the purpose of increasing the Credit Facility to $300 million and providing ongoing working capital. See Subsequent Event Note 15 for further details.