ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read along with the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements and notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2014, contained in our fiscal year 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) on May 28, 2014. We maintain a web site at investor.cirrus.com , which makes available free of charge our most recent annual report and all other filings we have made with the Commission . This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as expect, anticipate, target, project, believe, goals, estimates, intend, and variations of these types of words and similar expressions which are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement for any reason. For additional information regarding known material factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our projected results, please see Item 1A Risk Factors in our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission on May 28, 2014, and in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors within this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review these risk factors, as well as those identified in other documents filed by us with the Commission. Overview Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus Logic, We, Us, Our, or the Company) develops high-precision, analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits (ICs) for a broad range of audio and energy markets. Building on our diverse analog mixed-signal patent portfolio, Cirrus Logic delivers highly optim ized products for consumer and professional audio, automotive entertainment , and targeted industrial applications including energy control, energy management, light emitting diode (LED) lighting and energy exploration . Critical Accounting Policies 13 Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U. S. GAAP . The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. There were no material changes in the first three months of fiscal year 201 5 to the information provided under the heading Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2014 . Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC Topic 606) . The purpose of the ASU is to converge revenue recognition requirements per GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The amendments in this ASU are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption not permitted by the FASB. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the first three months o f fiscal years 2015 and 2014 as a percentage of net sales. All percentage amounts were calculated using the underlying data in thousands , unaudite d: Three Months Ended June 28, June 29, 2014 2013 Net sales 100% 100% Gross margin 49% 51% Research and development 26% 18% Selling, general and administrative 13% 12% Patent infringement settlements, net 0% 1% Restructuring and other 0% 0% Income from operations 10% 20% Interest income 0% 0% Interest expense 0% 0% Other income (expense) 0% 0% Income before income taxes 10% 20% Provision for income taxes 3% 7% Net income 7% 13% Net Sales Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 decreased $2. 5 million, or 2 percent, to $152.6 million from $155.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 201 4 . Net sales from our audio products decreased $2 .5 million, or 2 percent, primarily due to lower average selling prices (ASPs) in portable audio in the current quarter versus the same time period in the prior fiscal year. Energy product sales decreased $0.1 14 million, or less than 1 percent, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 versus the comparable quarter of the prior fiscal year . Export sales, principally to Asia, including sales to U.S.-based customers with manufacturing plants overseas, were 93 percent of net sales during the first quarter of each of fiscal years 2015 and 2014. Our sales are denominated primar ily in U.S. dollars. As a result, we have not entered into foreign currency hedging contracts, other than the hedge entered into in connection with the pending Wolfson acquisition. Since the components we produce are largely proprietary and generally not available from second sources, we consider our end customer to be the entity specifying the use of our component in their design. These end customers may then purchase our products directly from us, from an external sales representative or distributor, or through a third party manufacturer contracted to produce their designs. For the first quarter of fiscal years 2015 and 2014, our ten largest end customers represented approximately 85 percent and 87 percent of our net sales, respectively. We had one end customer, Apple Inc. that purchased through multiple contract manufacturers and represented approximately 73 percent and 77 percent of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of fiscal years 201 5 and 201 4 , respectively. None of our distributor s represented more than 1 0 percent of our sales for the three month periods ending June 28, 2014 and June 29, 2013. For more information, please see Part II Item 1A We depend on a limited number of customers and distributors for a substantial portion of our sales, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, or pricing on products sold to, any key customer or distributor could significantly reduce our sales or profitability . No other end customer or distributor represented more than 10 percent of net sales for the three month periods ending June 28, 2014 and June 29, 2013 . Gross Margin Gross margin was 49.4 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2015, down from 51.2 percent in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014. The year-over-year decrease in gross margin was primarily du e to a shift in product mix toward products with lower ASPs. Offsetting the decrease was an increase in shipments of certain higher margin general market audio products, as well as a decrease in inventory reserve charges compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2014. Research and Development Expense Research and development expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 5 was $ 39.8 million, an increase of $ 11.3 million, or 39 percent, from $ 28.5 million in the first quarter of fisca l year 201 4 . This increase was primarily due to increased expenses in product development, inclu ding tape outs, an 18 percent increase in research and development headcount and associated salary, employee-related expenses and facilities costs, as well as increased expenses related to CAD software investments. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and ad ministrative (SG&A) expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 5 was $ 19.7 million, a n in crease of $ 0.5 million, or 3 pe rcent, from $19.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014. The increase was primarily attributable to higher professional expenses for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 as the Company experienced a 5 percent increase in SG&A headcount for the quarter. Patent Infringement Settlements, net The Company recorded a $0.7 million expense in the first q uarter of fiscal year 2014 in connection with the settlement of the U.S. Ethernet Innovations, LLC case discussed in Note 1 1 Legal Matters. This 15 item is presented as a separate line item within operating expenses in the consolidated condensed statements of comprehensive income. Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes is based on estimated effective tax rates derived from an estimate of annual consolidated earnings before taxes, adjusted for nondeductible expenses, other permanent items and any applicable credits. Our income tax expense is primarily a non-cash charge due to the utilization of U.S. net operating losses. The following table presents the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rates (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 28, June 29, 2014 2013 Income before income taxes $ 15,949 $ 31,646 Provision for income taxes $ 5,701 $ 11,004 Effective tax rate 35.7% 34.8% Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 was slightly above the federal statutory rate primarily due to the effect of permanent differences that are nondeductible for tax purposes. Our income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 was slightly below the federal statutory rate primarily due to the effect of the federal research and development credit which was extended through December 31, 2013 by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 which was enacted on January 2, 2013. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for research and development, capital expenditures, share repurchase s , investments in marketable securities, and strategic acquisitions. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations, cash generated from the sale and maturity of marketable securities, funds from equity issuances and borrowings under our new $225 million senior secured revolving credit facility . Cash provided by operating activities is net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain current assets and current liabilities. Our operational cash flows are affected by the ability of our operations to generate cash, and our management of our assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $12.8 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 201 5 as compared to $36.7 million in operating activities for the c orresponding period of fiscal year 201 4. The source of cash in operations during the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 was primarily related to the cash components of our net income, offset by an $8.7 million decrease in working capital . The primary source of cash in operations during the corresponding period of fiscal year 201 4 was primarily related to the cash components of our net income. Net cash provided by investing activities was $223.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 5 as compared to $ 36.7 million used in investing activities during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 4. The in crease i s primarily related to movements in the current quarter toward more liquid investments in anticipation of financing the closing of the Wolfson acquisition, expected to occur in the second quarter of fiscal year 2015. See Note 7 Acquisition and Note 8 Revolving Line of Credit for additional details. Proceeds from the sale of marketable securities of $246.9 million made up the majority of the movement toward more liquid assets during the current quarter, offset by the $11.1 million foreign currency hedge purchased in conjunction with the acquisition discussed in Note 7, purchases of marketable securities of $9.3 million and the purchase of proper ty, equipment and software of $3.3 million . For the cor responding period in fiscal year 201 4, the Company had net purchases of marketable securities of $3 4.8 million and paid $1. 2 million for the purchase of property, equipment and software. 16 Net cash provided by financing activities was $ 0.7 million during the first quarter of both fiscal year s 201 5 and 2014 . The cash provided during the first quarter of fiscal year 201 5 was primarily associated with the excess tax benefit related to employee stock option exercises of $3.1 million and $0.9 million for the issuance of common stock, net of shares withheld for taxes , partially offset by payments for debt issuance costs related to the Wolfson acquisition of $3.0 million. The cash provided during the first quarter of fisc al year 2014 was due to the net issuance of common stock, net of shares withheld for taxes. The Company continued expansion of operations in fiscal year 2015 with continued work on additional facilities in Austin. We anticipate future costs related to the current expansion to range from $ 18 million to $20 million over the next year. We anticipate these cash uses to be funded from current cash sources. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and currently intend to continue our policy of retaining any earnings for reinvestment in our business. Although we cannot give assur ance that we will be able to generate cash in the future, we anticipate that our future cash earnings, existing cash, cash equivalents, investments and credit under our Credit Facility are sufficient to meet our capital requirements for at least the next 12 months , although we could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding prior to that time . Revolving Credit Facilities On April 29, 2014, we announced that we and the board of directors of Wolfson Microelectronics plc, a public limited company incorporated in Scotland (Wolfson) agreed on the terms of a recommended cash offer of 2.35 per share (the Offer) to be made by us for the acquisition of the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Wolfson (the Acquisition). The Offer values the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Wolfson at approximately 291 million (approximately $488 million based on a U.S. dollar-to-pound sterling exchange rate of 1.68) (the Offer Consideration), and implies an enterprise value of Wolfson of approximately 278 million (approximately $467 million based on a U.S. dollar to pound sterling exchange rate of 1.68). The Acquisition will be effected by means of a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement under the laws of the United Kingdom (the Scheme). On June 23, 2014, Wolfson announced that Wolfson shareholders approved the Acquisition. Completion of the Acquisition remains subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including the sanction of the Scheme by the Court of Session in Edinburgh, Scotland. The Acquisition is expected to close in the second quarter of fiscal year 2015. On April 29, 2014, in connection with the Acquisition, we entered into the Credit Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as administrative agent and lender. The Credit Agreement provides for a $225 million senior secured revolving credit facility. The Credit Facility may be used for, among other things, payment of the Offer Consideration in connection with the Acquisition. The Credit Facility matures on the earliest to occur of (a) January 23, 2015, (b) the date of termination of the Commitments as a result of a permanent reduction of all of the Commitments (as defined in the Credit Agreement) by Cirrus Logic or (c) the date of termination of the Commitments as a result of an event of default (such date, the Maturity Date). We must repay the outstanding principal amount of all borrowings, together with all accrued but unpaid interest thereon, on the Maturity Date. The Credit Facility is required to be guaranteed by all of Cirrus Logics material domestic subsidiaries (the Subsidiary Guarantors). The Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of Cirrus Logic and any Subsidiary Guarantors, except for certain excluded assets. Borrowings under the Credit Facility may, at our election, bear interest at either (a) a base rate plus the applicable margin (Base Rate Loans) or (b) a LIBOR rate plus the applicable margin (LIBOR Rate Loans). The applicable margin ranges from 0% to .25% per annum for Base Rate Loans and 1.75% to 2.25% per annum for LIBOR Rate Loans based on Cirrus Logics Leverage Ratio (as defined below). A commitment fee accrues at a rate per annum ranging from 0.30% to 0.40% (based on the Leverage Ratio) on the average daily unused portion of the Commitments. We are entitled to borrow only in U.S. dollars under the Credit Facility. The Offer Consideration in connection with the Acquisition is payable in Great Britain pounds sterling; therefore, we entered into a separate nine-month foreign currency hedging contract with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, which is expected to mitigate the risk of fluctuations in the dollar/pounds sterling exchange rates in relation to the payment of the Offer Consideration in connection with the Acquisition. There were no borrowings under the facility as of June 28, 2014. 17 The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants, including, among others, covenants regarding the payment of taxes and other obligations, maintenance of insurance, reporting requirements and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Further, the Credit Agreement contains certain negative covenants limiting the ability of Cirrus Logic or any Subsidiary to, among other things, incur debt, grant liens, make investments, effect certain fundamental changes, make certain asset dispositions, and make certain restricted payments. The Credit Facility also contains certain financial covenants providing that (a) the ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA for the prior four consecutive quarters must not be greater than 1.75 to 1.00 (the Leverage Ratio) and (b) the sum of cash and cash equivalents of Cirrus Logic and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis must not be less than $75 million. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility as of June 28, 2014. The Credit Facility provides for a Certain Funds Period during which limited borrowing conditions apply and only breaches of certain major representations and major defaults or illegality may prevent funding the Offer Consideration in order to comply with the certain funds requirements of the United Kingdom City Code on Takeover and Mergers. Following the Certain Funds Period, the Credit Facility provides for a clean-up period to permit us to cure certain technical breaches. The Company maintained an unsecured revolving credit facility (the Expired Credit Facility) until early fiscal year 2014. The aggregate borrowing limit under the Expired Credit Facility was $100 million, with a $15 million letter of credit sublimit and was intended to provide the Company with short-term borrowings for working capital and other general corporate purposes. There were no outstanding amounts under the facility prior to its expiration on April 19, 2013. See also Note 8 Revolving Line of Credit.