ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our audited historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risk, uncertainties and other factors. Actual results could differ materially because of the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. Page 22 of 71 Table of Contents Overview We were incorporated in California in 1984, became a public company in 1989, and were reincorporated in the State of Delaware in February 1999. Initially, our focus was on providing ICs for personal computer applications, including personal computer (PC) graphics and storage. In 2001, we refocused our business efforts away from these areas, which we believed had become commodity-like in terms of pricing and offered diminished opportunities for sustained product differentiation and profitability. We reinforced our commitment to operate efficiently and profitably by taking strategic actions beginning in 2005 to improve our top and bottom line growth, including: (1) improving efficiencies by focusing on our mixed-signal audio and energy product lines, (2) divesting our digital video product line assets and non-core products to focus on our core strengths, and (3) enhancing our capital structure by completing a $150 million stock repurchase program in fiscal year 2009 to increase long-term stockholder value. We continued this process in fiscal years 2010 and 2011 by focusing on winning new designs, growing our market share in portable audio products in particular, completing another $20 million stock repurchase program, announcing another $80 million stock buyback, and by laying the foundation for growth in our energy products. Fiscal Year 2011 In fiscal year 2011 we continued our strategy of targeting and developing relationships with Tier 1 customers in growing markets, such as portable audio products, including smartphones; automobile audio amplifiers; and energy measurement and energy control. We build on our diverse analog and signal-processing patent portfolio by delivering highly optimized products for a variety of audio and energy-related applications. While we dedicate substantial resources and investments towards portable audio products, we are also investing in energy-related applications. Our current investments in the Energy product lines are focused on energy measurement and the energy control areas such as power factor correction, motor control, and lighting. We have received our first digital LED lighting controller back from the fab, and have a Tier 1 customer currently evaluating the use of this device. Fiscal year 2011 net sales of $369.6 million represented a 67 percent increase over fiscal year 2010 net sales of $221.0 million. Audio product line sales of $264.8 million in fiscal year 2011 represented a 72 percent increase over fiscal year 2010 sales of $153.7 million, and were primarily attributable to higher sales of portable audio and surround codec products. Energy product line sales of $104.7 million in fiscal year 2011 represented a 56 percent increase over fiscal year 2010 sales of $67.3 million, and were primarily attributable to higher seismic, power meter, and power amplification products. Overall gross margin of 54.7 percent for fiscal year 2011 reflects an increase from fiscal year 2010 margin of 53.7 percent due to enhanced supply chain management, activity within the energy product line, and in particular to the sales of seismic, power meter, and power amplification products. With expanding design win opportunities in both our audio and energy product lines, the Company continued to take advantage of the availability of engineering talent, which resulted in an increase of 64 research and development employees, or 26 percent, as compared to the end of fiscal year 2010. The Company achieved net income of $203.5 million in fiscal year 2011, which included a benefit for income taxes in the amount of $119.3 million as a result of the realization of an additional $120.0 million of net deferred tax assets. Finally, the Companys cash, cash equivalents and investments balances as of March 26, 2011, of $215.1 million reflects an increase of $73.5 million, or 52 percent, over the ending balances from the prior fiscal year. Fiscal Year 2010 Fiscal year 2010 net sales of $221 million represented a 27 percent increase over fiscal year 2009 net sales of $174.6 million. Increased sales from our audio product line, in particular portable audio and surround codec products, were key drivers in the overall improvement in top-line revenues in fiscal year 2010 versus the prior fiscal year. Page 23 of 71 Table of Contents While fiscal year 2010 net sales from our energy product line reflected a net 13 percent reduction from fiscal year 2009 results, the energy product line ended its fiscal year on a positive note with increased sales of seismic and power meter products, as well as improved performance from ARM and communication products. We saw improvements in a variety of our energy product lines throughout fiscal year 2010, as our traditional industrial business benefitted from the improving economy. Seismic product sales were down from prior year peak levels, although they improved sequentially throughout fiscal year 2010. Overall gross margin of 53.7 percent for fiscal year 2010 reflected a decrease from fiscal year 2009 margin of 55.6 percent due to the recent growth in sales of portable audio products, as well as a mix change to lower margin products in our energy product line driven primarily by a reduction in seismic product sales in fiscal year 2010. The Company achieved net income of $38.4 million in fiscal year 2010, which included an $11.9 million recognition of deferred tax assets. The $38.4 million of net income in fiscal year 2010 represented an increase of $34.9 million over fiscal year 2009 net income of $3.5 million. Finally, the Companys cash, cash equivalents and investments balances as of March 27, 2010, of $141.6 million reflects an increase of $21.4 million over the ending balances from the prior fiscal year. Fiscal Year 2009 For fiscal year 2009, net sales were down approximately 4 percent from the preceding year. However, our strength in revenue from new products and prudent expense management were key drivers in the Company maintaining bottom-line profitability for the year as a whole while establishing a solid base for future growth. Results of Operations The following table summarizes the results of our operations for each of the past three fiscal years as a percentage of net sales. All percentage amounts were calculated using the underlying data, in thousands: Fiscal Years Ended March 26, March 27, March 28, 2011 2010 2009 Audio products 72 % 70 % 56 % Energy products 28 % 30 % 44 % Net sales 100 % 100 % 100 % Gross margin 55 % 54 % 56 % Research and development 17 % 23 % 26 % Selling, general and administrative 16 % 21 % 26 % Restructuring costs and other, net % % % Impairment of (proceeds from) non-marketable securities % % % Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements % (1 %) 1 % Patent agreement, net (1 %) % % Impairment of intangible assets % % 1 % Income from operations 23 % 11 % 2 % Interest income % 1 % 2 % Other income (expense), net % % % Income before income taxes 23 % 12 % 4 % Provision (benefit) for income taxes (32 %) (5 %) 2 % Net income 55 % 17 % 2 % Page 24 of 71 Table of Contents Net Sales We report sales in two product categories: audio products and energy products. Our sales by product line are as follows (in thousands): March 26, March 27, March 28, 2011 2010 2009 Audio products $ 264,840 $ 153,661 $ 97,293 Energy products 104,731 67,328 77,349 Total $ 369,571 $ 220,989 $ 174,642 Net sales for fiscal year 2011 increased 67 percent, to $369.6 million from $221.0 million in fiscal year 2010. The increase in net sales reflects a $111.2 million increase in audio product sales and a $37.4 million increase in energy product sales. The audio products group experienced growth primarily from the sales of portable and surround codecs products, while the energy product group sales increases were primarily attributable to sales of seismic, power meter, and power amplification products. Net sales for fiscal year 2010 increased 27 percent, to $221.0 million from $174.6 million in fiscal year 2009. The increase in net sales reflects a $56.4 million increase in audio product sales and a $10.0 million decrease in energy product sales. The audio products group experienced growth from the sales of portable and surround codecs products, which were partially offset by decreases in ADC and interface product sales. Within the energy product group, sales decreases were primarily attributable to lower sales of seismic, communications, and ARM processor-based products. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in power meter products sales. Export sales, principally to Asia, including sales to U.S.-based customers that manufacture products at plants overseas, were approximately $302.7 million in fiscal year 2011, $173.6 million in fiscal year 2010, and $119.5 million in fiscal year 2009. Export sales to customers located in Asia were 70 percent, 65 percent, and 48 percent of net sales in fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. All other export sales represented 12 percent, 14 percent, and 20 percent of net sales in fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Our sales are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. During fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, we did not enter into any foreign currency hedging contracts. Gross Margin Overall gross margin of 54.7 percent for fiscal year 2011 reflects an increase from fiscal year 2010 margin of 53.7 percent, primarily due to enhanced supply chain management, sales activity within the energy product line, and in particular to the sales of seismic, power meter, and power amplification products. The sale of product written down in prior fiscal years contributed approximately $1.5 million, or 0.4 percent, to gross margin compared to approximately $1.3 million, or 0.6 percent, in fiscal year 2010. In total, excess and obsolete inventory charges, including scrapped inventory, increased by $5.1 million from fiscal year 2010 and resulted in a decrease of gross margin by 1.4 percent. The $5.1 million increase in excess and obsolete inventory charges was primarily attributable to a charge of approximately $4.2 million in the fourth quarter of the Companys current fiscal year due to a production issue with a new audio device that entered high volume production in March 2011. Gross margin was 54 percent in fiscal year 2010, down from 56 percent in fiscal year 2009. The decrease in margin from fiscal year 2009 was mainly due to changes in both customer and product mix. While the audio product group experienced a slight increase in margin from fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2010 and the energy group margins were essentially unchanged for this comparable period, the increase in the percentage of sales from the audio group in fiscal year 2010 caused a net reduction in overall margins. The sale of product that had been written down in prior fiscal years contributed approximately $1.3 million, or 0.6 percent, to gross margin compared to a contribution of approximately $1.6 million, or 0.9 percent, in fiscal year 2009. In total, excess and obsolete inventory charges increased by $0.6 million from fiscal year 2009, which resulted in a decrease in gross margin by 0.3 percent. Page 25 of 71 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses Fiscal year 2011 research and development expenses of $63.9 million reflect an increase of $12.5 million, or 24 percent, from fiscal year 2010. The variance was primarily due to a 26 percent increase in research and development headcount and associated employee expenses, including variable compensation attributable to improved operating profit. Additionally, employment expenses also increased primarily due to contract labor costs and employee hiring related expenses. Fiscal year 2010 research and development expenses of $51.4 million reflect an increase of $7.1 million, or 16 percent, from fiscal year 2009. The increase was primarily due to $3.5 million in salary and benefit costs associated with research and development personnel, whose headcount increased 12 percent in fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. Additionally, product development expenses increased $2.8 million, primarily due to higher photo-mask expenses. These increases in research and development expenses were partially offset by non-recurring engineering work performed and billed to third parties, which resulted in a $0.6 million reduction in research and development expenses. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Fiscal year 2011 selling, general and administrative expenses of $58.1 million reflect an increase of $12.1 million, or 26 percent, compared to fiscal year 2010. The $12.1 million increase was primarily attributable to increased variable compensation costs driven by improved operating profit, as well as to higher stock option expenses and external sales representative commissions. The number of employees in the selling, general, and administrative expense category remained essentially unchanged from the end of fiscal year 2010. Fiscal year 2010 selling, general and administrative expenses of $45.9 million reflect an increase of $0.6 million, or 1 percent, compared to fiscal year 2009 as an increase in salaries and benefits costs was offset by decreased expenses across several expense categories. A $2.3 million increase in salaries and benefits costs was primarily attributable to increased headcount, and also due to higher sales commissions brought on by increased product sales and fluctuations in commissionable product mix in fiscal year 2010 versus fiscal year 2009. Offsetting this increase was a $0.6 million reduction in net rent expenses, a $0.6 decrease in marketing expenses, and a $0.5 million reduction in professional expenses. Restructuring Costs and Other, net During fiscal year 2010, we recorded net restructuring charges of $0.5 million as a separate line item on the statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Restructuring costs and other, net. The restructuring charge was primarily due to revised sublease assumptions for lease space within our corporate headquarters building. As of March 26, 2011, we have a remaining restructuring accrual for all of our past restructurings of $0.4 million, primarily related to future lease payments net of anticipated subleases that will be paid over the respective lease terms through the summer of calendar year 2012. We have classified $0.1 million of this restructuring accrual as long-term. Impairment of (Proceeds From) Non-Marketable Securities In the second quarter of the current fiscal year, the Company recognized a loss on the impairment of an equity investment in the amount of $0.5 million. Our original investment was in the form of a note receivable, which was then converted into an equity security during the second quarter of the current fiscal year. After the conversion, we determined that an impairment indicator existed related to our cost method investment. We performed a fair value analysis of our cost method investment in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 320 Investments Debt and Equity Securities. Based on the results of this analysis as of September 25, 2010, we recognized an impairment of $0.5 million to reduce the carrying value of the cost method investment to zero. The impairment was recorded as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Impairment of (proceeds from) non-marketable securities. Page 26 of 71 Table of Contents In the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, as part of a convertible note financing round for Magnum Semiconductor, Inc. (Magnum), a company that we had previously had an investment in, we received proceeds of $500 thousand from Magnum as consideration for our ownership interest in Magnum securities, which in fiscal year 2008 had previously been fully impaired. The proceeds were recorded as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Impairment of (proceeds from) non-marketable securities. Provision (Benefit) For Litigation Expenses and Settlements During the fourth quarter of the current fiscal year, in response to certain patent infringement allegations, the Company incurred $57 thousand as part of the execution of a Settlement and License Agreement. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, the Company received proceeds of $113 thousand reflecting the final resolution of litigation with Silvaco Data Systems. Of this amount, $30 thousand represented the settlement awarded to the Company, and the balance represented recoveries of certain litigation expenses and interest. Finally, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, the Company incurred $135 thousand in settlement costs related to a dispute with a former distributor of the Companys products. These transactions, in the cumulative net amount of $162 thousand, are reflected as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements. On March 23, 2009, a lawsuit was filed against the Company alleging patent infringement. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2010, a settlement agreement was concluded which resulted in Cirrus Logic recognizing a $135 thousand charge related to the suit. In a separate matter, on June 17, 2009, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, the Company received proceeds of a net $2.7 million from its insurance carrier as part of the final settlement of litigation where a purported stockholder filed a derivative lawsuit in the state district court in Travis county, Texas against current and former officers and directors of the Company related to certain prior grants of stock options by the Company. The proceeds of $2.7 million were recorded as a recovery of costs previously incurred in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 450, Contingencies. The combined net amount of $2.6 million from these two fiscal year 2010 transactions are reflected as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements. During fiscal year 2009, we recognized a $2.2 million charge related to legal fees and expenses associated with the derivative lawsuits. The charge was recorded as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Provision (benefit) for litigation expenses and settlements. Patent Agreement, Net On July 13, 2010, we entered into a Patent Purchase Agreement for the sale of certain Company owned patents. As a result of this agreement, on August 31, 2010, the Company received cash consideration of $4.0 million from the purchaser. The proceeds were recorded as a recovery of costs previously incurred and are reflected as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Patent agreement, net. On June 11, 2009, we entered into a Patent Purchase Agreement for the sale of certain Company owned patents and on August 26, 2009, the Company received cash consideration of $1.4 million from the purchaser. The proceeds were recorded as a recovery of costs previously incurred and are reflected as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Patent agreement, net. Impairment of Intangible Assets In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we noted several impairment indicators surrounding patents that we acquired in June 2007. We performed an impairment analysis under FASB ASC Topic 360 Property, Plant, and Equipment, and noted that the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated from these patents were less than the carrying amount of the assets. We then compared the estimated fair value of these Page 27 of 71 Table of Contents assets to their carrying amount and recognized an impairment loss of $2.1 million. The impairment was recorded as a separate line item on the consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses under the caption Impairment of intangible assets. Interest Income Interest income in fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, was $0.9 million, $1.3 million, and $2.8 million respectively. The decrease in interest income in fiscal year 2011 compared to fiscal year 2010, as well as for fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009, was attributable to lower yields on invested capital. Income Taxes We recorded an income tax benefit of $119.3 million in fiscal year 2011 on a pre-tax income of $84.2 million, yielding an effective tax benefit rate of 142 percent. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent, primarily as a result of the release of a portion of the valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets that have not yet been utilized. The release of a portion of the valuation allowance generated a $120.0 million tax benefit and was based on an evaluation of the net U.S. deferred tax assets that we expect are more likely than not to be utilized in the upcoming years as a result of projected net income. We recorded an income tax benefit of $11.7 million in fiscal year 2010 on a pre-tax income of $26.7 million, yielding an effective tax benefit rate of 44 percent. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent, primarily as a result of the realization of deferred tax assets that had been fully reserved and the release of a portion of the valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets that have not yet been utilized. The release of a portion of the valuation allowance generated an $11.8 million tax benefit and was based on an evaluation of the net U.S. deferred tax assets that we expect to utilize in the upcoming year as a result of projected tax basis net income. We recorded an income tax provision of $2.7 million in fiscal year 2009 on a pre-tax income of $6.2 million, yielding an effective tax rate of 44 percent. Our effective tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent primarily due to a $2.7 million charge to tax expense to increase the valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets. We evaluate our ability to realize our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis. We have deferred tax assets generated in non-U.S. jurisdictions that we have recognized since it is more likely than not that these assets will be realized. Outlook Based on our strategic plan, our long-term business model targets for the Company are annual revenue growth of 15 percent, gross margins of 55 percent, and operating profit of 20 percent. In fiscal year 2012, we anticipate revenue growth below this target in the first two quarters, with stronger revenue growth in the second half of the fiscal year when new product introductions from multiple customers begin shipping in full production. Liquidity and Capital Resources In fiscal year 2011, our net cash provided by operating activities was $86.9 million. The positive cash flow from operating activities was predominantly due to the cash components of our net income, which were partially offset by a $12.8 million reduction in working capital. In fiscal year 2010, our operating activities generated $25.1 million in cash. The positive cash flow from operating activities was predominantly due to the cash components of our net income, which were partially offset by a $14.0 million decrease in working capital. In fiscal year 2009, our operating activities generated $23.1 million in cash. The positive cash flow from operating activities was predominantly due to the cash components of our net income coupled with a $2.3 million increase in working capital. In fiscal year 2011, we used approximately $74.2 million in cash from investing activities, principally due to the net purchase of $52.7 million in marketable securities. In addition, during fiscal year 2011, we invested Page 28 of 71 Table of Contents $20.1 million in property, equipment, and capitalized software, primarily attributable to the purchase of land for our new corporate headquarters in the amount of $10.8 million, coupled with $2.4 million in headquarters construction costs. During fiscal year 2011, we also incurred $1.5 million for investments in technology. In fiscal year 2010, we used approximately $42.6 million in cash from investing activities, principally due to the net purchase of $36.8 million in marketable securities. In addition, during fiscal year 2010, we invested $3.7 million in property, equipment, and capitalized software and $2.2 million in technology. In fiscal year 2009, we generated approximately $36.5 million in cash from investing activities, principally due to the net sale of $41.8 million in marketable securities. In addition, during fiscal year 2009, we invested $3.1 million in property, equipment, and capitalized software and $2.1 million in technology. During fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, we generated $31.0 million, $2.0 million and $2.6 million, respectively, in cash from financing activities related to the receipt of cash from common stock issuances as a result of the exercises of employee stock options and, in fiscal year 2009, our employee stock purchase plan. In fiscal years 2011 and 2009, the Company utilized approximately $22.8 million and $87.2 million in cash, respectively, to repurchase and retire portions of its outstanding common stock, as previously discussed in Part II Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities . As of March 26, 2011, we had restricted investments of $5.8 million, which primarily secures certain obligations under our lease agreement for our principal facility located in Austin, Texas. This facility is 197,000 square feet and houses our headquarters and engineering operations. The cash restriction for this lease agreement is reduced to $2.6 million in September 2011 and expires in May 2012. As of March 26, 2011 the Company has no debt arrangements. The Company has commenced construction of our planned new headquarters facility in Austin, Texas with completion expected in the summer of calendar year 2012. We estimate that as of March 26, 2011 the remaining facility construction costs will be approximately $30 million and will generally occur ratably throughout the construction process. In addition, we estimate that we will incur an additional $9 million in furniture, fixtures, and equipment in order to fully move our headquarters employees into this new facility. It is anticipated that the project will be funded internally from existing and future cash flows. Although we cannot provide assurances to our stockholders that we will be able to generate cash in the future, we anticipate that our existing capital resources and cash flow generated from future operations will enable us to maintain our current level of operations for at least the next 12 months. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 26, 2011, the Company did not have any material off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. Page 29 of 71 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations In our business activities, we incur certain commitments to make future payments under contracts such as purchase orders, operating leases and other long-term contracts. The Company has no debt arrangements. Maturities under these contracts are set forth in the following table as of March 26, 2011: Payment due by period (In thousands) 5 years Total Facilities leases, net $ 4,454 $ 1,922 $ $ $ 6,376 Equipment leases 18 21 5 44 Wafer purchase commitments 19,221 19,221 Assembly purchase commitments 2,647 2,647 Outside test purchase commitments 3,417 3,417 Manufacturing raw materials 1,723 1,723 Other purchase commitments 189 189 Total $ 31,669 $ 1,943 $ 5 $ $ 33,617 Certain of our operating lease obligations include escalation clauses. These escalating payment requirements are reflected in the table. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010-06, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements (ASU 2010-06), which amends the disclosure guidance with respect to fair value measurements. Specifically, the new guidance requires disclosure of amounts transferred in and out of Levels 1 and 2 fair value measurements, a reconciliation presented on a gross basis rather than a net basis of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, greater disaggregation of the assets and liabilities for which fair value measurements are presented and more robust disclosure of the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure Level 2 and 3 fair value measurements. ASU 2010-06 was effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, with the exception of the new guidance around the Level 3 activity reconciliations, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010. The adoption of this pronouncement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the consolidated financial statements included in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts. We evaluate the estimates on an on-going basis. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies involve significant judgments and estimates that are used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements: For purposes of determining the variables used in the calculation of stock compensation expense for stock options under the provisions of FASB ASC Topic 505, Equity and FASB ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, we perform an analysis of current market data and historical company data to calculate an estimate of implied volatility, the expected term of the option, and the expected forfeiture rate. With the exception of the expected forfeiture rate, which is not an input, we Page 30 of 71 Table of Contents use these estimates as variables in the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Depending upon the number of stock options granted, any fluctuations in these calculations could have a material effect on the results presented in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. In addition, any differences between estimated forfeitures and actual forfeitures could also have a material impact on our financial statements. We recognize revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, when all of the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery of goods has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. We evaluate our distributor arrangements, on a distributor by distributor basis, with respect to each of the four criteria above. For a majority of our distributor arrangements, we provide rights of price protection and stock rotation. As a result, revenue is deferred at the time of shipment to our domestic distributors and certain international distributors due to the determination that the ultimate sales price to the distributor is not fixed or determinable. Once the distributor has resold the product, and our final sales price is fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue for the final sales price and record the related costs of sales. For certain of our smaller international distributors, we do not grant price protection rights and provide minimal stock rotation rights. For these distributors, revenue is recognized upon delivery to the distributor, less an allowance for estimated returns, as the revenue recognition criteria have been met upon shipment. Further, the Company defers the associated cost of goods sold on our consolidated balance sheet, net within the deferred income on shipments to distributors current liability caption. The Company routinely evaluates the products held by our distributors for impairment to the extent such products may be returned by the distributor within these limited rights and such products would be considered excess or obsolete if included within our own inventory. Products returned by distributors and subsequently scrapped have historically been immaterial to the Company. We believe this treatment is in accordance with ASC Topic 330-10-35, Inventory . The Company evaluates accounts receivable in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 310, Receivables. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability or failure of our customers to make required payments. We regularly evaluate our allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the age of the receivable, our ongoing customer relations, as well as any disputes with the customer. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. Additionally, we may maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses on receivables from customers with whom we are involved in litigation. See Note 4 Accounts Receivable, net of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. The Company evaluates inventory in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 330, Inventory. Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost or market, with cost being determined on a first-in, first-out basis. We write down inventories to net realizable value based on forecasted demand, management judgment, and the age of inventory. Actual demand and market conditions may be different from those projected by management, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. We evaluate the recoverability of property, plant, and equipment and intangible assets in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment , and FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. We test for impairment losses on long-lived assets used in operations when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the assets carrying amounts. An impairment loss is recognized in the event the carrying value of these assets exceeds the fair value of the applicable assets. Impairment evaluations involve management estimates of asset useful lives and future cash flows. Actual useful lives and cash flows could be different from those estimated by management, which Page 31 of 71 Table of Contents could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. See Note 7 Intangibles, net of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. The Company evaluates goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other. Goodwill is recorded at the time of an acquisition and is calculated as the difference between the total consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Accounting for acquisitions requires extensive use of accounting estimates and judgments to allocate the purchase price to the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, including in-process research and development (IPR&D). Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment tests. If the assumptions and estimates used to allocate the purchase price are not correct, or if business conditions change, purchase price adjustments or future asset impairment charges could be required. The value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) any future declines in our operating results, (ii) a decline in the valuation of technology company stocks, including the valuation of our common stock, (iii) a significant slowdown in the worldwide economy and the semiconductor industry, or (iv) any failure to meet the performance projections included in our forecasts of future operating results. In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 350, the Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if the Company believes indicators of impairment exist. Impairment evaluations involve management estimates of asset useful lives and future cash flows. Significant management judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the evaluations. It is possible, however, that the plans and estimates used may be incorrect. If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used in future impairment analysis, are lower than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur additional impairment charges in a future period. Our available-for-sale investments, non-marketable securities and other investments are subject to a periodic impairment review pursuant to FASB ASC Topic 320, Investments Debt and Equity Securities. Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary. This determination requires significant judgment and actual results may be materially different than our estimate. Marketable securities are evaluated for impairment if the decline in fair value below cost basis is significant and/or has lasted for an extended period of time. Non-marketable securities or other investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary. For investments accounted for using the cost method of accounting, we evaluate information (e.g., budgets, business plans, financial statements) in addition to quoted market prices, if any, in determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in value exists. Factors indicative of an other-than-temporary decline include recurring operating losses, credit defaults, and subsequent rounds of financings at an amount below the cost basis of the investment. This list is not all inclusive and we weigh all quantitative and qualitative factors in determining if an other-than-temporary decline in value of an investment has occurred. When a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we recognize an impairment loss in the current periods operating results to the extent of the decline. Actual values could be different from those estimated by management, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. See Note 3 Marketable Securities and Note 5 Non-Marketable Securities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. In accordance with Statement of FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, we provide for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. The Company evaluates the ability to realize its deferred tax assets by using a three year forecast to determine the amount of net operating losses and other deferred tax assets that would be utilized if we achieved the results set forth in the three year forecast. The Company limited the forecast period to three years because of the cyclical and competitive nature of the semiconductor industry, and the Companys reliance on a key customer who accounted for approximately 47 percent of total sales in fiscal year 2011. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the results set forth in our three year forecast and our actual results may differ materially from our forecast. Page 32 of 71 Table of Contents We have provided a valuation allowance against a portion of our net U.S. deferred tax assets due to uncertainties regarding their realization. We evaluate our ability to realize our deferred tax assets basis by determining whether or not the anticipated future taxable income is expected to be sufficient to utilize the deferred tax assets that we have recognized. If our future income is not sufficient to utilize the deferred tax assets that we have recognized, we increase the valuation allowance to the point at which all of the remaining recognized deferred tax assets will be utilized by the future taxable income. If our anticipated future taxable income is sufficient to conclude that additional deferred tax assets should be recognized, we decrease the valuation allowance. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax rules and the potential for future adjustment of our uncertain tax positions by the internal revenue service or other taxing jurisdiction. If our estimates of these taxes are greater or less than actual results, an additional tax benefit or charge will result. See Note 15 Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. Restructuring charges for workforce reductions and facilities consolidations reflected in the accompanying financial statements were accrued based upon specific plans established by management, in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations. We use an estimated borrowing rate as the discount rate for all of our restructuring accruals made under FASB ASC Topic 420. Our facilities consolidation accruals are based upon our estimates as to the length of time a facility would be vacant, as well as the amount of sublease income we would receive once we sublet the facility, after considering current and projected market conditions. Changes in these estimates could result in an adjustment to our restructuring accruals in a future quarter, which could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position. See Note 11 Restructuring Costs and Other of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies for various legal matters. See Note 9 Legal Matters of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 . We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether any accruals should be made based on the status of the case, the results of the discovery process and other factors. If we ultimately determine that an accrual should be made for a legal matter, this accrual could have a material effect on our operating results and financial position and the ultimate outcome may be materially different than our estimate.