Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, endeavors, strives, may, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview A summary of our results is as follows, for further details see our Results of Operations on page 49 (in millions, except percentages and per-share amounts): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance Net sales $ 11,588 $ 10,866 6.6 % $ 34,371 $ 32,023 7.3 % Gross margin percentage 61.9 % 61.3 % 0.6 pts. 61.5 % 61.4 % 0.1 pts. Research and development $ 1,358 $ 1,430 (5.0 ) % $ 4,072 4,339 (6.2 ) % Sales and marketing $ 2,383 $ 2,446 (2.6 ) % $ 7,230 7,292 (0.9 ) % General and administrative $ 562 $ 466 20.6 % $ 1,611 1,376 17.1 % Total R&D, sales and marketing, general and administrative $ 4,303 $ 4,342 (0.9 ) % $ 12,913 13,007 (0.7 ) % Total as a percentage of revenue 37.1 % 40.0 % (2.9 ) pts. 37.6 % 40.6 % (3.0 ) pts. Amortization of purchased intangible assets $ 96 $ 103 (6.8 ) % $ 292 419 (30.3 ) % Restructuring and other charges $ 20 $ 31 (35.5 ) % $ 225 $ 31 625.8 % Operating margin percentage 23.7 % 20.1 % 3.6 pts. 22.4 % 19.4 % 3.0 pts. Income tax percentage 22.1 % 18.0 % 4.1 pts. 21.2 % 17.3 % 3.9 pts. Net income $ 2,165 $ 1,807 19.8 % $ 6,124 $ 5,258 16.5 % Net income as a percentage of revenue 18.7 % 16.6 % 2.1 pts. 17.8 % 16.4 % 1.4 pts. Earnings per sharediluted $ 0.40 $ 0.33 21.2 % $ 1.13 $ 0.94 20.2 % Three Months Ended April 28, 2012 Compared with Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 Net sales increased 7%, with net product sales increasing by 5% and service revenue increasing by 13%. Total gross margin increased by 0.6 percentage points reflecting the continued positive effect of lower overall manufacturing costs, including benefits from value engineering. Our gross margin also benefited in the current period relative to the comparable fiscal 2011 period from the absence of significant restructuring charges related to our consumer business. As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses collectively declined by 2.9 percentage points, and were down slightly in dollar terms due to the expense reductions we announced in fiscal 2011. Operating margin increased by 3.6 percentage points primarily as a result of our sales performance, improved gross margin, and expense management. Diluted earnings per share increased by 21% from the prior year period, primarily as a result of a 20% increase in net income and also, to a lesser degree, from a decline in our diluted share count. 40 Table of Contents We experienced another quarter of solid execution in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as demonstrated by the 7% growth in net sales and 21% increase in earnings per share compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Consistent with our goals, including growing profits faster than revenue, our third quarter of fiscal 2012 operating income, net income, and earnings per share each increased by a greater percentage than our net sales, as compared to the prior year period. Our results reflect revenue growth across each of our geographic segments and customer markets. In particular, our APJC segment performed well, with year-over-year revenue growth of 24%, reflecting strength in both product and service revenue. From a customer market standpoint, this growth was led by strong service provider revenue, partially due to the completion of several large, multiyear projects in the region. Most of our key areas experienced positive net sales growth on a year-over-year basis. Specifically, revenue grew in Switching, Services, Data Center, Service Provider Video, Wireless and Security. We believe this growth reflects the success we are experiencing with our technology architectures. Revenue was flat in both the NGN Routing and Collaboration product groups on a year over year basis. The flat sales of NGN Routing products reflected lower industrywide sales for routing products during the quarter and lower sales of our optical networking products. We believe the relative weakness for Collaboration is attributable to a number of factors, including market driven factors, pressure with regard to reduced spending from enterprise and public sector customers driven by the difficult macroeconomic environment, and our need to execute more effectively as we transition our sales strategy in this area. We experienced solid performance in terms of both product and service gross margin. We are continuing to see relative stability in our product gross margin in particular due to continued benefits from value engineering and other cost savings. From a geographic segment perspective, gross margin improvement in our APJC segment offset lower gross margins in the Americas and EMEA segments. In our APJC segment, gross margin increased on a year-over-year basis due to lower discounts, product mix, lower overall manufacturing costs and volume. The gross margin performance in the segment was also partially due to the completion of the aforementioned large, multiyear projects. From a company-wide perspective, our core product areas of Switching and NGN Routing on a combined basis reflected continued gross margin stability. We continue to monitor a variety of previously-disclosed business challenges, the negative impacts from a challenging global macroeconomic environment, including, specifically, continued challenges in the European economy, continued weakness in the public sector market, and conservative IT-related capital spending by our customers. While we achieved solid growth in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we are seeing a hesitant global IT spending environment. In particular, the challenges we outlined in the second quarter of fiscal 2012 related to conservative IT-related capital spending and developments in Europe continued to impact our business momentum during the third quarter of fiscal 2012. Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 Compared with Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 Net sales increased 7%, with net product sales increasing 6% and service revenue increasing 12%. Total gross margin increased by 0.1 percentage points primarily as a result of lower manufacturing costs, higher volume, lower restructuring charges, and lower amortization and impairment charges from purchased intangible assets, partially offset by higher sales discounts and unfavorable product pricing as well as product mix shifts. As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses collectively declined by 3.0 percentage points due to the expense reductions we announced in fiscal 2011. Operating margin increased by 3.0 percentage points primarily as a result of our sales performance, improved gross margin and expense management. Diluted earnings per share increased by 20% from the prior year period, a result of both a 16% increase in net income and due to a decline in our diluted share count of 178 million shares. Strategy and Focus Areas We announced a plan in May 2011, which we began implementing in fiscal 2011 and expect to complete in fiscal 2012, to realign our sales, service and engineering organizations in order to simplify our operating model and focus on our five foundational priorities: Leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services) which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions Collaboration Data center virtualization and cloud Video Architectures for business transformation We believe that focusing on these priorities will best position us to continue to expand our share of our customers information technology spending. 41 Table of Contents We are currently undergoing product transitions in our core business including the introduction of next-generation products with higher price performance and architectural advantages compared with both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth across these next-generation product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business conditions and, therefore, may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. However, we believe that these newly introduced products may continue to negatively impact product gross margins, which we are currently striving to address through various initiatives including value engineering, effective supply chain management, and delivering greater customer value through offers that include hardware, software, and services. We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions. Market transitions on which we are primarily focused include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, networked mobility technologies and the transition from Internet Protocol Version 4 to Internet Protocol Version 6. For example, a market in which a significant market transition is underway is the enterprise data center market, where a transition to virtualization/the cloud is rapidly evolving. There is a continued growing awareness that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows: Virtualization: refers to the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network. The cloud: refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software applications, are no longer tethered to a users physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user on demand as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously. This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions. The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing. Very large, well-financed, and aggressive competitors are each bringing their own new class of products to address this new market. We expect this competitive market trend to continue. With respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through open systems and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers. Other market transitions on which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the increased role of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads, appear to be evolving even more quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, as customers evolve their communications and business models. We are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers. We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in the past in addressing market opportunities in the communications and IT industry will be adaptable to other markets. An example of a market where we aim to apply this approach is mobility, where growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be delivered on such devices. Three Months Ended April 28, 2012 Compared with Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 Net Sales Net sales increased by 7%. Within the total sales growth, net product sales increased by 5% and service revenue increased by 13%. With regard to our geographic segment performance, on a year-over-year basis, net sales increased 3% in the Americas segment, 5% in our EMEA segment, and 24% in our APJC segment. Customer market net product sales performance reflected increases across all markets. The service provider customer market experienced the largest percentage increase followed by the commercial, enterprise, and public sector markets. 42 Table of Contents From a product perspective, we experienced a 5% increase in net product sales with specific increases in certain product categories as follows: 5% in Switching, 68% in Data Center, 12% in Service Provider Video, 20% in Wireless, and 9% in Security. In contrast, net product sales for NGN Routing and Collaboration were each flat year over year. The growth in Service revenues was experienced across both the technical support services category and advanced services category, with revenue increases of 10% and 23%, respectively. Gross Margin Our gross margin percentage increased by approximately 0.6 percentage points. Within this total gross margin change, product gross margin increased by 0.5 percentage points, while service gross margin increased by 0.5 percentage points. Our product gross margin benefited from the absence in the current period of significant restructuring charges related to our consumer business which occurred in the prior year period. After adjusting for this item, our individual product gross margins have reflected relative stability on a year-over-year basis. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses decreased by 1%. Research and development expenses decreased by 5%, sales and marketing expenses decreased by 3% and general and administrative expenses increased by approximately 21%. Operating expense as a percentage of revenue decreased by 3.1 percentage points, primarily as a result of our expense reduction efforts. Additionally, lower share-based compensation expense, and slightly lower restructuring charges and amortization of purchased intangibles assets contributed to the operating expense decline. Other Key Financial Measures The following is a summary of our other key financial measures for the third quarter of fiscal 2012: We generated cash flows from operations of $3.0 billion and $8.4 billion during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2012, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments, were $48.4 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2012, compared with $44.6 billion at the end of fiscal 2011. Our total deferred revenue at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was $12.6 billion, compared with $12.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2011. We repurchased approximately 27 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $20.28 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $550 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2012. As of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2012, the remaining authorized repurchase amount under the stock repurchase program was $7.7 billion with no termination date. We paid a cash dividend of $0.08 per share, or $432 million, and $0.20 per share, or $1.1 billion, for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2012, respectively. Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO) at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was 31 days, compared with 38 days at the end of fiscal 2011. Our inventory balance was $1.5 billion at the end of each the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and the end of fiscal 2011. Annualized inventory turns were 11.5 in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and were 11.8 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 30, 2011, as updated as applicable in Note 2 herein, describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria have been met: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists. Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Delivery has occurred. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery. The fee is fixed or determinable. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. Collectibility is reasonably assured. We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. 43 Table of Contents In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include services, the multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine the unit of accounting, and the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the relative selling price. Revenue is recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for each unit of accounting are met. The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our valuation of the units of accounting for multiple deliverables. According to the accounting guidance prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition , we use vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) for each of those units, when available. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median selling price. VSOE exists across most of our product and service offerings. In certain limited circumstances when VSOE does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy to applicable multiple-deliverable arrangements. Under the selling price hierarchy, third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) will be considered if VSOE does not exist, and estimated selling price (ESP) will be used if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Generally, we are not able to determine TPE because our go-to-market strategy differs from that of others in our markets, and the extent of customization varies among comparable products or services from our peers. In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company-specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting. Some of our sales arrangements have multiple deliverables containing software and related software support components. Such sale arrangements are subject to the accounting guidance in ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition. As our business and offerings evolve over time, our pricing practices may be required to be modified accordingly, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and ESP in subsequent periods. There were no material impacts during the quarter nor do we currently expect a material impact in the next twelve months on our revenue recognition due to any changes in our VSOE, TPE, or ESP. Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements, service, support, and other factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our deferred revenue for products was $3.9 billion and $3.7 billion as of April 28, 2012 and July 30, 2011, respectively. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which typically is from one to three years. Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. Our deferred revenue for Service was $8.8 billion as of April 28, 2012 and $8.5 billion as of July 30, 2011. We make sales to distributors and retail partners and generally recognize revenue based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. If actual credits received by our distributors and retail partners under these programs were to deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected. Allowances for Receivables and Sales Returns The allowances for receivables were as follows (in millions, except percentages): April 28, 2012 July 30, 2011 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 216 $ 204 Percentage of gross accounts receivable 5.1 % 4.2 % Allowance for credit losslease receivables $ 252 $ 237 Percentage of gross lease receivables 7.4 % 7.6 % Allowance for credit lossloan receivables $ 118 $ 103 Percentage of gross loan receivables 6.5 % 7.0 % The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of these allowances by considering internal factors such as historical experience, credit quality and age of the receivable balances as well as external factors such as economic conditions that may affect a customers ability to pay and expected default frequency rates, which are published by major third-party credit-rating agencies and are generally updated on a quarterly basis. 44 Table of Contents We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances for doubtful accounts. If a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates, if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other circumstances arise, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue. As discussed in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, effective at the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal 2012 we refined our methodology for determining the portion of our allowance for credit loss which is evaluated on a collective basis. The refinement consists of more systematically giving effect to economic conditions, concentration of risk and correlation. We also began to use expected default frequency rates published by a major third-party credit-rating agency as well as our own historical loss rate in the event of default. Determination of expected default frequency rates and loss factors associated with internal credit risk ratings as well as assessing economic conditions, concentration of risk and correlation are complex and subjective. Our ongoing consideration of all these factors could result in an increase in our allowance for credit loss in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. Both accounts receivable and financing receivables are charged off at the point when they are considered uncollectible. A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of April 28, 2012 and July 30, 2011 was $121 million and $106 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable. If the actual future returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected. Inventory Valuation and Liability for Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers Our inventory balance was $1.5 billion as of both April 28, 2012 and July 30, 2011. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of April 28, 2012, the liability for these purchase commitments was $173 million as compared with $168 million as of July 30, 2011, and was included in other current liabilities. 45 Table of Contents Our provision for inventory was $91 million and $174 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our provision for inventory for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 decreased due to charges we recorded in connection with the restructuring of our consumer business during fiscal 2011. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $103 million and $58 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers increased due to higher provisions related to certain component supplies that we secured for our extended needs and due to higher contract manufacturer excess and obsolescence charges. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, and accordingly gross margin could be adversely affected. We regularly evaluate our exposure for inventory write-downs and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence, particularly in light of current macroeconomic uncertainties and conditions and the resulting potential for changes in future demand forecast. Warranty Costs The liability for product warranties, included in other current liabilities, was $390 million as of April 28, 2012, compared with $342 million as of July 30, 2011. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overhead. Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities. The provision for product warranties issued during the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and 2011 was $474 million and $330 million, respectively. The increase in the provision was primarily due to increased shipment volume of products with higher warranty costs and longer warranty lives, and also due to a warranty charge related to a specific product. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our gross margin could be adversely affected. Share-Based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense is presented as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance Share-based compensation expense $ 1,032 $ 1,237 $ (205 ) Prior to the initial declaration of a quarterly cash dividend on March 17, 2011, the fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units was measured based on an expected dividend yield of 0% as we did not historically pay cash dividends on our common stock. For awards granted on or subsequent to March 17, 2011, we used an annualized dividend yield based on the per share dividends declared by our Board of Directors. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The determination of the fair value of employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. For employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights, these variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, the risk-free interest rate, and expected dividends as of the grant date. For employee stock options, we used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, we used the implied volatility for traded options (with lives corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on our stock. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The valuation of employee stock options is also impacted by kurtosis and skewness, which are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns and the actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Because share-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. 46 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $42.0 billion as of April 28, 2012 as compared with $36.9 billion as of July 30, 2011. Our fixed income investment portfolio, as of April 28, 2012, consisted primarily of high quality investment-grade securities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As described more fully in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, a valuation hierarchy is based on the level of independent, objective evidence available regarding the value of the investments. It encompasses three classes of investments: Level 1 consists of securities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical securities; Level 2 consists of securities for which observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs are used, such as quoted prices for similar securities in active markets or quoted prices for identical securities in less active markets and model-derived valuations for which the variables are derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data; and Level 3 consists of securities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value. Our Level 2 securities are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from independent pricing vendors, quoted market prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate fair value of our assets and liabilities. We use such pricing data as the primary input, to which we have not made any material adjustments during fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, to make our assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of our investment portfolio. We are ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates. The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information, and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to its estimate of fair value. The assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio, and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and assumptions affected by levels of subjectivity and judgment was material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of April 28, 2012. We had no Level 3 assets in our investment portfolio as of April 28, 2012. Other-Than-Temporary Impairments We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described in the prior sentence, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit loss, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information, including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral. For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. There were no material impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity securities in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2011. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of April 28, 2012, our investments in privately held companies were $841 million, as compared to $796 million as of July 30, 2011, and were included in other assets. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment and will make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $17 million and $6 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 47 Table of Contents Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Asset Impairments Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. The assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets. The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of April 28, 2012 and July 30, 2011 was $17.0 billion and $16.8 billion, respectively. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and 2011. We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. We had no impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets during the first nine months of fiscal 2012. Such impairment charges were $164 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2011. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, research and development (R&D) tax credits, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, international realignments, and transfer pricing adjustments. Our effective tax rate was 22.1% and 18.0% in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. Our effective tax rate was 21.2% and 17.3% for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R&D cost-sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 48 Table of Contents Loss Contingencies We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Results of Operations Net Sales The following table presents the breakdown of net sales between product and service revenue (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: Product $ 9,106 $ 8,669 $ 437 5.0 % $ 27,176 $ 25,605 $ 1,571 6.1 % Service 2,482 2,197 285 13.0 % 7,195 6,418 777 12.1 % Total $ 11,588 $ 10,866 $ 722 6.6 % $ 34,371 $ 32,023 $ 2,348 7.3 % Our net sales, which include product and service revenue for each geographic segment, are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: Americas $ 6,466 $ 6,265 $ 201 3.2 % $ 19,606 $ 18,592 $ 1,014 5.5 % Percentage of net sales 55.8 % 57.7 % 57.0 % 58.1 % EMEA 3,160 3,020 140 4.6 % 9,255 8,650 605 7.0 % Percentage of net sales 27.3 % 27.8 % 27.0 % 27.0 % APJC 1,962 1,581 381 24.1 % 5,510 4,781 729 15.2 % Percentage of net sales 16.9 % 14.5 % 16.0 % 14.9 % Total $ 11,588 $ 10,866 $ 722 6.6 % $ 34,371 $ 32,023 $ 2,348 7.3 % For the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, net sales increased by 7%. Our net product sales and service revenue totals each reflected strong sales growth across all of our geographic segments, particularly with our APJC segment which experienced 24% sales growth due in part due to revenue growth in advanced services. 49 Table of Contents For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011, net sales increased by 7%, with sales increases experienced across our three geographic segments. Within the total sales growth, net product sales increased by 6% while service revenue increased by 12%. We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on sales has not been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our sales to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our sales are influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations. In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, including a reduced IT-related capital spending environment and budget-driven reductions in spending by government entities, net sales by segment in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple-element arrangements; the mix of financing arrangements provided to our channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition, which in turn would impact the net sales of the relevant segment. As has been the case in certain of our emerging countries from time to time, customers require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support and this may occur in future periods, which may also impact the timing of the recognition of revenue. Net Product Sales by Segment The following table presents the breakdown of net product sales by segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: Americas $ 4,889 $ 4,829 $ 60 1.2 % $ 14,919 $ 14,355 $ 564 3.9 % Percentage of net product sales 53.7 % 55.7 % 54.9 % 56.0 % EMEA 2,639 2,543 96 3.8 % 7,758 7,319 439 6.0 % Percentage of net product sales 29.0 % 29.3 % 28.5 % 28.6 % APJC 1,578 1,297 281 21.7 % 4,499 3,931 568 14.4 % Percentage of net product sales 17.3 % 15.0 % 16.6 % 15.4 % Total $ 9,106 $ 8,669 $ 437 5.0 % $ 27,176 $ 25,605 $ 1,571 6.1 % 50 Table of Contents Americas Net product sales in the Americas segment for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 increased by 1% compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011. We experienced net product sales increases in our commercial and service provider markets, while our enterprise and public sector markets experienced net product sales declines. Our net product sales to the U.S. public sector market were relatively flat, with net product sales increases to state and local governments being offset by a decline in sales to the U.S. federal government. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by 7% in Canada, 12% in Brazil, and 12% in Mexico, while net product sales in the United States were flat. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2011, net product sales in the Americas segment increased by 4%. The increase in net product sales was across most of our customer markets in the Americas segment, led by growth in the service provider, enterprise, and commercial markets. We experienced a net product sales decline in the public sector market during the nine month period. This decline in the public sector market was driven primarily by lower net product sales to the U.S. public sector, resulting primarily from lower net product sales to the U.S. federal government, which were partially offset by higher net product sales to state and local government for the nine month period. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by 2% in the United States, 12% in Canada, 21% in Brazil, and 28% in Mexico. EMEA Net product sales in the EMEA segment for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 increased by 4% compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011. The increase in net product sales was across most of our customer markets in the EMEA segment, with growth in the commercial, public sector, and enterprise markets. Sales to the service provider market declined for the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared to the corresponding prior year period. We experienced net product sales growth in the emerging countries in EMEA, led by strong growth of 14% in Russia. Additionally, from a country perspective, net product sales increased by 12% in the United Kingdom and 2% in the Netherlands. The revenue growth in the United Kingdom was due, in large part, to increased sales to our service provider customers. Partially offsetting these country-specific sales increases, were net product sales decreases of 4% in France, 3% in Germany, 15% in Italy, and 24% in Spain. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2011, net product sales in the EMEA segment increased by 6%. The increase in net product sales was across all of our customer markets in the EMEA segment, led by strong growth in the commercial, enterprise and public sector markets, and to a lesser degree, in the service provider market. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by 18% in the United Kingdom, 4% in France, 1% in Germany, 18% in Russia, and 10% in the Netherlands. These increases were partially offset by net product sales decreases of 22% in Spain and 13% in Italy. APJC Net product sales in the APJC segment for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 increased by 22% compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011. We experienced net product sales growth across each of our customer markets in the APJC segment. These increases were led by strong net product sales growth in the service provider, enterprise, and commercial customer markets. To a lesser degree, the public sector market also experienced net product sales growth. From a country perspective, net product sales were strong across our major countries in the region with increases of 40% in Japan and 29% in China. The strong growth in Japan and China on a year-over-year basis was largely attributable to higher net product sales to our service provider customers. Net product sales increased 20% in India, although we continue to experience challenges in our business momentum in the public sector customer market in this country. Net product sales increased 10% in Australia. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2011, net product sales in the APJC segment increased by 14%. The increase was led by strong net product sales growth in the service provider market, and to a lesser degree, in the commercial and enterprise markets. We experienced a net product sales decline in our public sector market. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by 35% in Japan, 21% in China, and 3% in Australia. We experienced a year-over-year net product sales decline of 6% in India, due primarily to ongoing business momentum challenges in the public sector customer market. Net Product Sales by Groups of Similar Products In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to groups of similar products and customer markets for various purposes. Our product categories consist of the following categories (with subcategories in parentheses): Switching (fixed switching, modular switching, and storage); NGN Routing (high-end routers, mid-range and low-end routers, optical); Collaboration (unified communications and Cisco TelePresence); Service Provider Video (cable and cable modem, video systems); Wireless; Security; Data Center; and Other Products. The Other Products category consists primarily of Linksys-related products, emerging technology products, and Application Network Services. 51 Table of Contents The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance In Dollars Variance in Percent April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: Switching $ 3,644 $ 3,480 $ 164 4.7 % $ 10,926 $ 10,510 $ 416 4.0 % Percentage of net product sales 40.0 % 40.1 % 40.2 % 41.0 % NGN Routing 2,143 2,150 (7 ) (0.3 )% 6,328 6,246 82 1.3 % Percentage of net product sales 23.5 % 24.8 % 23.3 % 24.4 % Collaboration 1,007 1,008 (1 ) (0.1 )% 3,147 2,937 210 7.2 % Percentage of net product sales 11.1 % 11.6 % 11.6 % 11.5 % Service Provider Video 1,002 898 104 11.6 % 2,896 2,501 395 15.8 % Percentage of net product sales 11.0 % 10.4 % 10.7 % 9.8 % Wireless 425 353 72 20.4 % 1,205 1,022 183 17.9 % Percentage of net product sales 4.7 % 4.1 % 4.4 % 4.0 % Security 345 316 29 9.2 % 999 876 123 14.0 % Percentage of net product sales 3.8 % 3.6 % 3.7 % 3.4 % Data Center 291 173 118 68.2 % 883 475 408 85.9 % Percentage of net product sales 3.2 % 2.0 % 3.2 % 1.9 % Other 249 291 (42 ) (14.4 )% 792 1,038 (246 ) (23.7 )% Percentage of net product sales 2.7 % 3.4 % 2.9 % 4.0 % Total $ 9,106 $ 8,669 $ 437 5.0 % $ 27,176 $ 25,605 $ 1,571 6.1 % Switching Our Switching product category consists of switching and storage products. Net product sales in our Switching product category increased by 5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, which was primarily due to accelerating growth with transitioning products in the portfolio and data center deployments. Growth in Switching was reflected by sales increases across all customer markets. Within our Switching product category, sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches increased 9%, or $176 million, while sales of modular switches decreased 1%, or $12 million. The increase in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to increased sales of Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series Switches, Cisco Nexus 2000, and Cisco Nexus 5000 Series Switches, partially offset by decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 3750 Series Switches and Cisco Catalyst 3560 Series Switches. The decrease in sales of modular switches was primarily due to decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switches and Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Switches, partially offset by increased sales of Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches. Net product sales in our storage product category were flat. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011, net product sales in our Switching product category increased by 4%. The increase was primarily due to growth from transitioning products taking place in our Switching product portfolio. The impact of competitive pressures moderated growth, primarily in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Within our Switching product category, higher sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches and storage products were partially offset by lower sales of modular switches. Sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches increased 14%, or $761 million, while sales of modular switches decreased 8%, or approximately $370 million. The increase in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to increased sales of Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series Switches, Cisco Nexus 2000 and 5000 Series Switches, and the Cisco Catalyst 3750 Series Switches, partially offset by decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 3560 Series Switches. Net product sales in our Switching product category were positively impacted by a 6% increase in sales of storage products, primarily stemming from strong growth in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Sales of modular switches decreased primarily due to lower sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switches and Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Switches, partially offset by increased sales of Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches. 52 Table of Contents NGN Routing Our NGN Routing product category consists of routing and optical networking products. We categorize our routers primarily as high-end and mid range/low-end routers. The flat performance of our NGN Routing product category in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was a result of a 2%, or $29 million increase in sales of high-end router products; flat sales of our midrange and low-end router products category; and an approximately 17% or $35 million decline in sales of other NGN Routing products. Within the high-end router products category, the increase was driven by higher sales of Cisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASR) 9000, Cisco ASR 1000 products along with higher sales of Cisco CRS-3 Carrier Routing System products. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Cisco 12000 Series Routers, Cisco 7600 Series Routers and lower sales of the Cisco ASR 5000 family of products. Within the midrange and low-end router products category, higher sales of Cisco Integrated Services Routers (ISR) 1900, Cisco ISR 2900 and Cisco ISR 3900 router products were offset by sales declines in certain of our older generation ISR products. The decrease in sales of other NGN Routing products, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, was driven by lower sales of optical networking products. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011, net product sales in our NGN Routing product category increased 1%. The increase in sales of our NGN Routing product category was driven by a 6%, or $196 million, increase in sales in high-end router products, partially offset by a 4%, or $82 million, decline in sales of our midrange and low-end router products. Within the high-end router products category, the increase was driven by higher sales of Cisco CRS-3 Carrier Routing System products and higher sales of the Cisco ASR 1000, Cisco ASR 9000 products and Cisco ASR 5000 family of products. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Cisco 12000 Series Routers and Cisco 7600 Series Routers. Within the midrange and low-end router products category, the decrease was related to the product transition taking place within our ISR products as the sales decline in our older generation products had a greater impact than the growth experienced with our ISR 1900, Cisco ISR 2900 and Cisco ISR 3900 router products in this category. Sales of other NGN Routing products decreased by 6%, compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011, primarily due to increased sales of optical networking products. Collaboration In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, sales of Collaboration products were flat. Increased sales of IP phones within our unified communications products were offset by sales declines across other products in the unified communications portfolio. Sales of Cisco TelePresence systems were also flat for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011. We believe the relative weakness for Collaboration is attributable to a number of factors, including market driven factors, pressure with regard to reduced spending from enterprise and public sector customers driven by the difficult macroeconomic environment, and our need to execute more effectively as we transition our sales strategy in this area. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011, sales of Collaboration products increased by 7%, or $210 million. The increase was due to a 6% increase in sales of unified communications products, primarily IP phones and collaborative web-based offerings, along with a 9% increase in sales of Cisco TelePresence systems. Service Provider Video In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, sales of Service Provider Video products increased by 12%, or $104 million, due to growth within our service provider customer market of sales of settop boxes worldwide. Sales of video systems and other products increased by 16%, or $100 million, while sales of cable and cable modem products increased by 2%, or $4 million. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011, sales of Service Provider Video products increased by 16%, or $395 million due to growth in our service provider customer market from increased sales of settop boxes worldwide. Sales of video systems and other products increased by 16%, or $287 million, while sales of cable and cable modem products increased by 16%, or $108 million. Wireless In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, sales of Wireless products increased by 20%, or $72 million. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011, sales of Wireless products increased by 18%, or $183 million. These increases reflect the continued customer adoption of and migration to the Cisco Unified Wireless Network architecture and new product performance. Security In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, sales of Security products increased by 9%, or $29 million. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011, sales of Security products increased by 14%, or $123 million. These increases were primarily due to growth in our network security products driven by the recent refresh of our firewall security product portfolio. 53 Table of Contents Data Center In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, sales of Data Center products increased by 68%, or $118 million, due primarily to sales growth of Cisco Unified Computing System products. During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, our data center revenue growth rate was impacted in part due to the introduction of a new server chip technology platform that is currently undergoing customer evaluations. To the extent our data center business grows and further penetrates the market, we expect that, in comparison to what we experienced during the initial rapid growth of this business, the growth rates for our data center product sales will experience more normal seasonality consistent with the overall server market. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011, sales of Data Center products increased by 86%, or $408 million, due to strong growth from Cisco Unified Computing System products. Other Products The decrease in sales of Other Products during the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the corresponding periods in the prior fiscal year, was primarily due to lower sales of Pure Digital products in connection with our decision in fiscal 2011 to exit this consumer product line. Service Revenue For the third quarter of fiscal 2012 as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, the increase in total Service revenue was comprised of growth across both technical support services, which had revenue growth of 10%, and advanced services, which had revenue growth of 23%, due to strong growth in subscription and transaction services. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012 as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011, the increase in total Service revenue consisted of increases in both technical support services, which had revenue growth of 10%, and advanced services, which had revenue growth of 19%. The following table presents the breakdown of net product sales by segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net service sales: Americas $ 1,577 $ 1,436 $ 141 9.8 % $ 4,687 $ 4,237 $ 450 10.6 % Percentage of net service sales 63.5 % 65.4 % 65.1 % 66.0 % EMEA 521 477 44 9.2 % 1,497 1,331 166 12.5 % Percentage of net service sales 21.0 % 21.7 % 20.8 % 20.7 % APJC 384 284 100 35.2 % 1,011 850 161 18.9 % Percentage of net service sales 15.5 % 12.9 % 14.1 % 13.3 % Total $ 2,482 $ 2,197 $ 285 13.0 % $ 7,195 $ 6,418 $ 777 12.1 % Service revenue increased across all of our geographic segments in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, with APJC in particular experiencing strong revenue growth. Technical support services had solid revenue growth across all of our geographic segments, while advanced services had particularly strong revenue growth in APJC along with solid revenue growth in the Americas and EMEA segments. The APJC revenue growth in advanced services was a blend of subscription growth and transaction growth, which was in part the result of the completion of several large, multiyear projects in this region. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011, Service revenue experienced double-digit percentage revenue growth across all of our geographic segments. Technical support services revenue grew across all of our geographic segments. Advanced services revenue also grew across all geographic segments, with particularly strong growth in APJC, which was driven by the strong performance of advanced services for the third quarter of fiscal 2012. 54 Table of Contents Gross Margin The following table presents the gross margin for product and service (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended Amount Percentage Amount Percentage April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Gross margin: Product $ 5,543 $ 5,232 60.9 % 60.4 % $ 16,400 $ 15,537 60.3 % 60.7 % Service 1,626 1,427 65.5 % 65.0 % 4,724 4,138 65.7 % 64.5 % Total $ 7,169 $ 6,659 61.9 % 61.3 % $ 21,124 $ 19,675 61.5 % 61.4 % Product Gross Margin The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the decrease in product gross margin for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2012 as compared with the corresponding prior year periods: Product Gross Margin Percentage Three Months Nine Months Ended Ended Fiscal 2011 60.4 % 60.7 % Restructuring and other charges 1.5 % 0.6 % Overall manufacturing costs 1.3 % 1.7 % Shipment volume, net of certain variable costs 0.6 % 0.6 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets and other 0.1 % 0.4 % Sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing (2.5 )% (2.7 )% Mix of products sold (0.5 )% (1.0 )% Fiscal 2012 60.9 % 60.3 % Three Months Ended April 28, 2012 Compared with Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 Product gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 increased by 0.5 percentage points compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Our product gross margin benefited from the absence in the current period of significant restructuring charges related to our consumer business in the prior year period. After adjusting for this item, our product gross margins have reflected relative stability on a year-over-year basis. This relative stability was attributable to lower overall manufacturing costs, including the benefits from our value engineering investments, particularly as related to certain of our Switching products. Higher shipment volume in the current period also contributed to the increase in product gross margin. These increases to product gross margin were partially offset by higher sales discounts, rebates, and unfavorable product pricing, which were driven by normal market factors and by the geographic mix of net product sales. Additionally, our product gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 continued to be negatively impacted by the shift in the mix of products sold, primarily as a result of sales increases for our lower margin Cisco Unified Computing System and Service Provider Video products, as well as sales increases of lower margin products within certain other product families. These mix impacts were partially offset by lower sales of consumer products during the third quarter of fiscal 2012. 55 Table of Contents Our future gross margins could be impacted by our product mix and by further growth in sales of products that have lower gross margins, such as Cisco Unified Computing System products. Our gross margins may also be impacted by the geographic mix of our sales or by increased sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing, which may be attributable to competitive factors. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. If any of the preceding factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods, our product and service gross margins could decline. Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 Compared with Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 Product gross margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 decreased by 0.4 percentage points compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates, and unfavorable product pricing, which were driven by normal market factors and by the geographic mix of net product sales. These factors impacted most of our customer markets and all of our geographic segments. Additionally, our product gross margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 was negatively impacted by the shift in the mix of products sold, primarily as a result of sales increases from our lower margin Cisco Unified Computing System products and Service Provider Video products. These negative factors were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs, higher shipment volume, and the absence of impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets, lower restructuring expense, and lower amortization expense in the first nine months of fiscal 2012. The lower overall manufacturing costs were in part due to increased benefits from our value engineering efforts, particularly in certain of our Switching products; favorable component pricing; and continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations. Service Gross Margin Our service gross margin percentage increased by 0.5 percentage points for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and 1.2 percentage points for the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the corresponding periods in the prior year. These increases were primarily due to higher sales volume for both technical support services and advanced services. The benefits to gross margin of volume increases for both periods were partially offset by increased cost impacts and mix. The mix impacts were due to lower gross margin advanced services having represented a higher proportion of service revenue for the fiscal 2012 periods, in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods. For the third quarter of fiscal 2012, gross margin in technical support services was flat as a result of increased sales volume being offset by increased headcount-related costs. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, gross margin in technical support services increased as a result of increased sales volume and lower supply chain costs, partially offset by higher headcount-related costs. For the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared to the corresponding prior year periods, gross margin in advanced services increased primarily due to strong sales volume growth, partially offset by higher delivery team costs which were, in part headcount related, and higher partner delivery costs. The gross margin performance in advanced services also benefited from the completion of several large multiyear projects in our APJC segment. For the third quarter of fiscal 2012, gross margin in advanced services particularly benefited from increased volume. Our revenue from advanced services may increase to a higher proportion of total service revenue due to our continued focus on providing comprehensive support to our customers networking devices, applications, and infrastructures. Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract initiations in our renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and the resources we deploy to support the overall service business. Other factors include the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services. Gross Margin by Segment The following table presents the total gross margin for each segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended Amount Percentage Amount Percentage April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Gross margin: Americas $ 4,053 $ 3,988 62.7 % 63.7 % $ 12,319 $ 11,759 62.8 % 63.2 % EMEA 2,019 1,966 63.9 % 65.1 % 5,868 5,589 63.4 % 64.6 % APJC 1,242 987 63.3 % 62.4 % 3,342 2,996 60.7 % 62.7 % Segment Total 7,314 6,941 63.1 % 63.9 % 21,529 20,344 62.6 % 63.5 % Unallocated corporate items (1) (145 ) (282 ) (405 ) (669 ) Total $ 7,169 $ 6,659 61.9 % 61.3 % $ 21,124 $ 19,675 61.5 % 61.4 % (1) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and share-based compensation expense, and also significant asset impairments and restructurings. We do not allocate these items to gross margin for each segment because management does not include the information in measuring the performance of the operating segments. The decrease in the current period amounts are primarily due to the absence in the current period of restructuring and acquisition-related intangible asset impairments that were recognized in the prior year periods. 56 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 28, 2012 Compared with Three Months Ended April 30, 2011 In the Americas segment, the gross margin percentage decrease was due to higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing in this segment along with higher overall manufacturing and delivery costs. These decreases were partially offset by higher volume and to a lesser degree favorable mix impacts. The favorable volume impacts were driven by increased Data Center and Service Provider Video revenues. Additionally, a significant decrease in lower margin revenue from our consumer products resulted in a slightly positive mix impact to the gross margin for the Americas segment in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. The gross margin percentage decrease in our EMEA segment was primarily the result of higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing, along with mix impacts due primarily to increased revenue related to lower margin Service Provider Video products. These increases were partially offset by higher volume and lower overall manufacturing and delivery costs. The APJC segment experienced a gross margin percentage increase due primarily to strong volume growth, particularly in our Service Provider Video and NGN Routing products. The gross margin in APJC also benefited from lower overall manufacturing and delivery costs. These increases in gross margin were partially offset by higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing in this segment, along with the mix impact resulting primarily from increased revenue from our lower margin Service Provider Video products. Higher service gross margins also added to the overall gross margin percentage increase in APJC. The gross margin performance in the segment was also favorably impacted due to the completion of the aforementioned large, multiyear projects. Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 Compared with Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 For the first nine months fiscal 2012, we experienced a gross margin percentage decline across all of our geographic segments as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011. The Americas segment experienced a slight gross margin percentage decline with the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing being mostly offset by higher volume, lower overall manufacturing and delivery costs, and favorable mix impacts. Significantly lower consumer sales resulted in a positive mix impact to the Americas segment gross margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2012. The gross margin percentage decline in our EMEA segment was primarily the result of unfavorable mix impacts; higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing; and lower service gross margin due to increased headcount-related costs. These decreases were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing and delivery costs and increased volume in this segment. The APJC segment experienced the largest gross margin percentage decline of all of our geographic segments due primarily to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing, and unfavorable mix impacts. These decreases were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing and delivery costs and increased shipment volume in this segment. The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions as well as our movement into new market opportunities, and could decline if any of the factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods. Factors That May Impact Net Sales and Gross Margin Net product sales may continue to be affected by factors, including global economic downturns and related market uncertainty, that have resulted in reduced or cautious IT-related capital spending in our enterprise, service provider, public sector, and commercial markets; changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition, including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix of our customers between service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer. Sales to the service provider market have been and may be in the future characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain products within our collaboration and data center product categories. In addition, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including network design services; and often have acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain of our customers in certain emerging countries also tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, especially in certain emerging countries, which in turn may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. 57 Table of Contents Net product sales may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market; price and product competition in the communications and information technology industry; introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products; adoption of new networking standards; and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers ability to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same quarter. For additional factors that may impact net product sales, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs. Increased sales to our distributors and retail partners generally result in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue for sales to our distributors and retail partners generally based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs. Product gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including periods of increased growth of some of our lower margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages; our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost structures, as a result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially those from China; changes in geographic mix of our product sales; the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs, including share-based compensation expense; excess inventory and obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing; effects of value engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and operating plans. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and advanced services; the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals; share-based compensation expense; and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business. Research and Development (R&D), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative (G&A) Expenses R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 1,358 $ 1,430 $ (72 ) (5.0 )% $ 4,072 $ 4,339 $ (267 ) (6.2 )% Percentage of net sales 11.7 % 13.2 % 11.8 % 13.5 % Sales and marketing 2,383 2,446 (63 ) (2.6 )% 7,230 7,292 (62 ) (0.9 )% Percentage of net sales 20.6 % 22.5 % 21.0 % 22.8 % General and administrative 562 466 96 20.6 % 1,611 1,376 235 17.1 % Percentage of net sales 4.8 % 4.3 % 4.7 % 4.3 % Total $ 4,303 $ 4,342 $ (39 ) (0.9 )% $ 12,913 $ 13,007 $ (94 ) (0.7 )% Percentage of net sales 37.1 % 40.0 % 37.6 % 40.6 % 58 Table of Contents The year-over-year changes within operating expenses, including the effects of foreign currency exchange rates, net of hedging, are summarized by line item as follows: R&D Expenses The decrease in R&D expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2011, was primarily due to lower headcount-related expense and lower share-based compensation expense. Additionally, for the first nine months of fiscal 2012, R&D expenses declined due to lower acquisition-related expense which relates to the absence in the current period of certain compensation payments that were paid in the corresponding prior year period. We continue to invest in R&D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, or we may partner with or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R&D. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, due to a decrease of $39 million in marketing expenses and a $24 million decrease in sales expenses. The decrease in marketing expenses for the period was due to lower advertisement expenses, lower headcount-related expenses, and lower share-based compensation expense. The decrease in sales expenses was due primarily to lower headcount-related expenses and lower share-based compensation expense. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011, sales and marketing expenses decreased by $62 million. Marketing expenses decreased by $155 million, which were partially offset by an increase of $93 million in sales expenses. The decrease in marketing expenses for the period was due to lower advertisement expenses, lower headcount-related expense, and lower share-based compensation expense. The increase in sales expenses was due primarily to higher overall discretionary spending and higher headcount-related expense partially offset by lower share-based compensation expense. G&A Expenses G&A expenses increased in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2011, due to increased corporate-level expenses, which tend to vary from period to period. The corporate-level expenses include increases related to our operational infrastructure such as real estate; IT project implementations, which include further investments in our global data center infrastructure; and investments related to operational and financial systems. Partially offsetting these increases were lower share-based compensation expense, lower acquisition-related expenses, and the net impact of certain tax audit settlements. Effect of Foreign Currency In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased the combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by $7 million, or approximately 0.2%, compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011. In the first nine months of fiscal 2012, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased the combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by $126 million, or approximately 1%, compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011. Headcount Our headcount increased by approximately 1,353 employees in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and decreased by approximately 6,602 employees in the first nine months of fiscal 2012. The increase in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was due to growth in services employees and strategic engineering hires, partially offset by headcount reductions from attrition and our restructuring actions. The decrease for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 was attributable to headcount reductions from the sale of our Juarez, Mexico manufacturing operations and from our restructuring actions. 59 Table of Contents Share-Based Compensation Expense The following table presents share-based compensation expense (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Cost of salesproduct $ 12 $ 16 $ 39 $ 47 Cost of salesservice 39 44 116 135 Share-based compensation expense in cost of sales 51 60 155 182 Research and development 97 120 297 373 Sales and marketing 138 160 429 491 General and administrative 51 60 153 191 Restructuring and other charges (2 ) Share-based compensation expense in operating expenses 286 340 877 1,055 Total share-based compensation expense $ 337 $ 400 $ 1,032 $ 1,237 The year-over-year decrease in share-based compensation expense for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared to the corresponding prior year periods, was due primarily to a decrease in the aggregate value of share-based awards in recent periods, the timing of the annual grants to employees in fiscal 2012, and the impact of our restructuring actions. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses $ 96 $ 103 $ 292 $ 419 The decrease in amortization of purchased intangible assets for the third quarter of fiscal 2012, compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2011, was due to certain purchased intangible assets having become fully amortized in the current period. The decrease in amortization of purchased intangible assets for the first nine months of fiscal 2012, compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2011, was primarily due to the absence of impairment charges during fiscal 2012 and also due to certain purchased intangible assets having become fully amortized or impaired in fiscal 2011. The amortization of purchased intangible assets for the nine months ended April 30, 2011 included impairment charges of approximately $92 million. These impairment charges were primarily associated with certain of our consumer products. For additional information regarding purchased intangible assets, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at the acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle, as deemed appropriate given the attendant circumstances. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets. Restructuring and Other Charges In the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2012, we incurred within operating expenses restructuring charges of $20 million and $225 million, respectively. In the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and for the first nine months of fiscal 2011, we incurred restructuring and other charges of approximately $151 million, of which $31 million was recorded to operating expenses with the remainder recorded to cost of sales. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 60 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income, Net Interest Income and Interest Expense The following table summarizes interest income and interest expense (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 April 28, 2012 April 30, 2011 Interest income $ 161 $ 161 $ 483 $ 477 Interest expense (151 ) (153 ) (449 ) (480 ) Total $ 10 $ 8 $ 34 $ (3 ) Interest income was flat in the third quarter and increased slightly for the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the corresponding prior year periods. For both periods, interest income from financing receivables increased but was offset by the effect of lower average interest rates on our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents, and fixed income investments. The decrease in interest expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the corresponding prior year period, was attributable to favorable hedging impacts. The decrease in interest expense in the first nine months of fiscal 2012, as compared with the corresponding prior year period, was attributable to the effect of lower average interest rates on our debt and favorable hedging impacts. Other Income, Net The components of other income, net, are summarized as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 28, April 30, April 28, April 30, 2012 2011 2012 2011 Net gains on investments in publicly traded equity securities $ 15 $ 42 $ 30 $ 72 Net gains on investments in fixed income securities 15 7 46 84 Total net gains on available-for-sale investments 30 49 76 156 Net (losses) gains on investments in privately held companies (3 ) (18 ) (38 ) 29 Net gains on investments 27 31 38 185 Other (losses) and gains, net (8 ) (19 ) 7 (42 ) Other income, net $ 19 $ 12 $ 45 $ 143 The change in total net gains on available-for-sale investments in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2011 was primarily attributable to lower gains on publicly traded equity securities in the current period as a result of market conditions, as well as the timing of sales of these securities. The change in total net gains on available-for-sale investments in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2011 was attributable to lower gains on fixed income and publicly traded equity securities in the current period as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities. The lower net losses on investments in privately held companies for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 as compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2011 was primarily due to higher equity method gains in the current period. For the first nine months of fiscal 2012 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2011, the change in net (losses) gains on investments in privately held companies was primarily due to higher equity method losses related to our proportional share of losses related to our VCE joint venture. The change in other (losses) and gains, net for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2012 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2011 was primarily due to more favorable foreign exchange amounts in the fiscal 2012 periods, partially offset by lower gains from customer lease terminations in the fiscal 2012 periods as compared with the corresponding prior year periods. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 22.1% for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with 18.0% for the third quarter of fiscal 2011. The net 4.1 percentage point increase in the effective tax rate between fiscal years was primarily attributable to a decrease in foreign income taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35%. 61 Table of Contents The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 21.2% for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 compared with 17.3% for the first nine months of fiscal 2011. Approximately 1.0 percentage points of the increase in the effective tax rate between fiscal years was attributable to the fiscal 2011 retroactive reinstatement of the U.S. federal R&D tax credit, which expired on December 31, 2011. The remaining 2.9 percentage point increase in the effective tax rate between fiscal years was primarily attributable to a decrease in foreign income taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35%. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates. Our provision for income taxes does not include provisions for U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that we intend to reinvest indefinitely in our foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, as well as the impacts of our contractual obligations, commitments, and the stock repurchase program on our liquidity and capital resources. Balance Sheet and Cash Flows Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions): April 28, 2012 July 30, 2011 Increase (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,461 $ 7,662 $ (1,201 ) Fixed income securities 40,437 35,562 4,875 Publicly traded equity securities 1,514 1,361 153 Total $ 48,412 $ 44,585 $ 3,827 The increase in cash and cash equivalents and investments in the first nine months of fiscal 2012 was primarily the result of cash provided by operations of $8.4 billion. Partially offsetting this increase were the following: $1.8 billion for the repurchase of common stock (net of the issuance of common stock related to employee stock incentive plans), dividends paid of $1.1 billion, capital expenditures of $0.8 billion, and cash paid for acquisitions (net of cash and cash equivalents acquired) of approximately $0.3 billion. The increase in cash provided by operating activities of $1.1 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2012 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011 was primarily the result of increased net income, partially offset by restructuring payments in the first nine months of fiscal 2012. Our total in cash and cash equivalents and investments held by various foreign subsidiaries was $42.3 billion and $39.8 billion as of April 28, 2012 and July 30, 2011, respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and investments held by various foreign subsidiaries were to be distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes. The balance available in the United States as of April 28, 2012 and July 30, 2011 was $6.1 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our fixed income investment portfolio consisting primarily of high quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and dividends. We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, deferred revenue, excess tax benefits resulting from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this report. 62 Table of Contents Accounts Receivable, Net The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions) and DSO: April 28, 2012 July 30, 2011 Increase (Decrease) Accounts receivable, net $ 3,980 $ 4,698 $ (718 ) DSO 31 38 (7 ) Our accounts receivable net, as of April 28, 2012 decreased by approximately 15% compared with the end of fiscal 2011. Our DSO as of April 28, 2012 was lower by 7 days compared with the end of fiscal 2011. The decrease in DSO during the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was due to an improvement in product and service billings linearity during the quarter, particularly with respect to the timing of product shipments. Service billings have traditionally had the effect of increasing DSO due in part to the timing of billings, which in comparison to product billings have a larger proportion billed in the latter part of the quarter. Given various factors such as our business mix, linearity, and growth of our service business, going forward we expect DSO to be in the range of 30 to 40 days. Inventories and Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers The following table summarizes our inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns): April 28, 2012 July 30, 2011 Increase (Decrease) Inventories $ 1,497 $ 1,486 $ 11 Annualized inventory turns 11.5 11.8 (0.3 ) Purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers $ 4,369 $ 4,313 $ 56 Inventories as of April 28, 2012 increased by 1% from our balance at the end of fiscal 2011, and for the same period purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were up approximately 1%. On a combined basis, inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were also up 1% compared with the end of fiscal 2011. We believe our inventory and purchase commitments are in line with our current demand forecasts. Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished goods. Distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners as well as shipments to customers. Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and build-to-stock products. All inventories are accounted for at the lower of cost or market. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. During fiscal 2011, due to the earthquake in Japan and resulting industry-wide component supply constraints, we made increased commitments to secure our near-term supply needs. The increase in purchase commitments in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 was attributable to our effort to secure supply to meet forecasted demand. We are continuing to actively monitor and evaluate the flooding situation in Thailand which occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 . We have business continuity plans in place in order to minimize any potential impact to our supply chain as a result of the flooding in Thailand, which impacts we expect to continue for the next several quarters. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Our purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity. We record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. The purchase commitments for inventory are expected to be primarily fulfilled within one year. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels. 63 Table of Contents Financing Receivables and Guarantees We measure our net balance sheet exposure position related to our financing receivables and financing guarantees by reducing the total of gross financing receivables and financing guarantees by the associated allowances for credit loss and deferred revenue. As of April 28, 2012, our net balance sheet exposure position related to financing receivables and financing guarantees was as follows (in millions): April 28, 2012 FINANCING RECEIVABLES FINANCING GUARANTEES TOTAL Lease Receivables Loan Receivables Financed Service Contracts & Other Total Channel Partner End-User Customers Total Gross amount less unearned income $ 3,153 $ 1,827 $ 2,628 $ 7,608 $ 283 $ 258 $ 541 $ 8,149 Allowances for credit loss (252 ) (118 ) (11 ) (381 ) (381 ) Deferred revenue (81 ) (134 ) (1,888 ) (2,103 ) (209 ) (224 ) $ (433 ) (2,536 ) Net balance sheet exposure $ 2,820 $ 1,575 $ 729 $ 5,124 $ 74 $ 34 $ 108 $ 5,232 Financing Receivables Gross financing receivables less unearned income have increased by 9% compared with the end of fiscal 2011. The change was primarily due to a 24% increase in loan receivables and a 10% increase in lease receivables, while growth in gross financed service contracts and other was flat compared with the end of fiscal 2011. We provide financing to certain end-user customers and channel partners to enable sales of our products, service, and networking solutions. These financing arrangements include leases, financed service contracts, and loans. Arrangements related to leases are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables include sales-type and direct-financing leases. We also provide certain qualified customers financing for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services and advanced services. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. We expect to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term. Financing Guarantees In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are de-recognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and in some cases we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Historically, our payments under such arrangements have been immaterial. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed. Deferred Revenue Related to Financing Receivables and Guarantees The majority of the deferred revenue in the preceding table is related to financed service contracts. The majority of the revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred and included in deferred service revenue. The revenue related to financed service contracts is recognized ratably over period during which the related services are to be performed. A portion of the revenue related to lease and loan receivables is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue recognition criteria. 64 Table of Contents Borrowings Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions): April 28, July 30, 2012 2011 Senior notes: Floating-rate notes, due 2014 $ 1,250 $ 1,250 1.625% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 2,000 2,000 2.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 500 500 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2016 3,000 3,000 3.15% fixed-rate notes, due 2017 750 750 4.95% fixed-rate notes, due 2019 2,000 2,000 4.45% fixed-rate notes, due 2020 2,500 2,500 5.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2039 2,000 2,000 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2040 2,000 2,000 Total $ 16,000 $ 16,000 Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Interest is payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of April 28, 2012. Commercial Paper In fiscal 2011 we established a short-term debt financing program of up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper notes. As of April 28, 2012 we had no outstanding commercial paper outstanding under this program. As of July 30, 2011, we had commercial paper notes of $500 million outstanding under this program. Other Notes and Borrowings Other notes and borrowings include notes and credit facilities with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain of our foreign subsidiaries. The amount of borrowings outstanding under these arrangements was $83 million and $88 million as of April 28, 2012 and July 30, 2011, respectively. Credit Facility On February 17, 2012, we entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on February 17, 2017. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50%, Bank of Americas prime rate as announced from time to time or one-month LIBOR plus 1.00%, or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard & Poors Financial Services, LLC and Moodys Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. As of April 28, 2012, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants of, and we had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. We may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $2.0 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to February 17, 2019. This credit facility replaces our prior credit facility that was entered into on August 17, 2007, which was terminated in connection with our entering into the new credit facility. 65 Table of Contents Deferred Revenue The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions): April 28, July 30, Increase 2012 2011 (Decrease) Service $ 8,778 $ 8,521 $ 257 Product 3,870 3,686 184 Total $ 12,648 $ 12,207 $ 441 Reported as: Current $ 8,568 $ 8,025 $ 543 Noncurrent 4,080 4,182 (102 ) Total $ 12,648 $ 12,207 $ 441 The increase in deferred service revenue reflects increased new contract initiations during the first nine months of fiscal 2012, partially offset by the ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue in the first nine months of fiscal 2012. The increase in deferred product revenue was primarily related to increased two-tier deferred revenue, which in turn was due to improved shipment linearity to two-tier partners during the third quarter of fiscal 2012. This increase was partially offset by decreased deferred revenue related to our financing arrangements. Contractual Obligations Operating Leases We lease office space in several U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites are located in Australia, Belgium, China, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom. We also lease equipment and vehicles. The future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of April 28, 2012 were $1.3 billion. Commitments Insieme Networks, Inc. In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we made an investment in Insieme Networks, Inc. (Insieme), an early-stage company focused on research and development in the data center market. This investment includes $100 million of funding and a license to certain of our technology. As a result of this investment, we own approximately 90% of Insieme and have consolidated the results of Insieme in our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. In connection with this investment, we and Insieme have entered into an option agreement that provides us the right to purchase the remaining interests in Insieme. In addition, the noncontrolling interest holders can require us to purchase their shares upon the occurrence of certain events. If we acquire the remaining interests of Insieme, the noncontrolling interest holders are eligible to receive two milestone payments, which will be determined using agreed-upon formulas based on revenue for certain of Insiemes products. We will begin recognizing the amounts due under the milestone payments when it is determined that such payments are probable of being earned, which may be in fiscal 2014. When such a determination has been made, the milestone payments will then be recorded as compensation expense by us based on an estimate of the fair value of the amounts probable of being earned, pursuant to a vesting schedule. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the amounts probable of being earned and the continued vesting will result in adjustments to the recorded compensation expense. The maximum amount that could be recorded as compensation expense by us is approximately $750 million. The milestone payments, if earned, are expected to be paid primarily during fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2017. Other Commitments In connection with our business combinations and asset purchases, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of agreed-upon technology, development, product development, or other milestones or continued employment with us of certain employees of acquired entities. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have entered into an agreement to acquire NDS Group Ltd. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $136 million as of April 28, 2012 compared with $192 million as of July 30, 2011. 66 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and customer financings, and we have determined that as of April 28, 2012 there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities. VCE is a joint venture that we formed in fiscal 2010 with EMC, with investments from VMware and Intel. VCE helps organizations leverage best-in-class technologies and disciplines from Cisco, EMC, and VMware to enable the transformation to cloud computing. As of April 28, 2012, our cumulative gross investment in the combined VCE entity was approximately $322 million, inclusive of accrued interest, and our ownership percentage was approximately 35%. During the nine months ended April 28, 2012, we invested approximately $211 million in VCE. We account for our investment in VCE under the equity method, and accordingly our carrying value in VCE was approximately $123 million, which reflects our cumulative share of VCEs losses. Over the next 12 months, as VCE scales its operations, we expect that we will make additional investments in VCE and we may incur additional losses, in proportion to our share. From time to time, EMC and Cisco may enter into guarantee agreements on behalf of VCE to indemnify third parties, such as customers, for monetary damages. Such guarantees were not material as of April 28, 2012. On an ongoing basis, we reassess our investments in privately held companies and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance. As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events. We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the previous discussion of these financing guarantees under Financing Receivables and Guarantees. Securities Lending We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale investments. These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. The average daily balance of securities lending for the nine months ended April 28, 2012 was approximately $0.4 billion. The average daily balance of securities lending for the nine months ended April 30, 2011 was approximately $1.9 billion. We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against any collateral losses. We did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented. As of April 28, 2012 and July 30, 2011, we had no outstanding securities lending transactions. We believe these arrangements do not present a material risk or impact to our liquidity requirements. Stock Repurchase Program and Dividends In September 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of April 28, 2012, our Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $82 billion of common stock under this program, and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $7.7 billion with no termination date. The stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program, reported based on the trade date, is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts): Nine Months Ended April 28, 2012 Shares Repurchased Weighted- Average Price per Share Amount Repurchased Cumulative balance at July 30, 2011 3,478 $ 20.64 $ 71,773 Repurchase of common stock under the stock repurchase program 153 16.66 2,560 Cumulative balance at April 28, 2012 3,631 $ 20.47 $ 74,333 67 Table of Contents On February 7, 2012 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per common share, a two-cent increase over each of the previous two quarters per-share dividend payment amounts, which was paid on April 25, 2012 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 5, 2012. During the first nine months of fiscal 2012, cash dividends of $0.20 per share, or $1.1 billion, were declared on our outstanding common stock and paid during the same period. Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and committed credit lines will satisfy, through at least the next 12 months, our liquidity requirements, both in total and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, pending acquisitions, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect the liquidity and the availability of, as well as our requirements for, capital resources. 68 Table of Contents