Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, endeavors, strives, may, variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. PART I Item 1. Business General We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP) based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide a broad line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are utilized at enterprise businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies and other service providers, commercial businesses, and personal residences. We conduct our business globally and manage our business by geography. Our business is organized into the following three geographic segments: The Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China (APJC). For revenue and other information regarding these segments, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We were incorporated in California in December 1984, and our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The mailing address of our headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is www.cisco.com. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this report. As part of our business focus on the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT, our products and services are designed to help our customers use technology to address their business imperatives and opportunities-improving productivity and user experience, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage-and to help them connect more effectively with their key stakeholders, including their customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and employees. We deliver networking products and solutions designed to simplify and secure customers network infrastructures. We also deliver products and solutions that leverage the network to most effectively address market transitions and customer requirements-including in recent periods, virtualization, cloud, collaboration, and video. We believe that integrating multiple network services into and across our products helps our customers reduce their operational complexity, increase their agility, and reduce their total cost of network ownership. Our products and technologies are grouped into the following categories: Switching; Next-Generation Network (NGN) Routing; Service Provider Video; Collaboration; Wireless; Data Center; Security; and Other Products. Network architectures, built on core routing and switching technologies, are evolving to accommodate the demands of increasing numbers of users, network applications and new network-related markets. These new markets are a natural extension of our core business and have emerged as the network has become the platform for provisioning, integrating, and delivering an ever-increasing array of IT-based products and services. 1 Table of Contents Strategy and Focus Areas Our focus continues to be on our five foundational priorities : Leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services), which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions Collaboration Data center virtualization and cloud Video Architectures for business transformation We believe that focusing on these priorities best positions us to continue to expand our share of our customers information technology spending. We continue to undergo product transitions in our core business, including the introduction of next-generation products with higher price performance and architectural advantages compared with both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth across these next-generation product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business conditions and, therefore, may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. However, we believe that these newly introduced products may continue to negatively impact product gross margins, which we are currently striving to address through various initiatives, including value engineering, effective supply chain management, and delivering greater customer value through offers that include hardware, software, and services. We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions, which we believe are gaining in frequency. Market transitions relating to the network are becoming, in our view, more significant as intelligent networks have moved from being a mere cost center issuewhere the focus is on reducing network operating costs and increasing network-related productivityto becoming, a platform for improved revenue generation as well as driving business agility and strategy execution. Market transitions for which we are primarily focused include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, networked mobility technologies, and the transition from Internet Protocol (IP) Version 4 to Version 6. For example, a significant transition is under way in the enterprise data center market, where the move to virtualization/the cloud is rapidly evolving. There is a continued growing awareness that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows: Virtualization: Refers to the process of creating a virtual, or nonphysical, version of a device or resource, such as a server, storage device, network, or operating system, in such a way that users as well as other devices and resources are able to interact with the virtual resource as if it were an actual physical resource. For example, one type of virtualization is server or data center virtualization, which consists of aggregating the current segregated data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand, thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network. The cloud: Refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software applications, are no longer tethered to a users physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user on demand as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously. This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously segregated technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions. The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing. Very large, well-financed, and aggressive competitors are each bringing their own new class of products to address this new market. We expect this competitive market trend to continue. With respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and open standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, 2 Table of Contents compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors and partners in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers. We are focusing on a market transition involving the move toward more programmable, flexible, and virtual networks, sometimes called software defined networking, or SDN. This transition is focused on moving from a hardware-centric approach for networking to a virtualized network environment that is designed to enable flexible, application-driven customization of network infrastructures. We believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) with hardware and software elements together to meet customers total cost of ownership, quality, security, scalability, and experience requirements. In our view, there is no single architecture that supports all customer requirements in this area. Pursuant to our strategy which is targeted to address a broad range of specific customer use cases, we will look to next steps that will follow the initial implementations that are under way. We plan to address the SDN opportunity to enable more open and programmable network infrastructure with a broad strategy and set of solutions. We introduced the Cisco Open Network Environment, or Cisco ONE, including overlay network technology, application programming interfaces (APIs), and network-operation tools called agents and controllers, and we have over 120 customers in a trial phase for these solutions. We have also begun introducing our application-centric infrastructure (ACI) strategy, with the goal of going a step further to transform network data centers to better address the demands of users who will be seeking access to new and current applications on their networks. Specifically, ACI is a data center networking architecture designed to provide customer IT networks with the ability to deliver business and other applications to end users with a simpler operational model, within a secure and potentially expandable infrastructure, and in a cost-effective manner. In our view, this evolution driven by mobile device proliferation and cloud delivered data is in early stages, but we believe we have a differentiated strategy with a unique ability to deploy data centers in locations ranging from the campus to the cloud. We intend to continue to drive internal innovation, partner for co-development, and make strategic investments to deliver the highest value solutions to our customers. We believe that the architectural approach that we have undertaken in the enterprise data center market is adaptable to other markets. An example of a market where we aim to apply this approach is mobility, where growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment, and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be delivered on such devices. A key term in this mobility-centered market transition is BYOD, an acronym for bring your own device, which in the context of IT usage in companies, universities, and other organizations refers to the growing trend of employees, customers, students, and others associated with such entities bringing and using their own laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, or other mobile devices for their work or participation, instead of using equipment provided by the organization. With regard to this market transition, to help such organizations meet the demands of increasing BYOD usage, our product development strategy involves a comprehensive architectural approach that will allow for, among other things, a unified security policy across the whole organization; a simplified operations and network management structure that understands application performance from a users perspective, enhances troubleshooting capability, and lowers network operating costs; and an uncompromised user experience over the organizations entire wireless and wired network that embraces use of any kind of device. Our mobility-related products and solutions reflect this architectural-based approach. Other market transitions on which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads and which convergence appears to be evolving even more quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies as customers evolve their communications and business models. More generally, we are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers. We believe that several current market transitions are combining into a potentially significant transition in the IP network industry, which we refer to as the Internet of Everything (IoE). IoE refers to the networked connection of people, process, data, and things, such as appliances, devices, and everyday objects, and is a market transition that we believe will create, by bringing everything online, significant opportunities for organizations, communities, and countries to obtain greater value from networked connections. In parallel with the anticipated proliferation in number of network-connected things, significant advances have been made in Internet and network-related technologies such as the evolution of the cloud, the advent of IPv6, the proliferation of mobile networking, and the increase in global broadband availability. These advances, in turn, are leading to continuing increases in network capabilities which, in combination with the growth in number of IP connections, are reasons why IoE has the potential to be a significant market transition that, we believe, may offer significant economic and societal benefits. 3 Table of Contents For a discussion of the risks associated with our strategy, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factor entitled We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer. For information regarding sales of our major products and services, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Products and Services Our current offerings fall into several categories: Switching Switching is an integral networking technology used in campuses, branch offices, and data centers. Switches are used within buildings in local-area networks (LANs) and across great distances in wide-area networks (WANs). Our switching products offer many forms of connectivity to end users, workstations, IP phones, access points, and servers and also function as aggregators on LANs and WANs. Our switching systems employ several widely used technologies, including Ethernet, Power over Ethernet, Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE), Packet over Synchronous Optical Network, and Multiprotocol Label Switching. Many of our switches are designed to support an integrated set of advanced services, allowing organizations to be more efficient by using one switch for multiple networking functions rather than multiple switches to accomplish the same functions. Key product platforms within our Switching product category, in which we also include storage products, are as follows: Fixed-Configuration Switches Modular Switches Storage Cisco Catalyst Series: Cisco Catalyst Series: Cisco MDS Series: Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Cisco MDS 9000 Cisco Catalyst 3560 Series Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Cisco Catalyst 3750 Series Cisco Catalyst 6800 Series Cisco Catalyst 3850 Series Cisco Nexus Series: Cisco Nexus Series: Cisco Nexus 2000 Series Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Cisco Nexus 3000 Series Cisco Nexus 5000 Series Cisco Nexus 6000 Series Fixed-configuration switches are designed to cover a range of deployments in small and medium-sized businesses. Our fixed-configuration switches are designed to provide a foundation for converged data, voice, and video services. They range from small, standalone switches to stackable models that function as a single, scalable switching unit. Modular switches are typically utilized by enterprise and service provider customers. These products are designed to offer flexibility and scalability for these customers, which due to their large-scale network demands often need to deploy numerous, advanced-functionality networking services without degrading overall performance. Fixed-configuration and modular switches also include products such as optics modules, which are shared across multiple product platforms. Our switching portfolio also includes virtual switches and service offerings. These products provide switching functionality for virtual machines and are designed to operate in a complementary fashion with virtual services to optimize security and application behavior. During fiscal 2013, we continued to introduce what we believe to be the industrys most advanced and versatile portfolio of modular, fixed-configuration, blade, and virtual LAN switches for campus, branch, and data center deployments. We also established new performance efficiencies in the industry for data center switching with the Unified Data Center next-generation storage network, which solution provides, in our view, unmatched flexibility with its multiprotocol innovations. Individually, these switches are designed to offer the performance and features required for nearly any deployment, from traditional small workgroups, wiring closets, and network cores to highly virtualized and converged corporate data centers. Working together, these switches are, in our view, the building blocks of an integrated network that delivers scalable and advanced functionality solutionsprotecting, optimizing, and growing as a customers business needs evolve. We also recently announced a versatile and broad approach to network programmability, called Cisco ONE, aimed at helping customers drive the next wave of business innovation through trends such as cloud, mobility, social networking, and video. Cisco ONE is designed to enable flexible, application-driven customization of network infrastructures to help businesses realize objectives such as increased service velocity, resource optimization, and faster monetization of new services. 4 Table of Contents NGN Routing NGN technology is fundamental to the foundation of the Internet. This category of technologies interconnects public and private wireline and mobile networks for mobile, data, voice, and video applications. Our NGN portfolio of hardware and software solutions consists primarily of routers and routing systems and is designed to meet the scale, reliability, and security needs of our customers. In our view, our portfolio is differentiated from those of our competitors through the advanced capabilities, which we sometimes refer to as intelligence, that our products provide at each layer of network infrastructure to deliver performance in the transmission of information and media-rich applications. As to specific products, we offer a broad range of hardware and software solutions, from core network infrastructure and mobile network for service providers and enterprises, to access routers for branch offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home. Key product areas within our NGN Routing category are as follows: High-End Routers Midrange and Low-End Routers Other NGN Routing Cisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASRs): Cisco Integrated Services Routers (ISRs): Optical networking products: Cisco ASR 901 and 903 Series Cisco 800 Series ISR Other routing products Cisco ASR 1000 Series Cisco 1900 Series ISR Cisco ASR 5000 and 5500 Series Cisco 2900 Series ISR Cisco ASR 9000 Series Cisco 3900 Series ISR Cisco ISR-AX Cisco Carrier Routing Systems (CRS): Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Router Cisco CRS-3 Multishelf System Cisco CRS-X Cisco 7600 Series Cisco Quantum Software Suite Small cell access routers Within our high-end routing category, we experienced continued adoption of our edge and mobile routing offerings, consisting of our Cisco ASR 9000 Series Routers and Cisco ASR 5500 products during fiscal 2013. Additionally, we made strategic acquisitions to further develop our differentiated software solutions consisting of wide-area-networking (WAN) orchestration, self-optimizing network (SON), and policy-based routing (PBR) which comprise the Cisco Quantum Software Suite offering, and we enhanced our small cell router portfolio with the Ubiquisys Limited acquisition. We continue to provide further enhancements to our NGN Routing portfolio through our architectural approach, which seeks to combine silicon, systems and software to enable the next-generation IoE and compelling new experiences for consumers, new revenue opportunities for service providers, and new ways to collaborate in the workplace. 5 Table of Contents Service Provider Video Our end-to-end, digital video distribution systems and digital interactive set-top boxes enable service providers and content originators to deliver entertainment, information, and communication services to consumers and businesses around the world. Key product areas within our Service Provider Video category are as follows: Service Provider Video Infrastructure Video Software and Solutions Set-top boxes: Content security systems IP set-top boxes Digital content management products Digital cable set-top boxes Digital headend products Digital transport adapters Digital media network products Integration services Cable/Telecommunications Access: Service provider video software solutions (Videoscape) Cable modem termination systems (CMTS) Hybrid fiber coaxial (HFC) access network products Quadrature amplitude modulation products (QAM) Cable modems: Data modems Embedded media terminal adapters Wireless gateways On July 30, 2012, we completed our acquisition of NDS Group Limited (NDS), a provider of video software and content security solutions that enable service providers and media companies to securely deliver and monetize new video entertainment experiences. The acquisition of NDS will be combined with the delivery of Cisco Videoscape, Ciscos comprehensive content delivery platform that enables service providers and media companies to deliver next-generation entertainment experiences. Collaboration Our Collaboration portfolio integrates voice, video, data, and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks across a wide range of devices and endpoints, including mobile phones, tablets, desktop and laptop computers, and desktop virtualization clients. Key products areas within our Collaboration category are as follows: Unified Communications: IP phones Call center and messaging products Unified communications infrastructure products Web-based collaborative offerings (WebEx) Cisco TelePresence Systems During fiscal 2013, our Unified Communication offerings expanded with the introduction of the Cisco Unified IP Conference Phone 8831 and Cisco Desktop Collaboration Experience DX650. The Cisco Unified IP Conference Phone 8831 is designed to deliver superior acoustic sound and room-size flexibility and features both wired and wireless extension microphones. The Cisco Desktop Collaboration Experience DX650 offers high-definition voice and video communications, integrated collaboration, end-user personalization, and cloud readiness in a single package powered by the widely used Android operating system. We combined these product introductions with infrastructure developments across the Collaboration portfolio, with the aim of driving interoperability across vendor, business, and consumer boundaries. Additionally, we announced a new release related to our Unified Communications Manager platform to deliver voice, video, messaging, mobility, and security functionality in a manner designed to enhance flexibility, to increase the ability to bridge disparate systems, and to protect the customers investments. 6 Table of Contents Wireless Wireless access via wireless fidelity (Wi-Fi) is a fast growing enterprise technology with companies and public institutions across the globe investing to provide indoor and outdoor coverage with seamless roaming for voice, video, and data applications. We aim to deliver an optimized user experience over Wi-Fi and leverage the intelligence of the network to solve business problems. Our wireless solutions include wireless access points; standalone, switch-converged, and cloud managed solutions; and network managed services. Our wireless solutions portfolio is enhanced with security and location-based services via our Mobility Services Engine (MSE) solution. Our offerings provide users with simplified management and mobile device troubleshooting features that are designed to reduce operational cost and maximize flexibility and reliability. We are also investing in customized chipset development to deliver innovative radio frequency (RF) product functionality such as our CleanAir proactive spectrum intelligence, our ClientLink solution for mobile devices, and our VideoStream video optimization technology. Key product areas within our Wireless category are as follows: Cisco Aironet Series Access point modules for 3600 Series (802.11ac, 3G, WSSI) Controllers (standalone and integrated) Meraki wireless cloud solutions In fiscal 2013, we introduced Connected Mobile Experience (CMX), a Wi-Fi location data analytics platform designed to enable our business customers to enhance the mobile device experiences of their customers and thereby create new monetization opportunities. We also expanded our Unified Access portfolio with our Cisco 5760 Wireless LAN Controller and Cisco Catalyst 3850 Series Switches with the aim of converging wireline and mobile networks into one physical infrastructure and, additionally, achieving greater network intelligence, performance, and integration with our Cisco ONE platform. Our acquisitions of Meraki, Inc. (Meraki), a cloud managed networking company, and ThinkSmart Technologies Limited, a specialist in Wi-Fi data location analytics, in our view strengthened our Unified Access platform. The acquisition of Meraki is intended to expand our strategy by providing scalable, easy-to-deploy, on-premise networking solutions for midmarket businesses that can be centrally managed from the cloud. Data Center Our Data Center product category has been our fastest growing major product category for the past three fiscal years. Cisco Unified Data Center unites computing, networking, storage, management, and virtualization into a single, fabric-based platform designed to increase and simplify operating efficiencies and provide business agility. Unified Data Center is specifically designed for virtualization and automation and enables on-demand provisioning from shared pools of infrastructure across physical and virtual environments. Key product areas within our Data Center product category are as follows: Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS): Cisco UCS B-Series Blade Servers Cisco UCS C-Series Rack Servers Cisco UCS Fabric Interconnects Cisco UCS Manager and Cisco UCS Central Software Cisco UCS Director Server Access Virtualization: Cisco Nexus 1000V Cisco Nexus 1000V InterCloud During fiscal 2013 we expanded the systems management capabilities of the Cisco UCS management domain with the addition of Cisco UCS Central, which platform is designed to expand the Cisco UCS management domain to encompass thousands of servers across one or many data centers. We continued to invest in data center and cloud management software by our acquisition of Cloupia, Inc., from which our Cisco UCS Director product evolved. In addition, we continued to invest in data center-related technologies obtained from prior acquisitions, and we developed new management software innovations related to Cisco UCS. We also introduced our Cisco Nexus 1000V InterCloud offering, which provides the architectural foundation for secure hybrid clouds, with the aim of allowing enterprises to easily and securely connect the enterprise data center to the public cloud. 7 Table of Contents Our fiscal 2013 Data Center product innovations were designed to further our strategy of enabling customers to consolidate both physical and virtualized workloads with unique application requirements onto a single unified, scalable, centrally managed, and automated system. Our strategy has resulted in a portfolio of standalone and converged infrastructure solutions designed to preserve customer choice, accelerate business initiatives, reduce risk, lower the cost of IT, and represent a comprehensive solution when collectively deployed. Security Security is a significant business concern, and we believe it is a top investment priority for our customers. Security threats continue to escalate, resulting in the loss of revenue, intellectual property, and reputation. Our security portfolio of products and services offers identity, network, and content security solutions designed to enable customers to reduce the impact of threats and realize the benefits of a mobile, collaborative, and cloud-enabled business. Our products in this category span firewall, intrusion prevention, remote access, virtual private networks (VPNs), unified clients, network admission control, web gateways, and email gateways. Our AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client solution enables users to access networks with their mobile device of choice, such as laptops and smartphone-based mobile devices, while allowing organizations to manage the security risks of networks. Our cloud-based web security service is designed to provide real-time threat protection and to prevent malware from reaching corporate networks, including roaming or mobile users. We provide security solutions that are designed to be integrated, timely, comprehensive, and effective, helping to ensure holistic security for organizations worldwide. During fiscal 2013, we extended our security solutions to address the expanding needs of our customers. These solutions focus on fortifying our data centers against threats and on enhancing email and web security to meet the stringent requirements of a more mobile workforce. We also completed our acquisition of Cognitive Security, the product line of which applies artificial intelligence techniques to detect advanced cyberthreats. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Sourcefire, Inc. (Sourcefire), a leader in intelligent cybersecurity solutions. Sourcefire delivers innovative, highly automated security through continuous awareness, threat detection and protection across its portfolio, including next-generation intrusion prevention systems, next-generation firewalls, and advanced malware protection. With the Sourcefire acquisition, we aim to accelerate our security strategy of defending, discovering, and remediating advanced threats to provide continuous security solutions to our customers in more places across the network. Other Products Our Other Products category primarily consists of certain emerging technologies and other networking products. Service In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Technical support services help ensure that our products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system software that we have developed. These services help customers protect their network investments and minimize downtime for systems running mission-critical applications. A key example of this is our Cisco Smart Services offering, which leverages the intelligence from Ciscos millions of devices and customer connections to protect and optimize network investment for our customers and partners. Advanced services are services that are part of a comprehensive program that is designed to provide responsive, preventive, and consultative support of our technologies for specific networking needs. The advanced services program supports networking devices, applications, solutions, and complete infrastructures. Our service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy, along with our architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors. 8 Table of Contents Customers and Markets Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and networking requirements of our customers. These include the size of the organization, number and types of technology systems, geographic location, and business applications deployed throughout the customers network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, or market segment. In each of the past three fiscal years, no single customer has accounted for 10% or more of our revenue. Our customers primarily operate in the following markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and public sector. Enterprise Enterprise businesses are large regional, national, or global organizations with multiple locations or branch offices and typically employ 1,000 or more employees. Many enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multivendor environment. We strive to take advantage of the network-as-a-platform strategy to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist customer growth. We offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services primarily through our service provider partners. We sell these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners, as well as selling directly to these customers. Service Providers Service providers offer data, voice, video, and mobile/wireless services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide. They include regional, national, and international wireline carriers, as well as Internet, cable, and wireless providers. We also group media, broadcast, and content providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the telecommunications industry continue to blur between traditional network-based services and content-based and application-based services. Service providers use a variety of our routing and switching, optical, security, video, mobility, and network management products, systems, and services for their own networks. In addition, many service providers use Cisco data center, virtualization, and collaboration technologies to offer managed or Internet-based services to their business customers. Compared with other customers, service providers are more likely to require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks, which requirements are addressed, we believe, by our architectural approach. Commercial Generally, we define commercial businesses as companies with fewer than 1,000 employees. The larger, or midmarket, customers within the commercial market are served by a combination of our direct salesforce and our channel partners. These customers typically require the latest advanced technologies that our enterprise customers demand, but with less complexity. Small businesses, or companies with fewer than 100 employees, require information technologies and communication products that are easy to configure, install, and maintain. These smaller companies within the commercial market are primarily served by our channel partners. Public Sector Public sector entities include federal governments, state and local governments, as well as educational institution customers. Many public sector entities have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multivendor environment. We sell to public sector entities through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners, as well as selling directly to these customers. Sales Overview As of the end of fiscal 2013 , our worldwide sales and marketing departments consisted of 24,938 employees, including managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in 94 countries, and we sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels with support from our salesforce. A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, and distributors. Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are also systems integrators. Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. We refer to sales through distributors as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. For information regarding risks related to our channels, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factors entitled Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and margins and Our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess inventory may harm our gross margins. 9 Table of Contents For information regarding risks relating to our international operations, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factors entitled Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment; Entrance into new or developing markets exposes us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations; Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition; We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows; and Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results, among others. Our service offerings complement our products through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality, and maintenance services, including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers. Financing Arrangements We provide financing arrangements for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our financing arrangements include the following: Leases: Sales-type Direct financing Operating Loans Financed service contracts For additional information regarding these financing arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Product Backlog Our product backlog at July 27, 2013 , the last day of our 2013 fiscal year, was approximately $4.9 billion , compared with product backlog of approximately $5.0 billion at July 28, 2012 , the last day of our 2012 fiscal year. The product backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our product backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual product revenue for any future period. Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. Our growth strategy is based on the three components of innovation, which we sometimes refer to as our build, buy, and partner approach. The foregoing is a way of describing how we strive to innovate: we can internally develop, or build, our own innovative solutions; we can acquire, or buy, companies with innovative technologies; and we can partner with companies to jointly develop and/or resell product technologies and innovations. The combination of technological complexity and rapid change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden the range of products and services we deliver to customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments, and alliances. To summarize, we employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and services: Developing new technologies and products internally Acquiring all or parts of other companies Entering into joint development efforts with other companies Reselling other companies products Acquisitions We have acquired many companies, and we expect to make future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with acquisitions are more fully discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk 10 Table of Contents factor entitled We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Investments in Privately Held Companies We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or that provide strategic value. The risks associated with these investments are more fully discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factor entitled We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings. Strategic Alliances We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals of a strategic alliance can include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new market creation. Companies that we have, or recently had, strategic alliances with include the following: Accenture Ltd; AT&T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; EMC Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Intel Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; NetApp, Inc.; Nokia Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; Red Hat, Inc.; SAP AG; Sprint Nextel Corporation; Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.; VCE Company, LLC (VCE); VMware, Inc.; Wipro Limited; and others. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. The risks associated with our strategic alliances are more fully discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factor entitled If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may not realize the expected benefits from such alliances, and we may experience increased competition or delays in product development. Competition We compete in the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in our new product markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. Our competitors include Alcatel-Lucent; Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; Dell Inc.; LM Ericsson Telephone Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Motorola Solutions, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.; Polycom, Inc.; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; and VMware, Inc.; among others. Some of these companies compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated within the data center. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering advanced services, standards-based protocols, cloud computing, and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. 11 Table of Contents The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include: The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services Product performance Price The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages The ability to reduce production costs The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection Conformance to standards Market presence The ability to provide financing Disruptive technology shifts and new business models We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. Therefore, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success. Research and Development We regularly seek to introduce new products and features to address the requirements of our markets. We allocate our research and development budget among our product categories, which consist of Switching, NGN Routing, Service Provider Video, Collaboration, Wireless, Data Center, Security, and Other Product technologies, for this purpose. Our research and development expenditures were $ 5.9 billion , $5.5 billion , and $5.8 billion in fiscal 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , respectively. These expenditures are applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. Recent areas of focus are tied to our foundational priorities and include, but are not limited to, our core routing and switching products, collaboration, and the Cisco Unified Computing System and other products related to the data center. Our expenditures for research and development costs were expensed as incurred. The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue developing products that meet key industry standards and to support important protocol standards as they emerge, such as IP Version 6. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and technological changes or that those products will achieve market acceptance. Manufacturing We rely on contract manufacturers for all of our manufacturing needs. We presently use a variety of independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board assembly, in-circuit test, product repair, and product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to configure products that meet customer requirements and to maintain quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. The manufacturing process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, which are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products. The manufacturing processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards. Our arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding capacity, quality, and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any significant long-term contracts with any manufacturing service provider. We generally have the option to renew arrangements on an as-needed basis. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or any quantities beyond certain amounts covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods of time, defined as less than one year. 12 Table of Contents Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws. Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products. The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, including the risk factors entitled Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce, We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others, and We rely on the availability of third-party licenses. Employees Employees are summarized as follows: July 27, 2013 Employees by geography: United States 37,275 Rest of world 37,774 Total 75,049 Employees by line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations: Cost of sales (1) 16,349 Research and development 26,416 Sales and marketing 24,938 General and administrative 7,346 Total 75,049 (1) Cost of sales includes manufacturing support, services, and training. We consider the relationships with our employees to be positive. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future. 13 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows the name, age, and position as of August 31, 2013 of each of our executive officers: Name Age Position with the Company Frank A. Calderoni 56 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer John T. Chambers 64 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Director Mark Chandler 57 Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer Blair Christie 41 Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer Wim Elfrink 61 Executive Vice President, Emerging Solutions and Chief Globalisation Officer Robert W. Lloyd 57 President, Development and Sales Gary B. Moore 64 President and Chief Operating Officer Pankaj Patel 59 Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer, Global Engineering Randy Pond 59 Executive Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems Charles H. Robbins 47 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations Mr. Calderoni joined Cisco in May 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales Finance. In June 2007, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Solutions Finance. He was appointed to his current position effective in February 2008. From March 2002 until he joined Cisco, Mr. Calderoni served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QLogic Corporation, a supplier of storage networking solutions. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SanDisk Corporation from February 2000 to February 2002. Prior to that, he was employed by IBM Corporation, where he held a number of executive positions. Mr. Calderoni also serves on the Board of Directors of Adobe Systems Incorporated. Mr. Chambers has served as Chief Executive Officer since January 1995, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 2006, and as a member of the Board of Directors since November 1993. Mr. Chambers also served as President from January 31, 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers was promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations. Mr. Chandler joined Cisco in July 1996, upon Ciscos acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., where he served as General Counsel. He served as Ciscos Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was promoted to Vice President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel, and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, and in May 2012 was appointed Chief Compliance Officer. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation. Ms. Christie joined Cisco in August 1999 as part of Ciscos Investor Relations team. From April 2000 through December 2003, Ms. Christie held a number of managerial positions within Ciscos Investor Relations function. In January 2004, Ms. Christie was promoted to Vice President, Investor Relations. In June 2006, Ms. Christie was appointed to Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2008, Ms. Christie was promoted to Senior Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2011, Ms. Christie was appointed to her current position. Mr. Elfrink joined Cisco in 1997 as Vice President of Cisco Services in Europe. In November 2000, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Cisco Services and took over global responsibility for the function, relocating to San Jose, California. Mr. Elfrink was appointed Chief Globalisation Officer in December 2006 and moved to Bangalore, India to establish Ciscos Globalisation Centre East. In August 2007, he was named Executive Vice President. In February 2011, Mr. Elfrink was appointed to his current position, in which he heads three of Ciscos global initiatives: Ciscos Industry Solutions Group, the Emerging Countries initiatives, and Ciscos globalisation strategy. Mr. Lloyd joined Cisco in November 1994 as General Manager of Cisco Canada. In October 1998, he was promoted to Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa); in February 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, EMEA; and in July 2005, Mr. Lloyd was appointed Senior Vice President, U.S., Canada, and Japan. In April 2009, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations. In October 2012, Mr. Lloyd was appointed to his current position. 14 Table of Contents Mr. Moore joined Cisco in October 2001 as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services. In August 2007, he also assumed responsibility as co-lead of Cisco Services. In May 2010, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Cisco Services and in February 2011, he was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. In October 2012, Mr. Moore was appointed to his current position. Immediately before joining Cisco, Mr. Moore served for approximately two years as chief executive officer of Netigy Corporation, a network consulting company. Prior to that, he was employed by Electronic Data Systems, where he held a number of senior executive positions. Mr. Patel joined Cisco in July 1996 upon Ciscos acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., serving from July 1996 through September 1999 as a Senior Director of Engineering. From November 1999 through January 2003, he served as Senior Vice President of Engineering at Redback Networks Inc., a networking equipment provider later acquired by Ericsson. In January 2003, Mr. Patel rejoined Cisco as Vice President and General Manager, Cable Business Unit, and was promoted to Senior Vice President in July 2005. In January 2006, Mr. Patel was named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Service Provider Business and, additionally, in May 2011 became co-leader of Engineering. In June 2012, Mr. Patel assumed the leadership of Engineering. In August 2012, Mr. Patel was promoted to his current position . Mr. Pond joined Cisco in September 1993 upon Ciscos acquisition of Crescendo Communications, Inc. In 1994, Mr. Pond assumed leadership of Ciscos Supply/Demand group. In 1994, he was appointed Director of Manufacturing Operations. He was promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In January 2000, Mr. Pond was promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia operations. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations and Logistics in June 2001. In August 2003, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems, and he was named Executive Vice President in August 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo Communications. Mr. Robbins joined Cisco in December 1997, from which time until March 2002 he held a number of managerial positions within Ciscos sales organization. Mr. Robbins was promoted to Vice President in March 2002, assuming leadership of Ciscos U.S. channel sales organization. Additionally, in July 2005 he assumed leadership of Ciscos Canada channel sales organization. In December 2007, Mr. Robbins was promoted to Senior Vice President, U.S. Commercial, and in August 2009 he was appointed Senior Vice President, U.S. Enterprise, Commercial and Canada. In July 2011, Mr. Robbins was named Senior Vice President, Americas. In October 2012, Mr. Robbins was promoted to his current position. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE Our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. These factors include: Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, in part due to changes in the global economic environment Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers spending plans and associated revenue Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments Price and product competition in the communications and networking industries, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation and different business models from various geographic regions The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers The introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products and our success in new and evolving markets, including in our newer product categories such as data center and collaboration and in emerging technologies, as well as the adoption of new standards New business models for our offerings, such as XaaS, where costs are borne up front while revenue is recognized over time Variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold The timing, size, and mix of orders from customers Manufacturing and customer lead times Fluctuations in our gross margins, and the factors that contribute to such fluctuations, as described below The ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures, especially during a period of global credit market disruption or in the event of customer, channel partner, contract manufacturer or supplier financial problems Share-based compensation expense Actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales and manufacturing activities Changes in tax laws, tax regulations and/or accounting rules 16 Table of Contents As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS AND THE UNCERTAIN GEOPOLITICAL ENVIRONMENT Challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed, and may continue to contribute, to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries at large, as well as in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in: Reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers, particularly service providers, and other customer markets as well Increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors but also as a consequence of customers disposing of unutilized products Risk of excess and obsolete inventories Risk of supply constraints Risk of excess facilities and manufacturing capacity Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense The global macroeconomic environment and recovery from the downturn has been challenging and inconsistent. Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding the U.S. federal budget including the effect of the recent sequestration, tapering of bond purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment. For example, during fiscal 2011 we experienced a decrease in spending by our public sector customers in almost every developed market around the world, and we continue to see decreases in spending within certain categories of our public sector customer market. WE HAVE BEEN INVESTING IN PRIORITIES, INCLUDING OUR FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES, AND IF THE RETURN ON THESE INVESTMENTS IS LOWER OR DEVELOPS MORE SLOWLY THAN WE EXPECT, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE HARMED We have been realigning and are dedicating resources to focus on certain priorities, such as leadership in our core routing, switching and services, including security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. However, the return on our investments in such priorities may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments (including if our selection of areas for investment does not play out as we expect), or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. OUR REVENUE FOR A PARTICULAR PERIOD IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, AND A SHORTFALL IN REVENUE MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty. Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or may decline, which for example occurred in fiscal 2009. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods. We have experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns. In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs. In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods in which our contract manufacturers are operating at higher levels of 17 Table of Contents capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters occur and are not remediated within the same quarter. The timing of large orders can also have a significant effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter, primarily in the United States and in emerging countries. From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in revenue. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue. Inventory management remains an area of focus. We have experienced longer than normal manufacturing lead times in the past which have caused some customers to place the same order multiple times within our various sales channels and to cancel the duplicative orders upon receipt of the product, or to place orders with other vendors with shorter manufacturing lead times. Such multiple ordering (along with other factors) or risk of order cancellation may cause difficulty in predicting our revenue and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively. In addition, our efforts to improve manufacturing lead-time performance may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter revenue and operating results. In addition, when facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations which in turn contribute to an increase in purchase commitments. Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less than our expectations. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results. WE EXPECT GROSS MARGIN TO VARY OVER TIME, AND OUR LEVEL OF PRODUCT GROSS MARGIN MAY NOT BE SUSTAINABLE Our level of product gross margins declined in fiscal 2011 and to a lesser extent in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013 and may continue to decline and be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group Introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages, and new business models for our offerings such as XaaS Our ability to reduce production costs Entry into new markets or growth in lower margin markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures, through acquisitions or internal development Sales discounts Increases in material, labor or other manufacturing-related costs, which could be significant especially during periods of supply constraints Excess inventory and inventory holding charges Obsolescence charges Changes in shipment volume The timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals Increased cost, loss of cost savings or dilution of savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand or if the financial health of either contract manufacturers or suppliers deteriorates Lower than expected benefits from value engineering Increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially from China 18 Table of Contents Changes in distribution channels Increased warranty costs Increased amortization of purchased intangible assets, especially from acquisitions How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods. SALES TO THE SERVICE PROVIDER MARKET ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND WEAKNESS IN SALES ORDERS FROM THIS INDUSTRY MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain products in our newer product categories such as Data Center, Collaboration, and Service Provider Video, in addition to longer sales cycles. In the past, we have experienced significant weakness in sales to service providers over certain extended periods of time as market conditions have fluctuated. Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures; the availability of funding; and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country of operations. Weakness in orders from this industry, including as a result of any slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers (which may be more prevalent during a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty), could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Such slowdowns may continue or recur in future periods. Orders from this industry could decline for many reasons other than the competitiveness of our products and services within their respective markets. For example, in the past, many of our service provider customers have been materially and adversely affected by slowdowns in the general economy, by overcapacity, by changes in the service provider market, by regulatory developments, and by constraints on capital availability, resulting in business failures and substantial reductions in spending and expansion plans. These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results in the past, and some of these or other conditions in the service provider market could affect our business and operating results in any future period. Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors. All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers. DISRUPTION OF OR CHANGES IN OUR DISTRIBUTION MODEL COULD HARM OUR SALES AND MARGINS If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if our distributors financial condition or operations weaken, our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected. A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, and distributors. Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators. Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. We refer to sales through distributors as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors is generally recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. If sales through indirect channels increase, this may lead to greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a degree, the timing of orders from our customers. Historically, we have seen fluctuations in our gross margins based on changes in the balance of our distribution channels. Although variability to date has not been significant, there can be no assurance that changes in the balance of our distribution model in future periods would not have an adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability. 19 Table of Contents Some factors could result in disruption of or changes in our distribution model, which could harm our sales and margins, including the following: We compete with some of our channel partners, including through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products or otherwise compete with them Some of our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear Some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions Revenue from indirect sales could suffer if our distributors financial condition or operations weaken In addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. To the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Further, sales of our products outside of agreed territories can result in disruption to the Companys distribution channels. THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE COMPETE ARE INTENSELY COMPETITIVE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ACHIEVEMENT OF REVENUE GROWTH The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in newer product categories such as data center and collaboration and in our priorities. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. For information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled Competition contained in Item 1. Busines s of this report. Some of our competitors compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with whom we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include: The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services Product performance Price The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages The ability to reduce production costs 20 Table of Contents The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection Conformance to standards Market presence The ability to provide financing Disruptive technology shifts and new business models We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success. OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT RELATING TO OUR SALES TO OUR TWO-TIER DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL IS COMPLEX, AND EXCESS INVENTORY MAY HARM OUR GROSS MARGINS We must manage our inventory relating to sales to our distributors effectively, because inventory held by them could affect our results of operations. Our distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them, and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Revenue to our distributors generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and they are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling price, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. When facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations. If we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES, INCLUDING FINANCIAL PROBLEMS OF CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS OR COMPONENT SUPPLIERS, OR A SHORTAGE OF ADEQUATE COMPONENT SUPPLY OR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY THAT INCREASED OUR COSTS OR CAUSED A DELAY IN OUR ABILITY TO FULFILL ORDERS, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS, AND OUR FAILURE TO ESTIMATE CUSTOMER DEMAND PROPERLY MAY RESULT IN EXCESS OR OBSOLETE COMPONENT SUPPLY, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GROSS MARGINS The fact that we do not own or operate the bulk of our manufacturing facilities and that we are reliant on our extended supply chain could have an adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results: Any financial problems of either contract manufacturers or component suppliers could either limit supply or increase costs Reservation of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or increase costs A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to adequately authorize procurement of inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins could decrease. We have experienced longer than normal lead times in the past. Although we have generally secured additional supply or taken other mitigation actions when significant disruptions have occurred, if similar situations occur in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. See the risk factor above entitled Our revenue for a particular period is difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenue may harm our operating results. 21 Table of Contents Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We have experienced component shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations. We may in the future experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or strong demand in the industry for those parts. Growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels and manufacturing capacity, especially for labor-intensive components, components for which we purchase a substantial portion of the supply, or re-ramping manufacturing capacity for highly complex products. During periods of shortages or delays the price of components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need, which is more likely to occur in a period of demand uncertainties such as we are currently experiencing. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources, and a global economic downturn and related market uncertainty could negatively impact the availability of components from one or more of these sources, especially during times such as we have recently seen when there are supplier constraints based on labor and other actions taken during economic downturns. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales. We believe that we may be faced with the following challenges in the future: New markets in which we participate may grow quickly, which may make it difficult to quickly obtain significant component capacity As we acquire companies and new technologies, we may be dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners We face competition for certain components that are supply-constrained, from existing competitors, and companies in other markets Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could continue to be significant issues for us. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. When facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations which in turn contribute to an increase in purchase commitments. Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less than our expectations. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an oversupply of parts could result in excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our gross margins. For additional information regarding our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. WE DEPEND UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS, AND IF WE FAIL TO PREDICT AND RESPOND TO EMERGING TECHNOLOGICAL TRENDS AND CUSTOMERS CHANGING NEEDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MARKET SHARE MAY SUFFER The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, new product introductions, and evolving methods of building and operating networks. Our operating results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products into existing and emerging markets and to reduce the production costs of existing products. We believe the industry is evolving to enable personal and business process collaboration enabled by networked technologies. As such, many of our strategic initiatives and investments are aimed at meeting the requirements that a network capable of multiple-party, collaborative interaction would demand, and the investments we have made and our architectural approach are designed to enable the increased use of the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT. For example, in fiscal 2009 we launched our Cisco Unified Computing System, our next-generation enterprise data center platform architected to unite computing, network, storage access, and virtualization resources in a single system, which is designed to address the fundamental transformation occurring in the enterprise data center. Cisco Unified Computing System is one of several priorities on which we are focusing resources. Another example of a market transition we are focusing on is the move towards more programmable, flexible and virtual 22 Table of Contents networks. In our view, this evolution is in its very early stages, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine ASICs, hardware, and software elements together. The process of developing new technology, including technology related to more programmable, flexible and virtual networks, is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers changing needs and emerging technological trends our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources, including the investments we have been making in our priorities to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. In particular, if our model of the evolution of networking to collaborative systems does not emerge as we believe it will, or if the industry does not evolve as we believe it will, or if our strategy for addressing this evolution is not successful, many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value. For example, if we do not introduce products related to network programmability, such as software-defined-networking products, in a timely fashion, or if product offerings in this market that ultimately succeed are based on technology, or an approach to technology, that differs from ours, our business could be harmed. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on our vision because of challenges with regard to product planning and timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors, some of which may also be our strategic alliance partners, providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, revenue, and earnings. The success of new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The products and technologies in our newer product categories such as Data Center and Collaboration as well as those in our Other Products category that we identify as emerging technologies may not prove to have the market success we anticipate, and we may not successfully identify and invest in other emerging or new products. CHANGES IN INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND MARKET CONDITIONS COULD LEAD TO CHARGES RELATED TO DISCONTINUANCES OF CERTAIN OF OUR PRODUCTS OR BUSINESSES, ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND WORKFORCE REDUCTIONS In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and to consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any resource realignment, or decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses, may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel with contract manufacturers and suppliers. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings. In August 2013, we announced that we are rebalancing our resources with a workforce reduction plan that will impact approximately 4,000 employees or 5% of our global workforce. We expect to take action under this plan beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, and we expect to incur significant charges as a result of these activities. The implementation of this workforce reduction plan may be disruptive to our business, and following completion of the workforce reduction plan our business may not be more efficient or effective than prior to implementation of the plan. Our restructuring activities, including any related charges and the impact of the related headcount reductions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. OVER THE LONG TERM WE INTEND TO INVEST IN ENGINEERING, SALES, SERVICE, MARKETING AND MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES, AND THESE INVESTMENTS MAY ACHIEVE DELAYED, OR LOWER THAN EXPECTED, BENEFITS WHICH COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in personnel and other resources related to our engineering, sales, service, marketing and manufacturing functions as we focus on our foundational priorities, such as leadership in our core routing, switching and services, including security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents OUR BUSINESS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDS UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE INTERNET AND INTERNET-BASED SYSTEMS A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on growth and evolution of the Internet, including the continued development of the Internet, and on the deployment of our products by customers who depend on such continued growth and evolution. To the extent that an economic slowdown or uncertainty and related reduction in capital spending adversely affect spending on Internet infrastructure we could experience material harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition. Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and security, we believe that there could be performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility. Because we are a large supplier of networking products, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are due to the performance of our own products. Such an event could also result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock independent of direct effects on our business. WE HAVE MADE AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO MAKE ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS Our growth depends upon market growth, our ability to enhance our existing products, and our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies, particularly companies with large and widespread operations and/or complex products, such as Scientific-Atlanta, WebEx, Starent, Tandberg and NDS Group Limited Diversion of managements attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans Acquisitions may also cause us to: Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders percentage ownership Use a substantial portion of our cash resources, or incur debt, as we did in fiscal 2006 when we issued and sold $6.5 billion in senior unsecured notes to fund our acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition Assume liabilities Record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets Incur tax expenses related to the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development (R&D) cost sharing arrangement and legal structure 24 Table of Contents Incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to a failure to do so. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. From time to time, we have made acquisitions that resulted in charges in an individual quarter. These charges may occur in any particular quarter, resulting in variability in our quarterly earnings. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods is uncertain and could be impacted by mergers and acquisitions. Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions. Please see the risk factors above, including the risk factor entitled We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer for additional information. ENTRANCE INTO NEW OR DEVELOPING MARKETS EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL COMPETITION AND WILL LIKELY INCREASE DEMANDS ON OUR SERVICE AND SUPPORT OPERATIONS As we focus on new market opportunities-for example, storage; wireless; security; transporting data, voice, and video traffic across the same network; and other areas within our newer products categories such as data center and collaboration, emerging technologies, and our priorities-we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in emerging countries. Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities. Further, provision of greater levels of services, support and financing by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. In addition, entry into other markets has subjected and will subject us to additional risks, particularly to those markets, including the effects of general market conditions and reduced consumer confidence. INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them with the ability to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. PRODUCT QUALITY PROBLEMS COULD LEAD TO REDUCED REVENUE, GROSS MARGINS, AND NET INCOME We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. There can be no assurance that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or affect gross margins. From time to time, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in products that we had shipped. There can be no assurance that such remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and net income. 25 Table of Contents DUE TO THE GLOBAL NATURE OF OUR OPERATIONS, POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC CHANGES OR OTHER FACTORS IN A SPECIFIC COUNTRY OR REGION COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries around the world and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers, component suppliers and distribution partners. Although sales in several of our emerging countries decreased in recent periods, several of our emerging countries generally have been relatively fast growing, and we have announced plans to expand our commitments and expectations in certain of those countries. As such, our growth depends in part on our increasing sales into emerging countries. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of political, economic or other factors relating to our operations inside and outside the United States, including impacts from the U.S. federal budget including the effect of the recent sequestration, tapering of bond purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve, and the challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, including, among others, the following: Foreign currency exchange rates Political or social unrest Economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region; environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries Political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations Adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on our global operations WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND TO CREDIT EXPOSURES IN WEAKENED MARKETS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements. We expect demand for customer financing to continue, and recently we have been experiencing an increase in this demand as the credit markets have been impacted by the challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment, including increased demand from customers in certain emerging countries. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our financing activities described above may increase if our customers are adversely affected by a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks. In the past, there have been significant bankruptcies among customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements, particularly among Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred. Although these losses have not been material to date, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A portion of our sales is derived through our distributors. These distributors are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such business terms. However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk, because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet payment obligations. Additionally, to the degree that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUES OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES; IMPAIRMENT OF OUR INVESTMENTS COULD HARM OUR EARNINGS We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. Our portfolio includes fixed income securities and equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. If such investments suffer market price declines, as we experienced with some of our investments during fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other than temporary. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled