Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, endeavors, strives, may, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview The third quarter of fiscal 2011 had 13 weeks, compared with 14 weeks in the third quarter of fiscal 2010; thus our operating results for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2011 reflect one less week compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2010. A summary of our results is as follows (in millions, except percentages and per-share amounts): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance Net sales $ 10,866 $ 10,368 4.8 % $ 32,023 $ 29,204 9.7 % Gross margin percentage 61.3 % 63.9 % (2.6 )pts. 61.4 % 64.5 % (3.1 )pts. Operating expenses $ 4,476 $ 4,285 4.5 % $ 13,457 $ 12,011 12.0 % Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue 41.2 % 41.3 % (0.1 )pts. 42.0 % 41.1 % 0.9 pts. Operating margin percentage 20.1 % 22.6 % (2.5 )pts. 19.4 % 23.4 % (4.0 )pts. Net income $ 1,807 $ 2,192 (17.6 )% $ 5,258 $ 5,832 (9.8 )% Net income as a percentage of revenue 16.6 % 21.1 % (4.5 )pts. 16.4 % 20.0 % (3.6 )pts. Earnings per sharediluted $ 0.33 $ 0.37 (10.8 )% $ 0.94 $ 0.99 (5.1 )% Three months ended April 30, 2011 compared with three months ended May 1, 2010 Net sales increased 5% with net product sales increasing 3% while service revenue increased 14%. Product sales represented 80% of total revenue while service revenue represented 20% of total revenue. We experienced net sales increases across each of our geographic segments. Our service revenue was particularly strong with growth across each geographic segment. Total gross margin declined by 2.6 percentage points primarily as a result of higher sales discounts, unfavorable product pricing, unfavorable product mix, and restructuring and other charges associated with our consumer business. These factors were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs, which included certain benefits that we do not expect to recur in future periods. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased slightly. Our effective income tax rate was 18.0% while in the prior year period our effective income tax rate was 8.8%. The lower tax rate in the prior year period was as a result of a nonrecurring tax benefit of $158 million. Diluted earnings per share decreased by 11%, a result of an 18% decrease in net income, partially offset by a decline in our outstanding diluted share count of 332 million shares. For further details see our Results of Operations discussion beginning on page 49. Nine months ended April 30, 2011 compared with nine months ended May 1, 2010 Net sales increased 10% with net product sales increasing 8% while service revenue increased 15%. We experienced net sales increases across each of our geographic segments for both product and service revenue. Total gross margin declined by 3.1 percentage points primarily as a result of higher sales discounts and unfavorable product pricing, unfavorable product mix, increased amortization and impairment charges from acquisition-related intangible assets, and restructuring charges. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue increased by 0.9 percentage points primarily as a result of increased headcount-related costs. As a percentage of revenue, research and development and sales and marketing expenses increased while general and administrative expenses declined. Our effective income tax rate was 17.3% while in the prior year period our effective income tax rate was 16.6%. Diluted earnings per share decreased by 5%, a result of a 10% decrease in net income, partially offset by a decline in our outstanding diluted share count of 273 million shares. For further details see our Results of Operations discussion beginning on page 49. 39 Table of Contents Our results in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 reflect the unanticipated continuation and acceleration of adverse trends which were identified in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of fiscal 2011. While net sales grew 5% over the corresponding period in fiscal 2010, net income declined compared to the prior year period. Switching revenue declined 9% for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared to the prior year period due to continuing transitions taking place in our product portfolio and the impact of increased competitive pressures. Switching gross margins in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 continued to decline on a year-over-year basis as we transition products at the high-end of the portfolio. Our public sector business continued to experience sales declines in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. We are seeing a continued broad focus on spending reductions by our customers in the public sector across most of our geographic segments. Net product sales to the public sector declined 6% overall on a year-over-year basis during the third quarter of fiscal 2011, reflecting declines in each of our geographic segments, except for Emerging Markets where sales were flat. In response, we are taking very specific and immediate steps to address our challenges. In April 2011, we initiated the first of what we expect to be a number of key, targeted actions intended to accomplish the following: to simplify and focus our organization and operating model; to align our cost structure given transitions in the marketplace; to divest or exit underperforming operations; and to deliver value to our shareholders. We are taking these actions to align our business based on five company priorities: leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services) which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. These actions involve realigning and restructuring our consumer business, most notably exiting our Flip Video cameras product line. In connection with the consumer restructuring activities, we incurred charges of approximately $150 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and will incur additional charges in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. We also announced our intent to realign our sales, services, and engineering organizations in order to simplify our operating model and focus on our key areas of growth. We expect to complete this realignment in fiscal 2012. As part of simplifying our operating model, we intend to consolidate our four geographic operating segments into three geographic operating segments, beginning in fiscal 2012. We plan to also undertake certain cost control initiatives, such as a voluntary early retirement program, further workforce reductions and other restructuring activities. We expect to recognize a pretax charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 of between $0.5 billion and $1.1 billion in connection with the voluntary early retirement program, which amounts will be paid in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. At this time we cannot quantify the amount of further restructuring charges that we expect to recognize in future periods, as we are in the process of evaluating these activities. We anticipate that our total expense reduction actions will reduce our annualized operating expense run rate by approximately $1 billion, with the fourth quarter fiscal 2011 operating expenses as our base. We anticipate achieving this annualized run rate reduction target within fiscal 2012. While we experienced the challenges outlined above, we did experience several positive trends during the third quarter of fiscal 2011. We had strong year-over-year growth in our enterprise market (excluding the public sector) and in our commercial market. Positive aspects of our results for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 also included revenue growth in New Products of 15%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, with strong growth of 39% in collaboration (which includes the impact of the Tandberg ASA (Tandberg) acquisition completed at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2010) and 31% in data center, both key strategic areas for us. The Emerging Markets segment experienced revenue growth of 11% from the prior year period along with increased gross margin. For the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared to the prior year period, revenue increased 14% in services. In light of all of the factors described above, we expect that our revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 will be relatively flat compared to the prior year period, which represents lower revenue levels than we had previously anticipated at the beginning of fiscal 2011. We also expect our total gross margin, excluding the effects of restructuring activities, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 to be slightly lower than what we experienced in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. In addition, as many of our headcount-related investments were based on projections of higher revenue than we now expect to achieve, and it will take time for the cost savings from our announced restructuring activities and voluntary early retirement program to take effect, we expect that operating expenses as a percentage of revenue will increase on a year-over-year basis. We also expect that operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 will likely continue to decline on a year-over-year basis. 40 Table of Contents Strategy and Focus Areas In May 2011, as discussed above, we announced a plan, to be implemented primarily in fiscal 2012, to realign our sales, services and engineering organizations in order to simplify our operating model and focus on our key company priorities, which include leadership in our core routing, switching and associated services, including security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. We continue to seek to expand our share of our customers information technology spending. We will endeavor to achieve this objective by focusing on our core networking capabilities. We seek to capitalize on market transitions. Market transitions on which we are focusing primary attention include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, networked Web 2.0 technologies and the transition from Internet Protocol Version 4 to Internet Protocol Version 6. For example, a market in which a significant market transition is under way is the enterprise data center market, where a transition to virtualization / the cloud is under way. We believe the market is at an inflection point, as awareness grows that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We further believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows: Virtualization : refers to the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network. The cloud : refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software applications, are no longer tethered to a users physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user on demand as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously. This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions. The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing, and we expect there will be a new class of very large, well-financed, and aggressive competitors, each bringing its own new class of products to address this new market. However, with respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers. Other market transitions on which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the increased role of video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads, appear to be evolving even more quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, as customers evolve their communications and business models. We are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers, and our fiscal 2010 acquisition of Tandberg is an example of our increased emphasis on the video market segment. We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in the past in addressing complementary markets in the communications and information technology industry will be adaptable to other markets. An example of a market where we aim to apply this approach is mobility where growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be delivered on such devices. Our fiscal 2010 acquisition of Starent Networks, Corp. (Starent) reflects our recognition of the significance of this market transition and our intent to offer solutions that help expand IP network load capabilities for mobile devices. We are currently undergoing product transitions with higher price performance and architectural advantages versus both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth across these product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business conditions and therefore may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. However, we believe that the introduction of these new products may continue to impact product gross margins. 41 Table of Contents Revenue Three months ended April 30, 2011 compared with three months ended May 1, 2010 Total revenue increased by 5%. Within total revenue, net product revenue increased 3% and net service revenue increased 14%. The revenue increase for the period was in part the result of revenue from our acquisition of Tandberg, which was completed at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2010. With regard to our geographic segment performance, net revenue increased 4% in the United States and Canada segment, 4% in our European Markets segment, 11% in our Emerging Markets segment, and 3% in our Asia Pacific Markets segment. Customer market product revenue in order of percentage growth consisted of increases in our commercial market and service product markets, with a decline in our enterprise market including the public sector. Our consumer market experienced a significant revenue decline and we are currently restructuring and exiting portions of our consumer business. The 3% increase in product revenue was driven primarily by growth in our New Products category which increased 15%, as well as a 7% revenue increase in our Router product category. The increase in New Products was led by solid subcategory revenue growth as follows: 31% in data center, 39% in collaboration, and 32% in wireless. The increase in the collaboration subcategory includes the revenue from our acquisition of Tandberg, which was completed at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2010, and the increase in the data center subcategory was a result of strong demand for our data center products. Revenue growth in our Routers product category was a result of growth in the high-end router product family offerings. We had a revenue decline of 9% in our Switches product category, with declines in both our modular and fixed-configuration product offerings. The decline in Switches revenue was primarily due to the number of product transitions taking place in this product category, and also competitive pressures. The net service revenue increase was experienced across the technical support services and advanced services and other categories, with revenue increases of approximately 12% and approximately 19%, respectively. For further details see our Results of Operations discussion beginning on page 49. Nine months ended April 30, 2011 compared with nine months ended May 1, 2010 Total revenue increased by 10%. Within total revenue, net product revenue increased 8% and net service revenue increased 15%. With regard to our geographic segment performance, net revenue increased 8% in the United States and Canada segment, 8% in our European Markets segment, 18% in our Emerging Markets segment, and 10% in our Asia Pacific Markets segment. Customer market revenue in order of percentage growth consisted of increases in our commercial market, enterprise market, and service provider market. Our consumer market experienced a large revenue decline. The 8% increase in product revenue was driven by growth across each of our product categories. In particular, our New Products category experienced a revenue increase of 17%, primarily as a result of the acquisition of Tandberg, which was completed at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2010. The increase was led by subcategory revenue growth of 40% in collaboration and revenue growth of 49% in data center. We experienced revenue increases in our Routers products category of 8%, principally as a result of strength in the high-end router product offerings. We had revenue growth of 1% in our Switches product category, with single-digit revenue growth in fixed-configuration switching products offsetting a revenue decline in modular switches. The net service revenue increase was experienced across the technical support services and advanced services and other categories with revenue increases of approximately 12% and approximately 23%, respectively. For further details see our Results of Operations discussion beginning on page 49. Gross Margin Three months ended April 30, 2011 compared with three months ended May 1, 2010 Our gross margin percentage decreased by approximately 2.6 percentage points. Within this total gross margin change, product gross margin declined by 3.9 percentage points while service gross margin increased by 2.7 percentage points. The decrease in our product gross margin percentage was a result of higher sales discounts and unfavorable product pricing, unfavorable product mix, and restructuring and other charges. Partially offsetting these decreases were lower overall manufacturing costs and higher shipment volume. The increase in our service gross margin was due to increased volume, partially offset by increased costs and unfavorable mix impacts. For further details see our Results of Operations discussion beginning on page 49. We expect our total gross margin, excluding the effects of restructuring activities, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 to be slightly lower than what we experienced for the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Our gross margins in the future could be adversely impacted by, among other factors, economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions, our movement into market adjacencies, and the geographic mix of our revenue. Nine months ended April 30, 2011 compared with nine months ended May 1, 2010 Our gross margin percentage decreased by approximately 3.1 percentage points. Within this total gross margin change, product gross margin declined by 4.1 percentage points while service gross margin increased by 1.0 percentage points. The decrease in our product gross margin percentage was a result of higher sales discounts and unfavorable product pricing, unfavorable product mix, and restructuring and other charges. Additionally, increased amortization expense and impairment charges from purchased intangible assets contributed to the decline in product gross margin. Partially offsetting these decreases were lower overall manufacturing costs and higher shipment volume. The increase in our service gross margin was due to increased volume, partially offset by increased costs and unfavorable mix impacts. For further details see our Results of Operations discussion beginning on page 49. 42 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Three months ended April 30, 2011 compared with three months ended May 1, 2010 Operating expenses increased by 4.5% while decreasing by 0.1 percentage point as a percentage of revenue. The primary driver of the increase were higher headcount-related expenses, higher spending on engineering programs, and restructuring and other charges. Partially offsetting the increase was the impact from the current period containing one less week compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2010. Nine months ended April 30, 2011 compared with nine months ended May 1, 2010 Operating expenses increased by 12% while increasing by 0.9 percentage points as a percentage of revenue. Higher headcount-related expenses primarily contributed to the increase along with higher spending on engineering programs. Additionally, increased expense from share-based compensation, purchased intangible asset amortization and impairments, restructuring charges and other, and other expenses from recent acquisitions also contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting the increase was the impact from the current period containing one less week compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2010. Other Key Financial Measures We generated cash flows from operations of $3.0 billion and $7.3 billion during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments, were $43.4 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2011, compared with $39.9 billion at the end of fiscal 2010. Our deferred revenue at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2011 was $11.7 billion, compared with $11.1 billion at the end of fiscal 2010. We repurchased 54 million shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase program for $1.0 billion during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and 256 million shares of our common stock for $5.3 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2011. As of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2011, the remaining authorized repurchase amount under this program was $11.7 billion with no termination date. We also declared and paid dividends of $329 million to our shareholders, representing the first dividend in our companys history. Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO) at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2011 was 37 days, compared with 41 days at the end of fiscal 2010. Our inventory balance was $1.4 billion at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2011, compared with $1.3 billion at the end of fiscal 2010. Annualized inventory turns were 11.1 in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and were 12.6 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2010, as updated where applicable in Note 2 herein, describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria have been met: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists. Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Delivery has occurred. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery. The fee is fixed or determinable. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. Collectibility is reasonably assured. We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. 43 Table of Contents In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include services, the multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine the unit of accounting, and the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the relative selling price. Revenue is recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for each unit of accounting are met. The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our valuation of the units of accounting for the multiple deliverables. According to the accounting guidance prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition , we use vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) for each of those units, when available. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median selling price. VSOE exists across most of our product and service offerings. In certain limited circumstances when VSOE does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy to applicable multiple-deliverable arrangements. Under the selling price hierarchy, third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) will be considered if VSOE does not exist, and estimated selling price (ESP) will be used if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Generally, we are not able to determine TPE because our go-to-market strategy differs from that of others in our markets, and the extent of customization varies among comparable products or services from our peers. In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting. Some of our sales arrangements have multiple deliverables containing software and related software support components. Such sale arrangements are subject to the accounting guidance in ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition. As our business and offerings evolve over time, our pricing practices may be required to be modified accordingly, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and ESP in subsequent periods. There were no material impacts during the quarter nor do we currently expect a material impact in the next twelve months on our revenue recognition due to any changes in our VSOE, TPE, or ESP. Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements, service, support, and other factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our deferred revenue for products as of April 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010 was $3.7 billion for both periods. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which typically is from one to three years. Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. Our deferred revenue for services was $8.0 billion and $7.4 billion as of April 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, respectively. We make sales to distributors and retail partners and generally recognize revenue based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. If actual credits received by our distributors and retail partners under these programs were to deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected. Allowances for Receivables and Sales Returns The allowances for receivables were as follows (in millions, except percentages): April 30, 2011 July 31, 2010 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 200 $ 235 Percentage of gross accounts receivable 4.3 % 4.6 % Allowance for credit losslease receivables $ 236 $ 207 Percentage of gross lease receivables 8.2 % 8.6 % Allowance for credit lossloan receivables $ 111 $ 73 Percentage of gross loan receivables 8.1 % 5.8 % 44 Table of Contents The allowances are based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of these allowances by considering internal factors such as historical experience, credit quality, and age of the receivable balances as well as external factors such as economic conditions that may affect a customers ability to pay, historical default rates, and long-term historical loss rates published by credit-rating agencies. We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances. In addition, we evaluate the credit quality of our financing receivables and any associated allowance for credit loss by applying the relevant loss factors based on our internal credit risk rating for the respective financing receivables, disaggregated by segment and class. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Determination of loss factors associated with internal credit risk ratings is complex and subjective. Our ongoing consideration of all these factors could result in an increase in our allowance for credit loss in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. Similarly, if a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other circumstances arise, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue. Both accounts receivable and financing receivables are charged off at the point when they are considered uncollectible. The decline in our allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of our gross accounts receivable was primarily due to the charge-off of certain uncollectible receivables that had been fully reserved. A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of April 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010 was $106 million and $90 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable. If the actual future returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected. Inventory Valuation and Liability for Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers Our inventory balance was $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion as of April 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, respectively. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of April 30, 2011, the liability for these purchase commitments was $154 million, compared with $135 million as of July 31, 2010, and was included in other current liabilities. Our provision for inventory was $174 million and $56 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $58 million and $7 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increases in the provisions for inventory and purchase commitments were due primarily to charges recorded in connection with restructuring related to our consumer business. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, and gross margin could be adversely affected. We regularly evaluate our exposure for inventory write-downs and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence, particularly in light of current macroeconomic uncertainties and conditions and the resulting potential for changes in future demand forecast. Warranty Costs The liability for product warranties, included in other current liabilities, was $334 million as of April 30, 2011, compared with $360 million as of July 31, 2010. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overhead. Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities. 45 Table of Contents The provision for product warranties issued during the first nine months of fiscal 2011 and 2010 was $330 million and $342 million, respectively. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our gross margin could be adversely affected. Share-Based Compensation Expense Total share-based compensation expense for the nine months ended April 30, 2011 and May 1, 2010 was $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. The determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. For employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights, these variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, risk-free interest rate, and expected dividends as of the grant date. For employee stock options, we used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, we used the implied volatility for traded options (with lives corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on our stock. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The valuation of employee stock options is also impacted by kurtosis, and skewness, which are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns, and the actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Because share-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. Fair Value Measurements Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $36.7 billion as of April 30, 2011 and $35.3 billion as of July 31, 2010. Our fixed income investment portfolio as of April 30, 2011 consisted primarily of the highest quality investment grade securities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As described more fully in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, a valuation hierarchy is based on the level of independent, objective evidence available regarding the value of the investments. It encompasses three classes of investments: Level 1 consists of securities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical securities; Level 2 consists of securities for which observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs are used, such as prices for similar securities in active markets or for identical securities in less active markets and model-derived valuations for which the variables are derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data; and Level 3 consists of securities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value. Our Level 2 securities are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments, nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data, or discounted cash flow techniques in limited circumstances. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from independent pricing vendors, quoted market prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate fair value of our assets and liabilities. We use such pricing data as the primary input, to which we have not made any material adjustments during the periods presented, to make our assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of our investment portfolio. We are ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates. The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to their estimate of fair value. The assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and assumptions affected by levels of subjectivity and judgment was material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of April 30, 2011. Level 3 assets do not represent a significant portion of our total investment portfolio as of April 30, 2011. Other-Than-Temporary Impairments We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. 46 Table of Contents If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described above, the entire difference between the amortized cost basis and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit losses, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral. For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. There were no impairment charges on investments in fixed income securities and publicly traded equity securities that were recognized in earnings in the first nine months of fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described above could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of April 30, 2011, our investments in privately held companies were $837 million, compared with $756 million as of July 31, 2010, and were included in other assets. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment and will make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $6 million and $17 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Asset Impairments Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as the excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including any contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. Effective in fiscal 2010, the assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, in order to achieve operational efficiencies, we combined our Asia Pacific and Japan operations. Following this change, our business is organized in the following four geographic segments: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, and Asia Pacific Markets. As a result, the goodwill of the former Asia Pacific and Japan geographic segments as of July 31, 2010 was allocated to the combined segment Asia Pacific Markets. The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of April 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010 was $16.9 billion and $16.7 billion, respectively. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill in the first nine months of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Our impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets were $164 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 and were primarily due to declines in estimated fair value as a result of reductions in expected future cash flows associated with certain of our consumer products. For the first nine months of fiscal 2010 our impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets were $13 million. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. 47 Table of Contents Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, research and development (R&D) tax credits, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, international realignments, and transfer pricing adjustments. Our effective tax rate was 18.0% and 8.8% in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. Our effective tax rate was 17.3% and 16.6% for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R&D cost-sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Loss Contingencies We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 48 Table of Contents Results of Operations The third quarter of fiscal 2011 had 13 weeks, compared with 14 weeks in the third quarter of fiscal 2010; thus our operating results for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2011 reflect one less week compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2010. Net Sales The following table presents the breakdown of net sales between product and service revenue (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: Product $ 8,669 $ 8,436 $ 233 2.8 % $ 25,605 $ 23,612 $ 1,993 8.4 % Service 2,197 1,932 265 13.7 % 6,418 5,592 826 14.8 % Total $ 10,866 $ 10,368 $ 498 4.8 % $ 32,023 $ 29,204 $ 2,819 9.7 % We manage our business primarily on a geographic basis, based on four geographic segments. Our net sales, which include product and service revenue, for each segment are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: United States and Canada $ 5,785 $ 5,555 $ 230 4.1 % $ 17,209 $ 15,869 $ 1,340 8.4 % Percentage of net sales 53.2 % 53.6 % 53.7 % 54.3 % European Markets 2,227 2,134 93 4.4 % 6,357 5,895 462 7.8 % Percentage of net sales 20.5 % 20.6 % 19.9 % 20.2 % Emerging Markets 1,271 1,140 131 11.5 % 3,674 3,107 567 18.2 % Percentage of net sales 11.7 % 11.0 % 11.5 % 10.6 % Asia Pacific Markets 1,583 1,539 44 2.9 % 4,783 4,333 450 10.4 % Percentage of net sales 14.6 % 14.8 % 14.9 % 14.9 % Total $ 10,866 $ 10,368 $ 498 4.8 % $ 32,023 $ 29,204 $ 2,819 9.7 % For the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, net sales increased by 5%, with sales increases experienced across our four geographic segments. Within total sales growth, net product sales increased by 3% while service revenue increased by 14%. Service revenue increased year over year across each of our geographic segments and product revenue experienced growth across all of our geographic segments, except Asia Pacific where growth was flat year-over-year. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010, net sales increased by 10%, with sales increases experienced across our four geographic segments. Within total sales growth, net product sales increased by 8% while service revenue increased by 15%. Our product and service revenue both reflected sales growth across each of our geographic segments. We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on sales has not been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our sales to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our sales are influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations. In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, net sales by segment in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple-element arrangements; the mix of financing arrangements provided to our channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition, which in turn would impact the net sales of the relevant segment. 49 Table of Contents Net Product Sales by Segment The following table presents the breakdown of net product sales by segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: United States and Canada $ 4,427 $ 4,329 $ 98 2.3 % $ 13,205 $ 12,317 $ 888 7.2 % Percentage of net product sales 51.1 % 51.3 % 51.6 % 52.2 % European Markets 1,878 1,811 67 3.7 % 5,375 4,992 383 7.7 % Percentage of net product sales 21.7 % 21.5 % 20.9 % 21.1 % Emerging Markets 1,066 997 69 6.9 % 3,093 2,655 438 16.5 % Percentage of net product sales 12.3 % 11.8 % 12.1 % 11.2 % Asia Pacific Markets 1,298 1,299 (1 ) (0.1 )% 3,932 3,648 284 7.8 % Percentage of net product sales 14.9 % 15.4 % 15.4 % 15.5 % Total $ 8,669 $ 8,436 $ 233 2.8 % $ 25,605 $ 23,612 $ 1,993 8.4 % United States and Canada Net product sales in the United States and Canada segment for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 increased by 2% compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010. Net product sales were flat in the United States and increased by 42% in Canada. Customer market revenue in order of percentage growth consisted of increases in our commercial market, service provider, and enterprise market, partially offset by a decline in our consumer market. Within the enterprise market, net product sales to the public sector declined, primarily due to a decrease in sales to state and local governments and K-12 education, as compared to the prior year period, while sales to the private sector within the enterprise market reflected strong growth. The challenges we have experienced in fiscal 2011, in the public sector market within our enterprise market, and in the cable provider portion of the service provider market may continue over the remainder of fiscal 2011 and into fiscal 2012. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010, net product sales in the United States and Canada segment increased by 7%. Net product sales increased 5% in the United States and increased 37% in Canada. The increase in net product sales was across most of our customer markets in the United States and Canada segment, led by our commercial market followed by net product sales growth in the enterprise and service provider markets. Net product sales in the consumer market declined. Within the enterprise market net product sales to the public sector increased due to an increase in sales to the U.S. federal government. European Markets Net product sales in the European Markets segment during the third quarter of fiscal 2011 increased by 4% compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010. In terms of customer market sales growth, we experienced increases in the service provider and commercial markets and declines in the consumer and enterprise markets as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2010. Within the sales decline in the enterprise market, the primary contributor was the decline in the public sector market, which reflects measures being taken by our public sector customers in parts of the region to reduce spending. From a country perspective, for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, net product sales increased by approximately 15% in Germany, 14% in France, and 4% in the United Kingdom while net product sales in Italy declined 7%. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010, net product sales in the European Markets segment increased by 8%. The increase in net product sales in the European Markets segment was across all customer markets and led by increased sales in the service provider, enterprise, and commercial markets. Sales growth to the consumer market also increased for the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the prior year period. Emerging Markets For the third quarter of fiscal 2011, net product sales in the Emerging Markets segment increased 7% compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Customer market sales growth in order of percentage growth consisted of increases in the commercial and service provider markets. These increases were partially offset by sales declines in the consumer and enterprise markets. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by approximately 81% in Russia, 18% in Mexico, and 5% in Brazil. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010, net product sales in the Emerging Markets segment increased by 16%. The net product sales increase was led by sales growth in the commercial market, followed by sales increases in the enterprise and service provider markets. Net product sales in the consumer market declined for the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the prior year period. 50 Table of Contents Asia Pacific Markets Net product sales were flat in the Asia Pacific Markets segment in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010, as strong sales growth in our commercial market was offset by sales declines in the enterprise, service provider, and consumer markets. From a country perspective, net product sales increased approximately 3% in Japan while declining in China and India by 7% and 2%, respectively. Consistent with the second quarter of fiscal 2011, within our enterprise market we again saw some weakness in the public sector, and we expect continued challenges in this customer market. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010, net product sales in our Asia Pacific Markets segment increased by 8%. The increase was attributable to sales growth in the commercial and enterprise markets. Net product sales in the service provider and consumer markets declined for the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the prior year period. Net Product Sales by Groups of Similar Products In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also evaluate sales of similar products and to specific customer markets for various purposes. Effective at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we regrouped our presentation of products and technologies formerly grouped as either Advanced Technologies or Other products, with our new product categories New Products and Other. Our New Products category replaces Advanced Technologies and includes some products that had previously been in the category called Other. Our New Products category consists of the following sub-categories: video connected home (networked home, Flip Video cameras and related products, video systems, and cable products), collaboration (unified communications and Cisco TelePresence systems), security, wireless, and data center (application networking services, storage, and Cisco Unified Computing System products). The Other product category consists primarily of optical networking products and emerging technologies. The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: Routers $ 1,860 $ 1,741 $ 119 6.8 % $ 5,367 $ 4,965 $ 402 8.1 % Percentage of net product sales 21.5 % 20.6 % 21.0 % 21.0 % Switches 3,299 3,639 (340 ) (9.3 )% 9,982 9,871 111 1.1 % Percentage of net product sales 38.1 % 43.1 % 39.0 % 41.8 % New Products 3,262 2,832 430 15.2 % 9,568 8,149 1,419 17.4 % Percentage of net product sales 37.6 % 33.6 % 37.4 % 34.5 % Other 248 224 24 10.7 % 688 627 61 9.7 % Percentage of net product sales 2.8 % 2.7 % 2.6 % 2.7 % Total $ 8,669 $ 8,436 $ 233 2.8 % $ 25,605 $ 23,612 $ 1,993 8.4 % Routers We categorize our routers primarily as high-end, midrange, and low-end routers. The growth in sales of our Routers product category in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, was driven by a 12% or $141 million increase in sales of our high-end routers. Within high-end router products, the increase was driven by sales of the Cisco ASR 5000 products from our acquisition of Starent, and higher sales of the Cisco ASR 9000 and ASR 1000 products. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of our Cisco 12000 Series Routers and Cisco 7600 Series Routers. Our sales of low-end routers decreased by 4% or $11 million while sales of our midrange routers declined by 2% or $7 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2010. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010, growth in sales of our Routers product category was driven by an 11% or $366 million increase in sales of our high-end routers. Within high-end router products, the increase was driven by Cisco ASR 5000 products from our acquisition of Starent, and higher sales of the Cisco ASR 1000 and Cisco ASR 9000 products. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Cisco 12000 Series Routers, and Cisco 7600 Series Routers. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011, sales of midrange and low-end routers increased by 1% or $9 million and 4% or $34 million, respectively, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010. Switches The decrease in net product sales in our Switches product category in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2010 was primarily due to continuing transitions taking place in our product portfolio and the impact of increased competitive pressures. This transition environment resulted in lower sales of modular and LAN fixed-configuration switches of approximately 15% or $253 million and 5% or $87 million, respectively, compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2010. The decrease in sales of modular switches was primarily due to decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 and 4500 Series Switches partially offset by increased sales of Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches, 51 Table of Contents as part of the product transition. The decrease in LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 3560 and 3750 Series Switches, partially offset by increased sales of Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series Switches, and Cisco Nexus 2000 and 5000 Series Switches, also as part of the product transition. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010, the slight increase in net product sales in our Switches product category was due primarily to higher sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches offsetting lower sales of modular switches. Sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches increased 3% or $150 million while sales of modular switches decreased 1% or $38 million. The increase in LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to increased sales of Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series Switches, and Cisco Nexus 2000 and 5000 Series Switches, partially offset by decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 3560 and 3750 Series Switches. The decrease in sales of modular switches was primarily due to decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switches partially offset by increased sales of Cisco Nexus 7000 and Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Switches. New Products In the third quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, net product sales within our New Products category increased by 15% to $3.3 billion. This increase in net product sales was due to the following: Sales of collaboration products increased by 39% or $294 million, primarily due to the inclusion of Tandberg sales within our Cisco TelePresence systems products following our acquisition of Tandberg, completed at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2010, and a 6% or $41 million increase in sales of unified communications products. Sales of data center products increased by 31% or $91 million, with sales of Cisco Unified Computing System products growing by over 240% or $124 million due to new customer adoption. Partially offsetting the increase was a 10% or $14 million decline in storage sales and a 15% or $15 million decline in sales of application networking services products. Sales of wireless products increased by 32% or $87 million, which was primarily due to the customer adoption of and migration to the Cisco Unified Wireless Network architecture. Sales of video connected home products (consisting of virtual home and service provider video products) decreased by 5% or $51 million, due to a 33% decline in sales of virtual home products as a result of a 27% or $42 million decline in networked home products and a 46% or $34 million decline in sales of Flip Video cameras. Sales of service provider video products increased 3% or $25 million due to increased sales of cable and cable modem products of 18% or $38 million and 68% or $39 million, respectively, partially offset by lower sales of video systems which decreased by 7% or by $42 million. Sales of other service provider video products declined by $10 million. We continue to experience weakness in our video systems business momentum, specifically as it pertains to cable providers, and in particular traditional cable set-top boxes, in the United States and Canada. We expect that these challenges may continue over several quarters. Sales of security products increased by 2% or $9 million due to increased sales of our web and email security products. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010, net product sales within our New Products category increased by 17% to $9.6 billion. The increase in net product sales was due to the following: Sales of collaboration products increased by 40% or $865 million, primarily due to the inclusion of Tandberg sales within our Cisco TelePresence systems products following our acquisition of Tandberg, completed at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2010, and a 3% increase in sales of unified communications products, primarily IP phones and collaborative web-based offerings. Sales of data center products increased by 49% or $386 million, due to a combination of increased sales of Cisco Unified Computing System products and storage sales, partially offset by slightly lower sales of application networking services products. Sales of wireless products increased by 24% or $200 million, which was primarily due to customer adoption of and migration to the Cisco Unified Wireless Network architecture. Sales of video connected home products were flat. Increased sales of service provider video products, as a result of increases in cable and cable modem products of 19% and 54%, respectively, were offset by a sales decline in video systems of 2%. Sales of virtual home products declined due to a decline of 29% in networked home products partially offset by an increase in sales of Flip Video cameras of $11 million. Sales of security products decreased by 3% or $33 million. Our decreased sales of security products were the result of lower sales of module and line cards related to our routers and LAN switches, partially offset by increased sales of our web and email security products. 52 Table of Contents Other Product Revenue The increase in other product revenue during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011 as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2010 was primarily due to increases of 12% and 14%, respectively, in sales of optical networking products. Net Service Sales by Segment Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net service sales: United States and Canada $ 1,358 $ 1,226 $ 132 10.8 % $ 4,004 $ 3,552 $ 452 12.7 % Percentage of net service sales 61.8 % 63.5 % 62.4 % 63.5 % European Markets 349 323 26 8.0 % 982 903 79 8.7 % Percentage of net service sales 15.9 % 16.7 % 15.3 % 16.2 % Emerging Markets 205 143 62 43.4 % 581 452 129 28.5 % Percentage of net service sales 9.3 % 7.4 % 9.1 % 8.1 % Asia Pacific Markets 285 240 45 18.8 % 851 685 166 24.2 % Percentage of net service sales 13.0 % 12.4 % 13.2 % 12.2 % Total $ 2,197 $ 1,932 $ 265 13.7 % $ 6,418 $ 5,592 $ 826 14.8 % Net service revenue increased across all of our geographic segments in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2010, with the Emerging Markets reporting solid revenue growth due to strong conversion rates. The increase in total service revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was due to approximately 12% growth from technical support services as well as an approximately 19% increase in revenue from advanced services, which relates to consulting support services for specific network needs. The increase in total service revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2010 was due to 12% growth from technical support services as well as a 23% increase in revenue from advanced services and other. In the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2010, technical support service revenue increased across all of our geographic segments with strong growth in the Asia Pacific Markets, Emerging Markets, and United States and Canada segments. Renewals and technical support service contract initiations associated with recent product sales have resulted in a new installed base of equipment being serviced, which was the primary driver for these increases. In the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2010, we experienced revenue growth in advanced services across each of our geographic segments with particular strength in our Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific Markets segments, followed by growth in our European Markets, and United States and Canada segments. Total service revenue growth for both 2011 periods also benefited from incremental revenue from our acquisitions during fiscal 2010 of Tandberg and Starent. 53 Table of Contents Gross Margin The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended Amount Percentage Amount Percentage April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Gross margin: Product $ 5,232 $ 5,426 60.4 % 64.3 % $ 15,537 $ 15,301 60.7 % 64.8 % Service 1,427 1,204 65.0 % 62.3 % 4,138 3,549 64.5 % 63.5 % Total $ 6,659 $ 6,630 61.3 % 63.9 % $ 19,675 $ 18,850 61.4 % 64.5 % Product Gross Margin The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the decrease in product gross margin for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011: PRODUCT GROSS MARGIN PERCENTAGE Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended Fiscal 2010 64.3 % 64.8 % Sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing (3.0 )% (3.3 )% Mix of products sold (1.5 )% (1.2 )% Restructuring and other charges (1.3 )% (0.4 )% Amortization of purchased intangible assets and share-based compensation (0.4 )% (0.8 )% Shipment volume, net of certain variable costs 0.2 % 0.5 % Overall manufacturing costs 2.1 % 1.1 % Fiscal 2011 60.4 % 60.7 % Three months ended April 30, 2011 compared with three months ended May 1, 2010 Product gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 decreased by 3.9 percentage points due primarily to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable product pricing. These factors impacted most of our customer markets and all of our geographic segments. Additionally, our product gross margin continued to be negatively impacted by the shift in the mix of products sold as a result of revenue declines in our higher margin switching products coupled with revenue increases from our Cisco Unified Computing System products, which have lower gross margins. Our switching gross margins have been under pressure as we transition our products at the high-end of the portfolio. Restructuring charges related to our consumer business added to the decline in product gross margin along with higher amortization of purchased intangible assets. These negative factors were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs and slightly higher shipment volume. The lower overall manufacturing costs were in part due to favorable component pricing, continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations and value engineering. Additionally, our overall manufacturing costs benefited by approximately 0.8 percentage points due to the collective impact of certain items that we do not expect to recur in future periods, which included the refinement of our estimation related to warranty and positive impacts from certain financing arrangements. We expect our total gross margin (excluding the effects of restructuring activities) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 to be slightly lower than what we experienced in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Our future gross margins could be impacted by our product mix and transitions and by 54 Table of Contents our further movement into market adjacencies that have lower gross margins, such as Cisco Unified Computing System products. Our gross margins may also be impacted by the geographic mix of our revenue or by increased sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing, which may be attributable to competitive factors. In recent periods our manufacturing-related costs have been negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. If any of the preceding factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods, our product and service gross margins could decline. Nine months ended April 30, 2011 compared with nine months ended May 1, 2010 Product gross margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 decreased by 4.1 percentage points primarily due to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable product pricing. Additionally, our product gross margin was negatively impacted by the shift in the mix of products sold as a result of revenue declines in our higher margin switching products coupled with revenue increases from our Cisco Unified Computing System products. Higher year-over-year impairment charges related to acquisition-related intangibles and restructuring and other charges, both primarily in the consumer business added to the decline in our product gross margin percentage. These negative factors were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs and slightly higher shipment volume. The lower overall manufacturing costs were in part due to favorable component pricing, continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations and value engineering. Service Gross Margin Our service gross margin percentage increased by 2.7 percentage points in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and 1.0 percentage points for the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year. The increases were primarily due to higher sales volume for both fiscal 2011 periods. Partially offsetting the volume increases were unfavorable mix impacts, primarily due to advanced services representing a higher proportion of service revenue in both fiscal 2011 periods relative to the comparable prior year periods. For the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, gross margin in technical support services increased, primarily as a result of increased sales volume which more than offset increased support service delivery costs, particularly from outside services. We had an increase in our advanced services gross margin, primarily due to strong volume growth partially offset by higher delivery team costs, which were partially headcount related. Our revenue from advanced services may increase to a higher proportion of total service revenue due to our continued focus on providing comprehensive support to our customers networking devices, applications, and infrastructures. Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract initiations in our renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and resources to support the overall service portion of our business. Another factor is the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services. The following table presents the gross margin for each segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended Amount Percentage Amount Percentage April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Gross margin: United States and Canada $ 3,683 $ 3,596 63.7 % 64.7 % $ 10,919 $ 10,316 63.4 % 65.0 % European Markets 1,452 1,440 65.2 % 67.5 % 4,139 4,008 65.1 % 68.0 % Emerging Markets 817 714 64.3 % 62.6 % 2,287 1,985 62.2 % 63.9 % Asia Pacific Markets 989 1,007 62.5 % 65.4 % 2,999 2,867 62.7 % 66.2 % Segment Total 6,941 6,757 63.9 % 65.2 % 20,344 19,176 63.5 % 65.7 % Unallocated corporate items (1) (282 ) (127 ) (669 ) (326 ) Total $ 6,659 $ 6,630 61.3 % 63.9 % $ 19,675 $ 18,850 61.4 % 64.5 % (1) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization and impairments of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, and other asset impairments and restructurings. We do not allocate these items to gross margin for each segment because management does not include the information in measuring the performance of the operating segments. In the third quarter of fiscal 2011, the gross margin percentage across most of our geographic segments declined compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, primarily due to higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing and unfavorable product mix. Partially offsetting these declines were the impacts from increased shipment volume and lower overall manufacturing costs. For our Emerging 55 Table of Contents Markets segment, the gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 increased from the prior year period due to the combination of shipment volume increases, cost savings and positive impacts from our financing business partially offset by impacts from higher sales discounts and unfavorable mix impacts. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010, the gross margin percentage across all geographic segments declined primarily due to higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing and an unfavorable product mix. Partially offsetting these declines were the impacts from increased shipment volume and lower overall manufacturing costs across all geographic segments. The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions as well as our movement into market adjacencies and could decline if any of the factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods. Factors That May Impact Net Sales and Gross Margin Net product sales may continue to be affected by factors including global economic downturns and related market uncertainty, that have resulted in reduced or cautious spending in our global enterprise, service provider, and commercial markets; changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition, including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix of our customers between service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer. Sales to the service provider market have been and may be in the future characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain products within our New Products category. In addition, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including network design services; and often have acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain of our customers in the Emerging Markets segment also tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, especially in the Emerging Markets segment, which may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. Net product sales may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market; price and product competition in the communications and information technology industry; introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products; adoption of new networking standards; and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers ability to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same quarter. For additional factors that may impact net product sales, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs. In addition, increasing sales to our distributors and retail partners generally result in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue for sales to our distributors and retail partners generally based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs. Product gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including further periods of increased growth of some of our lower margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages; our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost structures, as a result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially those from China; changes in geographic mix of our product sales; the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs, including share-based compensation expense; excess inventory and obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing; effects of value engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and operating plans. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and advanced services; the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals; share-based compensation expense; and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business. 56 Table of Contents Research and Development (R&D), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative (G&A) Expenses R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 1,430 $ 1,411 $ 19 1.3 % $ 4,339 $ 3,882 $ 457 11.8 % Percentage of net sales 13.2 % 13.6 % 13.5 % 13.3 % Sales and marketing 2,446 2,278 168 7.4 % 7,292 6,414 878 13.7 % Percentage of net sales 22.5 % 22.0 % 22.8 % 22.0 % General and administrative 466 479 (13 ) (2.7 )% 1,376 1,355 21 1.5 % Percentage of net sales 4.3 % 4.6 % 4.3 % 4.6 % Total $ 4,342 $ 4,168 $ 174 4.2 % $ 13,007 $ 11,651 $ 1,356 11.6 % Percentage of net sales 40.0 % 40.2 % 40.6 % 39.9 % As noted above, since many of our recent headcount-related investments were based on projections of higher revenue than we currently anticipate for the remainder of fiscal 2011, and it will take time for the cost savings from our announced restructuring activities and voluntary early retirement program to take effect, we expect that operating expenses as a percentage of revenue will increase on a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. The third quarter of fiscal 2011 had 13 weeks, compared with 14 weeks in the third quarter of fiscal 2010: thus our operating results for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2011 reflect one less week compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2010. We anticipate that our expense reduction actions will reduce our annualized operating expense run rate by approximately $1 billion, with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 operating expense as our base. We anticipate achieving this annualized run rate reduction target within fiscal 2012. R&D Expenses The increase in R&D expenses for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2010, was primarily due to higher headcount-related expenses along with higher depreciation and equipment expenditures. The increase in depreciation expense was partially acquisition related. All of our R&D costs are expensed as incurred, and we continue to invest in R&D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, enter into partner relationships, or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R&D. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 increased compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2010 due to an increase of $172 million in sales expenses partially offset by a decrease of $4 million in marketing expenses. The sales expense increase during the period was primarily due to higher headcount-related expenses. Marketing expenses declined for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, as lower consumer advertising spending offset the impacts of increased headcount-related expenses. Sales and marketing expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 increased compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2010 due to an increase of $721 million in sales expenses and an increase of $157 million in marketing expenses. Both the sales expense and the marketing expense components of the category increased during the period due to higher headcount-related expenses, followed by higher outside services costs and increased share-based compensation expense. Additionally, the increase in marketing expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010 resulted from higher advertisement expenses. G&A Expenses G&A expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 decreased compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010, primarily due to the impact of the extra week included in the fiscal 2010 period and lower share-based compensation expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Partially offsetting the expense decline were higher headcount-related expenses and increases in discretionary spending. The increase in G&A expenses in the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2010, was due to higher headcount-related expenses, higher outside services costs, and increased share-based compensation expense. These increases were partially offset by the absence during the first nine months of fiscal 2011 of certain real estate related-charges and non-income tax-related expenses which were included in the first nine months of fiscal 2010. 57 Table of Contents Effect of Foreign Currency In the third quarter of fiscal 2011, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased the combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by $22 million, or approximately 0.5%, compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2010. In the first nine months of fiscal 2011, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased the combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by $27 million, or approximately 0.2%, compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2010. Headcount Our headcount increased by approximately 475 employees in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and approximately 2,700 employees in the first nine months of fiscal 2011. The headcount increase for both periods was attributable to targeted hiring in line with our investment in growth initiatives and to a lesser extent, the impact of acquisitions. We expect our headcount to decrease in the near term as part of targeted cost cutting initiatives, which include an announced voluntary early retirement program and restructuring activities, and due to normal attrition. Share-Based Compensation Expense The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Cost of salesproduct $ 16 $ 16 $ 47 $ 43 Cost of salesservice 44 47 135 121 Share-based compensation expense in cost of sales 60 63 182 164 Research and development 120 129 373 336 Sales and marketing 160 171 491 444 General and administrative 60 71 191 182 Share-based compensation expense in operating expenses 340 371 1,055 962 Total share-based compensation expense $ 400 $ 434 $ 1,237 $ 1,126 Share-based compensation expense decreased for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared to the prior year period, while for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 share-based compensation expense increased. The decrease in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 was due to the impact of the extra week in the prior year period. The increase for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 was due primarily to a change in vesting periods from five to four years for awards granted beginning in fiscal 2009, the timing of annual employee grants, and the overall growth in headcount on a year-over-year basis. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses $ 103 $ 117 $ 419 $ 360 The decrease in the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2010, was due to certain purchased intangible assets having become fully amortized in the past twelve months. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the corresponding prior year period the increase was due to impairment charges included in operating expenses of $92 million in fiscal 2011, partially offset by lower amortization due to certain purchased intangible assets having become fully amortized. The impairment charges were primarily due to declines in estimated fair value as a result of reductions in expected future cash flows associated with certain of our consumer products. For additional information regarding purchased intangibles, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets. 58 Table of Contents Restructuring and Other Charges In the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we incurred restructuring and other charges of approximately $151 million, of which $31 million was recorded to operating expenses with the remainder in cost of sales. These charges were primarily related to the restructuring of our consumer business, including the announced exit from our Flip Video camera product line. During the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we initiated a program to offer on a voluntary basis early retirement benefits to eligible employees in the United States and Canada. We expect to recognize a pretax charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 of between $0.5 billion to $1.1 billion in connection with this program, which amounts are expected to be paid in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. At this time we cannot quantify the amount of further restructuring charges that we expect to recognize in future periods, as we are in the process of evaluating these activities. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest Income and Interest Expense A summary of interest income and interest expense is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Interest income $ 161 $ 158 $ 477 $ 481 Interest expense (153 ) (182 ) (480 ) (454 ) Total $ 8 $ (24 ) $ (3 ) $ 27 Interest income in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, was up slightly as higher interest income related to our financing receivables was substantially offset by the effects of lower average interest rates on our cash and fixed income investments portfolio. Interest income for the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2010, declined due to the effects of lower average interest rates on our portfolio of cash and fixed income investments. The decrease in interest expense for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, as compared to the prior year period, was due to the repayment of debt and issuance of new debt at lower average interest rates including the impact of hedging. The increase in interest expense in the first nine months of fiscal 2011, as compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010, was due to additional interest expense related to our debt issuance in November 2009. Other Income, Net The components of other income, net, are as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 April 30, 2011 May 1, 2010 Net gains on investments in publicly traded equity securities $ 42 $ 36 $ 72 $ 64 Net gains on investments in fixed income securities 7 35 84 55 Total net gains on available-for-sale investments 49 71 156 119 Net (losses) gains on investments in privately held companies (18 ) (8 ) 29 28 Net gains on investments 31 63 185 147 Other gains and (losses), net (19 ) 19 (42 ) (16 ) Other income, net $ 12 $ 82 $ 143 $ 131 The decrease in total net gains on available-for-sale investments in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010 was attributable to lower gains on fixed income securities primarily as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities. The increase in total net gains on available-for-sale investments in the first nine months of fiscal 2011 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010 was primarily attributable to higher gains on fixed income securities as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the unrealized gains and losses on investments. The increase in net losses on investments in privately held companies for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010 was primarily due to higher equity method losses, primarily related to our proportional share of losses related to our VCE joint venture. Impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $1 million and $3 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the first nine months of fiscal 2011 as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2010, lower impairment charges on investments in privately held companies offset the impact of higher equity method losses. Impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $6 million and $17 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. 59 Table of Contents The change in other gains and (losses), net for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011, compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2010, was primarily due to lower gains from customer lease terminations in the fiscal 2011 periods compared with the corresponding fiscal 2010 periods. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 18.0% for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, compared with 8.8% for the third quarter of fiscal 2010. The 9.2 percentage point increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to a nonrecurring tax benefit of $158 million, or 6.6 percentage points, resulting from the affirmation by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit of the U.S. Tax Courts decision in Xilinx, Inc. v. Commissioner, in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. The remaining net 2.6 percentage point increase in the effective tax was largely attributable to a decrease in foreign income taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% partially offset by the retroactive reinstatement of the U.S. federal R&D tax credit in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 17.3% for the first nine months of fiscal 2011, compared with 16.6% for the first nine months of fiscal 2010. The 0.7 percentage point increase in the effective tax rate was attributable to a nonrecurring tax benefit of $158 million, or 2.3 percentage points, resulting from the affirmation by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit of the U.S. Tax Courts decision in Xilinx, Inc. v. Commissioner, in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, partially offset by the retroactive reinstatement of the U.S. federal R&D tax credit in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates. Our provision for income taxes does not include provisions for U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that we intend to reinvest indefinitely in our foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, as well as the impacts of our contractual obligations, other commitments, and the stock repurchase program on our liquidity and capital resources. Balance Sheet and Cash Flows Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions): April 30, 2011 July 31, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,635 $ 4,581 $ 2,054 Fixed income securities 35,312 34,029 1,283 Publicly traded equity securities 1,420 1,251 169 Total $ 43,367 $ 39,861 $ 3,506 The increase in cash and cash equivalents and investments in the first nine months of fiscal 2011 was primarily the result of cash provided by operations of $7.3 billion, proceeds from debt issuance net of repayments of $1.5 billion, and proceeds from common stock issuance of $1.5 billion related to employee stock option exercises and employee stock purchases, partially offset by the repurchase of common stock of $5.6 billion, capital expenditures of $930 million, and cash dividends paid of $329 million. Our total in cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside of the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $38.8 billion and $33.2 billion as of April 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, respectively. The remaining balance held in the United States as of April 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010 was $4.6 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our fixed income portfolio consisting primarily of the highest quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and dividends. 60 Table of Contents We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, deferred revenue, excess tax benefits resulting from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Accounts Receivable, Net The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions) and DSO: April 30, 2011 July 31, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Accounts receivable, net $ 4,413 $ 4,929 $ (516 ) DSO 37 41 (4 ) Our accounts receivable, net declined approximately 10% compared with the end of fiscal 2010. Our DSO as of April 30, 2011 was lower by 4 days compared with the total for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The decline in DSO was a reflection of strong cash collections, and the overall improvement in both product and service billing linearity in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Inventories and Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers The following table summarizes our inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns): April 30, 2011 July 31, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Inventories $ 1,442 $ 1,327 $ 115 Annualized inventory turns 11.1 12.6 (1.5 ) Purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers $ 4,257 $ 4,319 $ (62 ) The decrease in our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers reflects improvement and stabilization in lead times and the mitigation of many of the constraints at our component suppliers that we experienced in fiscal 2010. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase of approximately $300 million, related to the earthquake in Japan and resulting industry wide component supply constraints, as we made commitments to secure our near-term supply needs. While we may experience longer than normal lead times in the future, our lead times to customers improved on nearly all of our products during the first nine months of fiscal 2011 and as of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2011 were within a normal range for nearly all of our products. In the third quarter of fiscal 2011 we announced a restructuring of our consumer business and as a result we lowered inventory levels for our consumer products. We also lowered inventory in certain parts of our cable settop business. Overall, our inventories have decreased from the levels we experienced in the first half of fiscal 2011. Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished goods. Distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners as well as shipments to customers. Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and build-to-stock products. Service-related spares consist of reusable equipment related to our technical support and warranty activities. All inventories are accounted for at the lower of cost or market. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Our purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity. We record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with our valuation method for excess and obsolete inventory. The purchase commitments for inventory are expected to be primarily fulfilled within one year. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels. 61 Table of Contents Financing Receivables and Guarantees We measure our net balance sheet exposure position related to our financing receivables and financing guarantees by reducing the total of gross financing receivables and financing guarantees by the associated allowances for credit loss and deferred revenue. As of April 30, 2011, our net balance sheet exposure position related to financing receivables and financing guarantees was as follows (in millions): April 30, 2011 FINANCING RECEIVABLES FINANCING GUARANTEES TOTAL Lease Receivables Loan Receivables Financed Service Contracts & Other Total Channel Partner End-User Customers Total Gross amount less unearned income $ 2,648 $ 1,373 $ 2,495 $ 6,516 $ 314 $ 276 $ 590 $ 7,106 Allowances for credit loss (236 ) (111 ) (25 ) (372 ) (372 ) Deferred revenue (119 ) (297 ) (1,996 ) (2,412 ) (216 ) (244 ) $ (460 ) (2,872 ) Net balance sheet exposure $ 2,293 $ 965 $ 474 $ 3,732 $ 98 $ 32 $ 130 $ 3,862 Financing Receivables Gross financing receivables increased by 25% compared with the end of fiscal 2010, driven by a 41% increase in gross financed service contracts, a 21% increase in gross lease receivables, and a 10% increase in gross loan receivables. We provide financing to certain end-user customers and channel partners to enable sales of our products, services, and networking solutions. These financing arrangements include leases, financed service contracts, and loans. Arrangements related to leases are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables include sales-type and direct-financing leases. We also provide certain qualified customers financing for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. We expect to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term. Financing Guarantees In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners and, in some cases, we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Historically, our payments under such arrangements have been immaterial. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed. During the first nine months of fiscal 2011, the level of guarantees required by our financing partners decreased, resulting in lower deferred revenue associated with our financing guarantees. Deferred Revenue Related to Financing Receivables and Guarantees The majority of the deferred revenue in the table above is related to financed service contracts. The revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred and included in deferred service revenue. The revenue related to financed service contracts is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed. A portion of the revenue related to lease and loan receivables is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue recognition criteria. 62 Table of Contents Borrowings Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions): April 30, 2011 July 31, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Senior notes: Floating-rate notes, due 2014 $ 1,250 $ $ 1,250 5.25% fixed-rate notes, due 2011 3,000 (3,000 ) 2.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 500 500 1.625% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 2,000 2,000 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2016 3,000 3,000 3.15% fixed-rate notes, due 2017 750 750 4.95% fixed-rate notes, due 2019 2,000 2,000 4.45% fixed-rate notes, due 2020 2,500 2,500 5.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2039 2,000 2,000 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2040 2,000 2,000 Total $ 16,000 $ 15,000 $ 1,000 Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of April 30, 2011. In March 2011, we issued $1.25 billion of senior floating interest rate notes due 2014, $2.0 billion of 1.625% fixed-rate senior notes due 2014, and $750 million of 3.15% fixed-rate senior notes due 2017, for an aggregate principal amount of $4.0 billion. To achieve our interest rate risk management objectives, we entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $2.75 billion designated as fair value hedges of the senior fixed-rate notes included in the March 2011 debt issuance. In effect, these interest rate swaps convert the fixed interest rates of the fixed-rate senior notes to floating interest rates based on LIBOR. The gains and losses related to the changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps substantially offset changes, attributable to market interest rates, in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt. In addition, in February 2011 we repaid $3.0 billion of fixed-rate senior notes upon their maturity. Commercial Paper In the third quarter of fiscal 2011 we established a short-term debt financing program of up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper notes. As of April 30, 2011, we had commercial paper notes of $513 million outstanding under this program. Other Notes and Borrowings Other notes and borrowings include notes and credit facilities with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain of our foreign subsidiaries. The amount of borrowings outstanding under these arrangements was $68 million and $59 million as of April 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, respectively. Credit Facility We have a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of Americas prime rate as announced from time to time or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard & Poors Ratings Services and Moodys Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. We may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $1.9 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to August 15, 2014. As of April 30, 2011, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. 63 Table of Contents Deferred Revenue The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions): April 30, 2011 July 31, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Service $ 8,010 $ 7,428 $ 582 Product 3,689 3,655 34 Total $ 11,699 $ 11,083 $ 616 Reported as: Current $ 7,771 $ 7,664 $ 107 Noncurrent 3,928 3,419 509 Total $ 11,699 $ 11,083 $ 616 The increase in deferred service revenue reflects the impact of new contract initiations, partially offset by the ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue. The increase in deferred product revenue was primarily due to an increase in shipments not having met revenue recognition criteria, partially offset by the timing of cash receipts related to unrecognized revenue from two-tier distributors and lower deferred revenue related to our financing arrangements. Operating Leases We lease office space in several U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites are located in Australia, Belgium, China, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom. We also lease equipment and vehicles. The future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of April 30, 2011 were $1.3 billion. Other Commitments In connection with our business combinations and asset purchases, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or upon continued employment with us of certain employees of acquired entities. During the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we initiated a program to offer, on a voluntary basis, early retirement benefits to eligible employees in the United States and Canada. We expect to take a pretax charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 of between $0.5 billion to $1.1 billion in connection with this program, which amounts are expected to be paid in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately-held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $204 million as of April 30, 2011, compared with $279 million as of July 31, 2010. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and customer financings and have determined that as of April 30, 2011 there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities. In fiscal 2010, Cisco and EMC, together with VMware, formed the Virtual Computing Environment coalition and invested in Acadia Enterprises LLC (Acadia), a joint venture with EMC in which VMware and Intel also invested. During fiscal 2011, the Virtual Computing Environment coalition and Acadia were combined into a single entity and renamed The Virtual Computing Environment Company (VCE). As of April 30, 2011, our cumulative investment in the combined VCE entity was approximately $100 million and we owned approximately 35% of the outstanding equity. We account for our investment in VCE under the equity method, and accordingly our carrying value in VCE has been reduced by $40 million, which reflects our cumulative share of VCEs losses. Over the next 12 months, as VCE scales its operations, we expect that we will make additional investments in VCE and may incur additional losses, in proportion to our ownership percentage. On an ongoing basis, we reassess our investments in privately held companies and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance. As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events. 64 Table of Contents We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the discussion of these financing guarantees under Financing Receivables and Guarantees. Securities Lending We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale investments. These transactions, with a daily balance averaging less than 25% of our total available-for-sale investments portfolio, are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against any collateral losses. As of April 30, 2011 and July 31, 2010, we had no outstanding securities lending transactions. We believe these arrangements do not present a material impact or risk to our liquidity requirements. We did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented. Stock Repurchase Program and Dividends In September 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of April 30, 2011, our Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $82 billion of common stock under this program and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $11.7 billion with no termination date. The stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program, reported based on the trade date, during the first nine months of fiscal 2011 is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts): Nine Months Ended April 30, 2011 Shares Repurchased Weighted- Average Price per Share Amount Repurchased Cumulative balance at July 31, 2010 3,127 $ 20.78 $ 64,982 Repurchase of common stock under the stock repurchase program 256 20.66 5,291 Cumulative balance at April 30, 2011 3,383 $ 20.77 $ 70,273 We declared a quarterly dividend of $0.06 per share on March 17, 2011, which represented a divided payment of $329 million and was subsequently paid on April 20, 2011 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 31, 2011. Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations and ability to access capital markets and committed credit lines will satisfy our liquidity requirements including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal payments on debt, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations through at least the next 12 months. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity, the availability, and our requirements for capital resources. 65 Table of Contents