Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, endeavors, strives, may, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. OVERVIEW We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP) based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide a broad line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are utilized at enterprise businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies and other service providers, commercial businesses, and personal residences. A summary of our results is as follows (in millions, except percentages and per-share amounts): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Variance Revenue $ 12,085 $ 11,876 1.8 % Gross margin percentage 61.3 % 61.0 % 0.3 pts Research and development $ 1,724 $ 1,431 20.5 % Sales and marketing $ 2,411 $ 2,416 (0.2 )% General and administrative $ 515 $ 560 (8.0 )% Total R&D, sales and marketing, general and administrative $ 4,650 $ 4,407 5.5 % Total as a percentage of revenue 38.5 % 37.1 % 1.4 pts Amortization of purchased intangible assets $ 65 $ 122 (46.7 )% Restructuring and other charges $ 237 $ 59 301.7 % Operating income as a percentage of revenue 20.3 % 22.3 % (2.0 ) pts Income tax percentage 21.4 % 20.5 % 0.9 pts Net income $ 1,996 $ 2,092 (4.6 )% Net income as a percentage of revenue 16.5 % 17.6 % (1.1 ) pts Earnings per sharediluted $ 0.37 $ 0.39 (5.1 )% 40 Table of Contents Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended October 27, 2012 In the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , revenue increased 2% as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013.Within the total revenue growth, product revenue increased 1% and service revenue increased 4% . Total gross margin increased by 0.3 percentage points, driven by our cost improvement efforts, as well as some favorability due to the geographic mix of our revenue during the first quarter of fiscal 2014. As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses, collectively, increased by 1.4 percentage points, primarily due to a $257 million charge recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 in connection with our agreement to purchase the remaining interest in Insieme. Operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased by 2.0 percentage points, primarily as a result of the $237 million of restructuring and other charges recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 related to the workforce reduction that we announced in August 2013 as well as the Insieme charge. Diluted earnings per share decreased by 5% from the prior year, a result of both a 5% decrease in net income and also, to a lesser degree, from an increase of 96 million shares in our diluted share count. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , revenue increased by $0.2 billion as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The Americas contributed $0.3 billion of the increase, with higher product revenue in the United States. EMEA added $0.1 billion to the revenue increase, led by revenue growth in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Revenue in our APJC segment declined $0.2 billion driven by revenue declines in most large countries in this region. We encountered weakness in product orders for emerging countries in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , particularly towards the end of the quarter. This weakness was particularly pronounced in emerging countries such as Mexico and Brazil within the Americas, India and China within APJC, and Russia within EMEA and contributed to a level of revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 that was below the expectations we had at the beginning of the quarter. From a customer markets standpoint, in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 we had moderate revenue growth in the public sector and commercial markets, and slower growth in the enterprise market. Revenue increased in the public sector market, led by higher spending from U.S. state and local governments in first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Although we do not believe that the U.S. Federal government shutdown, which occurred during our first quarter of fiscal 2014, had a significant direct impact on our U.S. public sector orders and revenue, we believe it impacts global business confidence and thus our order and revenue momentum more broadly. The service provider customer market experienced a decline in revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and we experienced considerable weakness with respect to our product orders in this customer market. We believe the weakness in orders was primarily driven by: more conservative IT-related capital spending by customers in this segment than we expected; weakness in Japan, emerging countries, and our U.S. service provider market; and a slowing of business in connection with Service Provider Video and certain of our high-end routing products, some of which is associated with new product transitions. From a product category perspective, the product revenue increase of 1% year-over-year was driven primarily by the following: an increase of $0.2 billion from Data Center products and an increase of $0.1 billion from Switching products, partially offset by revenue decreases in various other product categories. Most notably we saw a significant decrease of 14% in revenue from Service Provider Video products, which was driven largely by an over 20% decrease in revenue from cable set-top boxes which constitute a significant portion of this product category. We also experienced weakness with respect to revenue from of our high-end routing products which contributed to a slight decline in revenue from our NGN Routing products. Service revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 increased by 4% and reflected slower growth than what we had experienced in recent quarters, which we believe was attributable to the impact of lower product revenue growth rates in recent periods. In summary, in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 we achieved solid profitability in an inconsistent and mixed global macroeconomic environment despite our lower than expected revenue growth. We continued to experience many of the same challenges we experienced in fiscal 2013 including weakness in parts of the European economy, lower spending in parts of the public sector, a conservative approach to IT-related capital spending by customers, and weakness in emerging countries. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014 we also experienced reduced spending by our service provider customers with the orders much lower than expected, particularly at the end of the quarter. In addition, the challenges we outlined in fiscal 2013 with respect to emerging countries such as China continued and additional emerging countries such as India, Russia, Brazil and Mexico experienced pronounced weakness in orders in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, with the orders also much lower than expected, particularly at the end of the quarter. In both the service provider customer market segment, and in emerging countries, the dynamic business environment suggests that challenges may continue for at least several quarters as issues and factors are identified and addressed. These challenges contributed largely to a decline in product orders on a year-over-year basis for the first quarter of fiscal 2014, and a more significant than expected decline in our product backlog at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2014. As a result of these challenges, and the decline in our business that we began to experience in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we announced that we expected our revenue and earnings per share to decline on a year-over-year basis in the second quarter of fiscal 2014. 41 Table of Contents Strategy and Focus Areas Our focus continues to be on our five foundational priorities : Leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services), which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions Collaboration Data center virtualization and cloud Video Architectures for business transformation We believe that focusing on these priorities best positions us to continue to expand our share of our customers information technology spending. Other Key Financial Measures The following is a summary of our other key financial measures for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 (in millions, except days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO) and annualized inventory turns): October 26, 2013 July 27, 2013 Cash and cash equivalents and investments $ 48,201 $ 50,610 Deferred revenue $ 13,207 $ 13,423 DSO 39 days 40 days Inventories $ 1,466 $ 1,476 Annualized inventory turns 12.7 13.8 Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Cash provided by operating activities $ 2,649 $ 2,465 Repurchases of common stockstock repurchase program $ 2,000 $ 253 Dividends $ 914 $ 744 42 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 27, 2013 , as updated as applicable in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements herein, describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria have been met: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists. Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Delivery has occurred. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery. The fee is fixed or determinable. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. Collectibility is reasonably assured. We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include services, the multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine the unit of accounting, and the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the relative selling price. Revenue is recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for each unit of accounting are met. The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our valuation of the units of accounting for multiple deliverables. According to the accounting guidance prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition , we use vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) for each of those units, when available. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the historical standalone transactions have the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median rates. When VSOE does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy to applicable multiple-deliverable arrangements. Under the selling price hierarchy, third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) will be considered if VSOE does not exist, and estimated selling price (ESP) will be used if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Generally, we are not able to determine TPE because our go-to-market strategy differs from that of others in our markets, and the extent of our proprietary technology varies among comparable products or services from those of our peers. In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company-specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, profitability objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting. Some of our sales arrangements have multiple deliverables containing software and related software support components. Such sales arrangements are subject to the accounting guidance in ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition . As our business and offerings evolve over time, our pricing practices may be required to be modified accordingly, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and ESP, in subsequent periods. There were no material impacts during the first quarter of fiscal 2014 nor do we currently expect a material impact in the next 12 months on our revenue recognition due to any changes in our VSOE, TPE, or ESP. Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements, service, support, and other factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our deferred revenue for products was $4.3 billion and $4.0 billion as of October 26, 2013 and July 27, 2013 , respectively. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which typically is from one to three years. Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. Our deferred revenue for services was $8.9 billion and $9.4 billion as of October 26, 2013 and July 27, 2013 , respectively. 43 Table of Contents We make sales to distributors which we refer to as two-tier systems of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Our distributors participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. If actual credits received by our distributors under these programs were to deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected. Allowances for Receivables and Sales Returns The allowances for receivables were as follows (in millions, except percentages): October 26, 2013 July 27, 2013 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 245 $ 228 Percentage of gross accounts receivable 4.5 % 4.0 % Allowance for credit losslease receivables $ 237 $ 238 Percentage of gross lease receivables 6.2 % 6.3 % Allowance for credit lossloan receivables $ 93 $ 86 Percentage of gross loan receivables 5.1 % 5.2 % The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of these allowances by considering internal factors such as historical experience, credit quality and age of the receivable balances, as well as external factors such as economic conditions that may affect a customers ability to pay and expected default frequency rates, which are published by major third-party credit-rating agencies and are generally updated on a quarterly basis. We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances for doubtful accounts. If a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates, if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other circumstances arise, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. The allowance for credit loss on financing receivables is also based on the assessment of collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of the credit allowances determined either on an individual or a collective basis. When evaluating the financing receivables on an individual basis, we consider historical experience, credit quality and age of receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customers ability to pay. When evaluating financing receivables on a collective basis, we use expected default frequency rates published by a major third-party credit-rating agency as well as our own historical loss rate in the event of default, while also systematically giving effect to economic conditions, concentration of risk and correlation. Determining expected default frequency rates and loss factors associated with internal credit risk ratings, as well as assessing factors such as economic conditions, concentration of risk, and correlation, are complex and subjective. Our ongoing consideration of all these factors could result in an increase in our allowance for credit loss in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. Both accounts receivable and financing receivables are charged off at the point when they are considered uncollectible. A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of October 26, 2013 and July 27, 2013 was $134 million and $119 million , respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable. If the actual future returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected. Inventory Valuation and Liability for Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers Our inventory balance was $1.5 billion as of each October 26, 2013 and July 27, 2013 , respectively. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of October 26, 2013 , the liability for these purchase commitments was $169 million , compared with $172 million as of July 27, 2013 , and was included in other current liabilities. Our provision for inventory was $18 million and $34 million for the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $30 million and $14 million for the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. 44 Table of Contents If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs, and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, and accordingly our profitability could be adversely affected. We regularly evaluate our exposure for inventory write-downs and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence, particularly in light of current macroeconomic uncertainties and conditions and the resulting potential for changes in future demand forecast. Warranty Costs The liability for product warranties, included in other current liabilities, was $492 million as of October 26, 2013 , compared with $431 million as of July 27, 2013 . See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overhead. Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities. The provision for product warranties during the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013 was $240 million and $162 million , respectively. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our profitability could be adversely affected. Share-Based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense is presented as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Variance Share-based compensation expense $ 309 $ 306 $ 3 Restricted stock units are valued using the market value of our common stock on the date of grant, discounted for the present value of expected dividends. Restricted stock unit awards with market-based conditions are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The determination of the fair value of employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. For employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights, these variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, the risk-free interest rate, and expected dividends as of the grant date. For employee stock options, we historically have used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, we used the implied volatility for traded options (with lives corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on our stock. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The valuation of employee stock options (granted in prior periods, but for which expense was recognized during the period presented) is also impacted by kurtosis and skewness, which are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns and the actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Because share-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. Fair Value Measurements Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $42.9 billion as of October 26, 2013 , compared with $42.7 billion as of July 27, 2013 . Our fixed income investment portfolio, as of October 26, 2013 , consisted primarily of high-quality investment-grade securities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 45 Table of Contents As described more fully in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, a valuation hierarchy is based on the level of independent, objective evidence available regarding the value of the investments. It encompasses three classes of investments: Level 1 consists of securities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical securities; Level 2 consists of securities for which observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs are used, such as quoted prices for similar securities in active markets or quoted prices for identical securities in less active markets and model-derived valuations for which the variables are derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data; and Level 3 consists of securities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value. Our Level 2 securities are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from independent pricing vendors, quoted market prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate fair value of our assets and liabilities. We use such pricing data as the primary input, to which we have not made any material adjustments during fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 , to make our assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of our investment portfolio. We are ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates. The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information, and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to its estimate of fair value. The assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio, and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and assumptions affected by levels of subjectivity and judgment was material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of October 26, 2013 . We had no Level 3 investments in our total portfolio as of October 26, 2013 . Other-than-Temporary Impairments We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described in the prior sentence, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit loss, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information, including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral. For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. There were no impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity securities and fixed income securities in the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013 . Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of October 26, 2013 , our investments in privately held companies were $884 million , compared with $833 million as of July 27, 2013 , and were included in other assets. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment, and we make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $1 million and $10 million for the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013 , respectively. 46 Table of Contents Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Asset Impairments Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. The assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets. The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 26, 2013 and July 27, 2013 was $23.8 billion and $21.9 billion , respectively. The increase in goodwill for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 was due in large part to our acquisition of Sourcefire. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill in the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013 . We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. There were no impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets for the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013 . Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, research and development (R&D) tax credits, domestic manufacturing deductions, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, international realignments, and transfer pricing adjustments. Our effective tax rate was 21.4% and 20.5% in the first quarters of fiscal 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit or domestic manufacturing deduction laws; by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives; by transfer pricing adjustments, including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R&D cost-sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. As a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to 47 Table of Contents reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Loss Contingencies We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 48 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue The following table presents the breakdown of revenue between product and service (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Revenue: Product $ 9,397 $ 9,297 $ 100 1.1 % Percentage of revenue 77.8 % 78.3 % Service 2,688 2,579 109 4.2 % Percentage of revenue 22.2 % 21.7 % Total $ 12,085 $ 11,876 $ 209 1.8 % We manage our business primarily on a geographic basis, organized into three geographic segments. Our revenue, which includes product and service for each segment, is summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Revenue: Americas $ 7,316 $ 7,023 $ 293 4.2 % Percentage of revenue 60.5 % 59.2 % EMEA 2,933 2,841 92 3.2 % Percentage of revenue 24.3 % 23.9 % APJC 1,836 2,012 (176 ) (8.7 )% Percentage of revenue 15.2 % 16.9 % Total $ 12,085 $ 11,876 $ 209 1.8 % Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended October 27, 2012 For the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 , total revenue increased by 2% . Within total revenue growth, product revenue increased by 1% , while service revenue increased by 4% . Our total revenue reflected growth in our Americas and EMEA geographic segments, while revenue declined in the APJC segment. Across our geographic segments, product revenue for most of our emerging countries experienced a decline. The emerging countries of Brazil, Russia, India, China, and Mexico (BRICM), collectively experienced a 12% product revenue decline, with the decline across all of our customer markets. From a worldwide customer markets standpoint, we experienced product revenue growth across most of our customer markets except in the service provider market, where we experienced a product revenue decline across all our geographic segments. We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on revenue has not been material because our revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our revenue to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our revenue is influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations. We do believe that there may have been some negative indirect effect on our revenue and business momentum in certain of the emerging countries where there was depreciation of the local currency relative to the U.S. dollar although such indirect effects are difficult to measure as noted. 49 Table of Contents In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, including a reduced IT spending environment and budget-driven reductions in spending by government entities, revenue by segment in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple-element arrangements; the mix of financing arrangements provided to our channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the revenue related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition, which in turn would impact the revenue of the relevant segment. As has been the case in certain of our emerging countries from time to time, customers require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, and these activities may occur in future periods, which may also impact the timing of the recognition of revenue. Product Revenue by Segment The following table presents the breakdown of product revenue by segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Product revenue: Americas $ 5,533 $ 5,314 $ 219 4.1 % Percentage of product revenue 58.9 % 57.1 % EMEA 2,381 2,332 49 2.1 % Percentage of product revenue 25.3 % 25.1 % APJC 1,483 1,651 (168 ) (10.2 )% Percentage of product revenue 15.8 % 17.8 % Total $ 9,397 $ 9,297 $ 100 1.1 % Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended October 27, 2012 Americas Product revenue in the Americas segment grew by 4% . This product revenue growth was across most of our customer markets, led by moderate growth in the public sector, commercial, and enterprise markets. However, we experienced a decline in product revenue in the service provider market. From a country perspective, product revenue increased by approximately 3% in both the United States and Canada. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we experienced some weakness in our business momentum in certain countries within Latin America. This weakness continued during the first quarter of fiscal 2014, as product revenue declined by 3% in Mexico compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 , and we also experienced a decline in our business momentum in Brazil, consistent with what we observed in other emerging countries. EMEA Product revenue in the EMEA segment increased by 2% , led by solid growth in the public sector market and, to a lesser degree, in the commercial market. We experienced declines in product revenue in the enterprise and service provider markets. Similar to what we observed in our other geographic segments, we experienced considerable weakness with respect to product revenue in the emerging countries within EMEA. In addition, consistent with what we experienced in fiscal 2013, we continued to experience weakness within various parts of Europe such as Southern Europe. From an individual country perspective, product revenue increased by 28% in the Netherlands and 2% in the United Kingdom, partially offset by product revenue declines of 16% in Russia, 8% in Germany and 2% in France. APJC Product revenue in the APJC segment decreased by 10% . The product revenue decline was across most of our customer markets in the APJC segment, led by a significant product revenue decline in the service provider market, and to a lesser degree in the public sector and enterprise markets. For the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we continued to experience weakness in China with product revenue down 17% year over year, as we work through changing political dynamics in this country. We also continued to experience declines in many of the other emerging countries in this segment, most notably India which experienced a year-over-year product revenue decline of 16%. Other countries which contributed to the weakness in this segment included Japan which experienced a year-over-year product revenue decline of 23% driven by a reduction in business momentum in the service provider market and Australia which experienced a year-over-year product revenue decline of 6%. 50 Table of Contents Product Revenue by Groups of Similar Products In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to groups of similar products and customer markets for various purposes. Our product categories consist of the following categories (with subcategories in parentheses): Switching (fixed switching, modular switching, and storage); NGN Routing (high-end routers, mid-range and low-end routers, and other NGN Routing products); Collaboration (unified communications, Cisco TelePresence, and conferencing); Service Provider Video (infrastructure and video software and solutions); Data Center; Wireless; Security; and Other Products. The Other Products category consists primarily of emerging technology products and other networking products. The following table presents revenue for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Product revenue: Switching $ 3,754 $ 3,629 $ 125 3.4 % Percentage of product revenue 40.0 % 39.0 % NGN Routing 2,043 2,055 (12 ) (0.6 )% Percentage of product revenue 21.7 % 22.1 % Collaboration 1,027 1,020 7 0.7 % Percentage of product revenue 10.9 % 11.0 % Service Provider Video 987 1,149 (162 ) (14.1 )% Percentage of product revenue 10.5 % 12.4 % Data Center 601 417 184 44.1 % Percentage of product revenue 6.4 % 4.5 % Wireless 540 499 41 8.2 % Percentage of product revenue 5.7 % 5.4 % Security 365 338 27 8.0 % Percentage of product revenue 3.9 % 3.6 % Other 80 190 (110 ) (57.9 )% Percentage of product revenue 0.9 % 2.0 % Total $ 9,397 $ 9,297 $ 100 1.1 % Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior period amounts to conform to the current periods presentation. Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended October 27, 2012 Switching Revenue in our Switching product category increased by 3% , or $125 million . Revenue from LAN fixed-configuration switches grew 11%, or $229 million, resulting from higher sales of our Cisco Catalyst 3850 Series Switches and multiple Nexus Series Switches. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our modular switches of 6%, or $79 million, driven primarily by lower sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switches. Revenue in the Switching product category was also negatively impacted by a 20% decrease in sales of storage products. NGN Routing Revenue in our NGN Routing product category decreased by 1% , or $12 million . Revenue from high-end router products decreased by 5%, or $58 million. The decrease was due to lower revenue from our Cisco Carrier Routing System (CRS) products, as we manage through product transitions in this area including with our CRS-X and Cisco Network Convergence System (NCS) 6000 product launches, and to lower revenue from our legacy high-end router products. We also experienced a decline in revenue from our Aggregation Services Router (ASR) 5500 service provider mobility product lines, due to what we believe to be the timing of larger orders. These decreases in high end routing were partially offset by increased revenue from our Cisco ASR 9000 and 1000 products. 51 Table of Contents We also saw an increase in revenue from our midrange and low-end router products and an increase in revenue from other NGN Routing products. Higher revenue in our midrange and low-end router products were driven by increased sales of our Cisco Integrated Services Routers (ISR) products. Revenue from other NGN Routing products increased due to higher sales of certain optical networking products. Collaboration Our Collaboration product category continues to shift its focus to recurring revenue streams driven by software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings. Overall, revenue in our Collaboration product category increased by 1% , or $7 million , primarily due to increased revenue from our Conferencing and Cisco TelePresence products. These increases were partially offset by lower revenue from our Unified Communication products due in part to a shift in our sales emphasis toward products with recurring revenue streams. Service Provider Video Revenue in our Service Provider Video product category decreased 14% , or $162 million , driven by a 15%, or $141 million, decrease in sales of our Service Provider Video infrastructure products and a 9%, or $21 million, decrease in sales of our Service Provider Video Software and Solutions. The revenue decline in Service Provider Video infrastructure products, which includes connected devices and cable access products, was due primarily to lower sales of set-top boxes which declined by over 20%. Data Center We continue to experience solid growth in our Data Center product category, which grew 44% , or $184 million , with solid sales growth of our Cisco Unified Computing System products across all geographic segments and customer markets. The increase was due in large part to the continued momentum we are experiencing for both data center and cloud environments as current customers increase their data center build-outs, and as new customers deploy these offerings. To the extent our Data Center business grows and further penetrates the market, we expect that, in comparison to what we experienced during the initial rapid growth of this business, the growth rates for our Data Center product revenue will experience more normal seasonality consistent with the overall server market. Wireless Revenue in our Wireless product category increased 8% , or $41 million , due primarily to sales of products resulting from our acquisition of Meraki. Excluding revenue from Meraki products, revenue growth in our Wireless product category was relatively flat. Security Revenue in our Security product category was up 8% , or $27 million , driven by higher sales of our high-end firewall products within our network security product portfolio. This increase was partially offset by a slight decrease in sales of our content security products. Revenue in our Security product category also benefited from the inclusion of sales of products resulting from our acquisition of Sourcefire subsequent to the October 2013 acquisition date. Other We experienced a decrease in revenue in our Other Products category due in large part to the sale of our Linksys product line in the third quarter of fiscal 2013. 52 Table of Contents Service Revenue by Segment The following table presents the breakdown of service revenue by segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Service revenue: Americas $ 1,783 $ 1,709 $ 74 4.3 % Percentage of service revenue 66.4 % 66.3 % EMEA 552 509 43 8.4 % Percentage of service revenue 20.5 % 19.7 % APJC 353 361 (8 ) (2.2 )% Percentage of service revenue 13.1 % 14.0 % Total $ 2,688 $ 2,579 $ 109 4.2 % Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended October 27, 2012 Service revenue grew by 4% , with worldwide technical support services revenue increasing by 4% and worldwide advanced services revenue increasing by 5%. Technical support service experienced growth in the Americas and EMEA segments. Renewals and technical support service contract initiations associated with product sales provided an installed base of equipment being serviced which, in concert with new service offerings, were the primary factors driving these revenue increases. Advanced services revenue, which relates to consulting support services for specific customer network needs, grew across all geographic segments driven by growth in subscription revenues. Our service revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 reflected slower growth than what we had been experiencing in recent quarters. We believe that our service revenue growth has a correlation to product revenue growth, and to the extent that our product revenue declines or grows at a slower rate, our service revenue we expect would be adversely impacted. 53 Table of Contents Gross Margin The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Amount Percentage October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Gross margin: Product $ 5,650 $ 5,549 60.1 % 59.7 % Service 1,757 1,690 65.4 % 65.5 % Total $ 7,407 $ 7,239 61.3 % 61.0 % Product Gross Margin The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the change in product gross margin percentage for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared with the corresponding prior year period: Product Gross Margin Percentage First Quarter of Fiscal 2013 59.7 % Sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing (2.8 )% Mix of products sold (0.1 )% Productivity (1) 3.4 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets (0.4 )% Acquisition fair value adjustment to inventory and other 0.3 % First Quarter of Fiscal 2014 60.1 % (1) Productivity includes overall manufacturing-related costs, shipment volume, and other items not categorized elsewhere. Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended October 27, 2012 Product gross margin increased by 0.4 percentage points largely driven by continued productivity improvements. We continued to experience the benefits from our cost improvement efforts across most of our products, particularly in certain of our Switching, NGN Routing and Data Center categories in which product transitions have been taking place. These improvements were driven by value engineering efforts; favorable component pricing; and continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations. Value engineering is the process by which production costs are reduced through component redesign, board configuration, test processes, and transformation processes. The positive impact of the productivity improvements were partially offset by the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates, and unfavorable product pricing. These factors impacted most of our customer markets and each of our three geographic segments, but we did experience some favorability due to the geographic mix of our revenue. The shift in the mix of products sold slightly decreased our product gross margin, primarily as a result of increased revenue from our relatively lower margin Cisco Unified Computing System products partially offset by decreased revenue from our relatively lower margin Service Provider Video products. Additionally, our product gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 was negatively impacted by higher amortization expense of purchased intangible assets from certain of our recent acquisitions. Our future gross margins could be impacted by our product mix and could be adversely affected by further growth in sales of products that have lower gross margins, such as Cisco Unified Computing System products. Our gross margins may also be impacted by the geographic mix of our revenue and, as was the case in fiscal 2013 and 2012, may be adversely affected by increased sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing attributable to competitive factors. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain, which in turn could negatively affect gross margin. If any of the preceding factors that in the past have negatively impacted our gross margins arise in future periods, our gross margins could continue to decline. 54 Table of Contents Service Gross Margin Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended October 27, 2012 Our service gross margin percentage decreased slightly by 0.1 percentage points for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 , driven by increased cost impacts such as headcount-related costs, particularly in advanced services, and to a lesser degree, increased partner delivery cost. These cost impacts were partially offset by the resulting benefit to the gross margin of higher sales volume from growth in both advanced services and technical support services. Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract initiations in our renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and the resources we deploy to support the overall service business. Other factors include the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services. Gross Margin by Segment The following table presents the total gross margin for each segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Amount Percentage October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Gross margin: Americas $ 4,650 $ 4,468 63.6 % 63.6 % EMEA 1,888 1,798 64.4 % 63.3 % APJC 1,079 1,176 58.8 % 58.5 % Segment total 7,617 7,442 63.0 % 62.7 % Unallocated corporate items (1) (210 ) (203 ) Total $ 7,407 $ 7,239 61.3 % 61.0 % (1) The unallocated corporate items for the periods presented include the effects of amortization and impairments of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, impacts to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, charges related to asset impairments and restructurings, and certain other charges. We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each segment because management does not include such information in measuring the performance of the operating segments. Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended October 27, 2012 We experienced a gross margin percentage increase in our EMEA and APJC segments, while our Americas segment was flat year over year. The gross margin percentage was flat in our Americas segment as the impact of productivity improvements in this region were offset by higher sales discounts, higher rebates, unfavorable pricing, and unfavorable mix impacts, as well as a decline in our service gross margin. The unfavorable mix impacts were due in large part to higher revenue from our lower margin Data Center products. Our EMEA segment experienced a gross margin percentage increase due primarily to productivity improvements and a more favorable mix of products sold during the current period, driven by a decrease in revenue from our relatively lower margin Service Provider Video products. Partially offsetting these factors were the impacts from higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing. The APJC segment gross margin percentage increase was due primarily to productivity improvements and favorable mix impacts, reflecting a decrease in revenue from our relatively lower margin Service Provider Video products. Partially offsetting these favorable factors were impacts from higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing. The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions as well as our movement into new market opportunities, and could decline if any of the factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods. 55 Table of Contents Factors That May Impact Revenue and Gross Margin Product revenue may continue to be affected by factors, including global economic downturns and related market uncertainty, that have resulted in reduced IT-related capital spending in certain segments within our enterprise, service provider, public sector, and commercial markets; changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition, including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix of our customers between service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer. Sales to the service provider market have been and may be in the future characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain products within our Collaboration, Data Center, and Service Provider Video product categories. In addition, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including network design services; and often have acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain of our customers in certain emerging countries also tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the revenue related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, especially in certain emerging countries, which in turn may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter revenue and operating results. Product revenue may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market; price and product competition in the communications and information technology industry; introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products; adoption of new networking standards; and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers ability to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same quarter. For additional factors that may impact product revenue, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our distributors participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs. Increased sales to our distributors generally result in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue for sales to our distributors generally based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs. Product gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including periods of increased growth of some of our lower margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages; and new business models for our offerings such as other-as-a-service (XaaS); our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost structures, as a result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially those from China; changes in geographic mix of our product revenue; the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs, including share-based compensation expense; excess inventory and obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing; effects of value engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and operating plans. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and advanced services; the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals; share-based compensation expense; and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business. 56 Table of Contents Research and Development (R&D), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative (G&A) Expenses R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 1,724 $ 1,431 $ 293 20.5 % Percentage of revenue 14.3 % 12.0 % Sales and marketing 2,411 2,416 (5 ) (0.2 )% Percentage of revenue 20.0 % 20.3 % General and administrative 515 560 (45 ) (8.0 )% Percentage of revenue 4.3 % 4.7 % Total $ 4,650 $ 4,407 $ 243 5.5 % Percentage of revenue 38.5 % 37.1 % R&D Expenses The increase in R&D expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2013 , was due to $235 million in acquisition-related costs primarily related to compensation expense recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 in connection with our agreement to purchase the remaining interest in Insieme. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Higher headcount-related expenses also contributed to the increase. We continue to invest in R&D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, or we may partner with or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R&D. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses were flat for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2013 , as lower discretionary spending and contracted services were offset by higher headcount-related expenses resulting in part from our recent acquisitions. G&A Expenses G&A expenses decreased for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 , primarily due to lower corporate-level expenses, driven by a gain from sales of real estate in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 . Lower contracted services also contributed to the decline in G&A expenses. Effect of Foreign Currency In the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased the combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by $44 million , or approximately 1.0% , compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 . Headcount Our headcount increased by 87 employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with the total headcount at the end of fiscal 2013 . The increase was attributable to the headcount from new acquisitions, as well as strategic hiring primarily in engineering, partially offset by headcount reductions related to our workforce reduction plan announced in August 2013. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Share-Based Compensation Expense The following table presents share-based compensation expense (in millions): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Cost of salesproduct $ 10 $ 10 Cost of salesservice 33 35 Share-based compensation expense in cost of sales 43 45 Research and development 92 84 Sales and marketing 123 130 General and administrative 54 50 Restructuring and other charges (3 ) (3 ) Share-based compensation expense in operating expenses 266 261 Total share-based compensation expense $ 309 $ 306 The slight year-over-year increase in share-based compensation expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 , was due primarily to share-based compensation attributable to equity awards assumed with respect to our recent acquisitions. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses (in millions): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses $ 65 $ 122 The decrease in amortization of purchased intangible assets for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 , was due primarily to certain purchased intangible assets that became fully amortized, partially offset by amortization of purchased intangible assets from our recent acquisitions. For additional information regarding purchased intangible assets, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets. Restructuring and Other Charges In the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , we incurred within operating expenses restructuring and other charges of approximately $237 million , which were related primarily to employee severance charges for employees subject to our workforce reduction plan that we announced in August 2013. We expect the remaining charges to be incurred within the remainder of fiscal 2014. This workforce reduction plan is designed to enable us to rebalance our workforce in order to reinvest in key growth areas such as the cloud, data center, mobility, services, software and security and to drive operational efficiencies. As we intend to reinvest in the above areas, we do not expect significant overall cost savings as a result of this rebalancing of our resources. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013 , we incurred within operating expenses restructuring and other charges of $59 million , which were related primarily to employee severance charges for employees subject to our workforce reduction under Fiscal 2011 Plans. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 58 Table of Contents Operating Income The following table presents our operating income and our operating income as a percentage of revenue (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Operating income $ 2,455 $ 2,651 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 20.3 % 22.3 % In the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 , operating income decreased by 7% , and as a percentage of revenue operating income decreased by 2.0 percentage points. The decrease was primarily due to the $257 million compensation expense recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 in connection with our agreement to purchase the remaining interest in Insieme, as well as the increase in restructuring and other charges related to the workforce reduction that we announced in August 2013. Interest and Other Income (Loss), Net Interest Income (Expense), Net The following table summarizes interest income and interest expense (in millions): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Variance in Dollars Interest income $ 169 $ 161 $ 8 Interest expense (140 ) (148 ) 8 Interest income (expense), net $ 29 $ 13 $ 16 For the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , interest income increased 5% compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 due to increased interest income earned from our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents, fixed income investments and financing receivables. The decrease in interest expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 , was attributable to the favorable impact of interest rate swaps and lower expense on our floating-rate notes as the benchmark London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) decreased. Other Income (Loss), Net The components of other income (loss), net, are summarized as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Variance in Dollars Gains (losses) on investments, net: Publicly traded equity securities $ 75 $ 10 $ 65 Fixed income securities 8 17 (9 ) Total available-for-sale investments 83 27 56 Privately held companies (31 ) (42 ) 11 Net gains (losses) on investments 52 (15 ) 67 Other gains (losses), net 4 (18 ) 22 Other income (loss), net $ 56 $ (33 ) $ 89 The increase in total net gains on available-for-sale investments in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 was attributable to higher gains on publicly traded equity securities in the current period as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities. The change in net losses on investments in privately held companies was primarily due to higher realized gains from the sales of various private investments, partially offset by an increase of $11 million in our proportional share of losses from our VCE joint venture. The change in other gains (losses), net for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 was primarily due to higher gains on equity derivative instruments, lower donation expenses and net favorable foreign exchange impacts. 59 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates, higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates, and expiration of or lapses in tax incentives. Our provision for income taxes does not include provisions for U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that we intend to reinvest indefinitely in our foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed from the foreign subsidiaries to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 21.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with an effective tax rate of 20.5% for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 . The net 0.9 percentage point increase in the effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 , as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2013 , was attributable to an increase in nondeductible compensation expense in connection with our agreement to purchase the remaining interest in Insieme. 60 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, our capital allocation strategy including stock repurchase program and dividends, our contractual obligations, and certain other commitments and activities on our liquidity and capital resources. Balance Sheet and Cash Flows Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions): October 26, 2013 July 27, 2013 Increase (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 5,254 $ 7,925 $ (2,671 ) Fixed income securities 40,433 39,888 545 Publicly traded equity securities 2,514 2,797 (283 ) Total $ 48,201 $ 50,610 $ (2,409 ) The decrease in cash and cash equivalents and investments in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 was primarily the result of cash paid for acquisitions of $2.4 billion and repurchases of common stock of $1.9 billion under the stock repurchase program. Other significant uses of cash in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 included cash dividends paid of $0.9 billion and capital expenditures of $0.3 billion . Partially offsetting these cash outflows were cash provided by operating activities of $2.6 billion , an increase from $2.5 billion provided by operating activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 , and issuances of common stock of $0.4 billion . Our total in cash and cash equivalents and investments held by various foreign subsidiaries was $42.0 billion and $40.4 billion as of October 26, 2013 and July 27, 2013 , respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if these assets were to be distributed from the foreign subsidiaries to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. The balance available in the United States as of October 26, 2013 and July 27, 2013 was $6.2 billion and $10.2 billion , respectively. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our fixed income investment portfolio consisting primarily of high-quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and payment of dividends as discussed below. Free Cash Flow and Capital Allocation In August 2012, as part of our capital allocation strategy, we announced our intent to return a minimum of 50% of our free cash flow annually to our shareholders through cash dividends and repurchases of common stock. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less cash used to acquire property and equipment. The following table reconciles our net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in millions): Three Months Ended October 26, 2013 October 27, 2012 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,649 $ 2,465 Acquisition of property and equipment (315 ) (265 ) Free cash flow $ 2,334 $ 2,200 We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, deferred revenue, excess tax benefits resulting from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this report. 61 Table of Contents We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors because of our intent to return a stated percentage of free cash flow to shareholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases. We further regard free cash flow as a useful measure because it reflects cash that can be used to, among other things, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, repurchase common stock, and pay dividends on our common stock, after deducting capital investments. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance and liquidity is that the free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. In addition, we have other required uses of cash, including repaying the principal of our outstanding indebtedness. Free cash flow is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be regarded in isolation or as an alternative for net income provided by operating activities or any other measure calculated in accordance with such principles, and other companies may calculate free cash flow in a different manner than we do. The following table summarizes the dividends paid and stock repurchases (in millions, except per-share amounts): DIVIDENDS STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM TOTAL Quarter Ended Per Share Amount Shares Weighted-Average Price per Share Amount Amount Fiscal 2014 October 26, 2013 $ 0.17 $ 914 84 $ 23.65 $ 2,000 $ 2,914 Fiscal 2013 July 27, 2013 $ 0.17 $ 918 47 $ 24.80 $ 1,160 $ 2,078 April 27, 2013 $ 0.17 $ 905 41 $ 20.85 $ 860 $ 1,765 January 26, 2013 $ 0.14 $ 743 25 $ 20.15 $ 500 $ 1,243 October 27, 2012 $ 0.14 $ 744 15 $ 16.44 $ 253 $ 997 Accounts Receivable, Net The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions), and DSO: October 26, 2013 July 27, 2013 Increase (Decrease) Accounts receivable, net $ 5,188 $ 5,470 $ (282 ) DSO 39 40 (1 ) Our accounts receivable net, as of October 26, 2013 decreased by approximately 5% compared with the end of fiscal 2013 . Our DSO as of October 26, 2013 was one day lower compared with the end of fiscal 2013 . The slight decrease in DSO for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 was primarily attributable to the timing of service billings during the respective quarters. Inventory Supply Chain The following table summarizes our inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns): October 26, 2013 July 27, 2013 Increase (Decrease) Inventories $ 1,466 $ 1,476 $ (10 ) Annualized inventory turns 12.7 13.8 (1.1 ) Purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers $ 4,020 $ 4,033 $ (13 ) Inventory as of October 26, 2013 decreased by 1% from our inventory balance at the end of fiscal 2013 , and for the same period purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were flat. On a combined basis, inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were flat compared with the end of fiscal 2013 . We believe our inventory and purchase commitments are in line with our current demand forecasts. Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished goods. Distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners as well as shipments to customers. Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and build-to-stock products. 62 Table of Contents We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Our purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity. We record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. The purchase commitments for inventory are expected to be primarily fulfilled within one year. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels. Financing Receivables and Guarantees We measure our net balance sheet exposure position related to our financing receivables and financing guarantees by reducing the total of gross financing receivables and financing guarantees by the associated allowances for credit loss and deferred revenue. As of October 26, 2013 , our net balance sheet exposure position related to financing receivables and financing guarantees was as follows (in millions): FINANCING RECEIVABLES FINANCING GUARANTEES TOTAL October 26, 2013 Lease Receivables Loan Receivables Financed Service Contracts and Other Total Channel Partner End-User Customers Total Gross amount less unearned income $ 3,549 $ 1,808 $ 3,018 $ 8,375 $ 483 $ 223 $ 706 $ 9,081 Allowance for credit loss (237 ) (93 ) (20 ) (350 ) (350 ) Deferred revenue (35 ) (23 ) (1,881 ) (1,939 ) (232 ) (189 ) (421 ) (2,360 ) Net balance sheet exposure $ 3,277 $ 1,692 $ 1,117 $ 6,086 $ 251 $ 34 $ 285 $ 6,371 Financing Receivables Gross financing receivables less unearned income increased by 1% compared with the end of fiscal 2013 . The change was primarily due to a 10% increase in loan receivables and a 1% increase in lease receivables, partially reduced by a 4% decrease in financed service contracts and other. We provide financing to certain end-user customers and channel partners to enable sales of our products, services, and networking solutions. These financing arrangements include leases, financed service contracts, and loans. Arrangements related to leases are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables include sales-type and direct-financing leases. We also provide certain qualified customers financing for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services and advanced services. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. We expect to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term. Financing Guarantees In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and in some cases, we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Historically, our payments under these arrangements have been immaterial. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed. 63 Table of Contents Deferred Revenue Related to Financing Receivables and Guarantees The majority of the deferred revenue in the preceding table is related to financed service contracts. The majority of the revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred as the revenue related to financed service contracts is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed. A portion of the revenue related to lease and loan receivables is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue recognition criteria not currently having been met. Borrowings Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions): October 26, 2013 July 27, 2013 Senior notes: Floating-rate notes, due 2014 $ 1,250 $ 1,250 1.625% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 2,000 2,000 2.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 500 500 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2016 3,000 3,000 3.15% fixed-rate notes, due 2017 750 750 4.95% fixed-rate notes, due 2019 2,000 2,000 4.45% fixed-rate notes, due 2020 2,500 2,500 5.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2039 2,000 2,000 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2040 2,000 2,000 Total $ 16,000 $ 16,000 Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Interest is payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of October 26, 2013 . Other Debt Other debt includes secured borrowings associated with customer financing arrangements, notes and credit facilities with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and notes related to our investment in Insieme Networks, Inc. (Insieme). The amount of borrowings outstanding under these arrangements was $33 million and $31 million as of October 26, 2013 and July 27, 2013 , respectively. Commercial Paper In fiscal 2011 we established a short-term debt financing program of up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper notes. As of October 26, 2013 and July 27, 2013 , we had no commercial paper notes outstanding under this program. Credit Facility On February 17, 2012, we entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on February 17, 2017. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50%, Bank of Americas prime rate as announced from time to time, or one-month LIBOR plus 1.00%, or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard & Poors Financial Services, LLC and Moodys Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. As of October 26, 2013 , we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. We may also, upon the agreement of either the existing lenders or additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $2.0 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility by up to two additional years, or up to February 17, 2019. 64 Table of Contents Deferred Revenue The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions): October 26, 2013 July 27, 2013 Increase (Decrease) Service $ 8,896 $ 9,403 $ (507 ) Product 4,311 4,020 291 Total $ 13,207 $ 13,423 $ (216 ) Reported as: Current $ 9,212 $ 9,262 $ (50 ) Noncurrent 3,995 4,161 (166 ) Total $ 13,207 $ 13,423 $ (216 ) The 5% decrease in deferred service revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 as compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 reflects what in our view is a typical seasonal decline as we tend to experience higher service initiations as well as renewals in our fourth quarter. The increase in deferred product revenue was primarily due to the timing of revenue recognition, deferred revenue from acquisitions, and increased deferrals related to subscription revenue arrangements. Contractual Obligations Operating Leases We lease office space in many U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites include sites in Australia, Belgium, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom . We also lease equipment and vehicles. The future minimum lease payments under all of our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of October 26, 2013 were $1.2 billion . Other Commitments In connection with our business combinations and asset purchases, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or the continued employment with us of certain employees of the acquired entities. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $265 million as of October 26, 2013 , compared with $263 million as of July 27, 2013 . Insieme In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we made an investment in Insieme, an early stage company focused on research and development in the data center market. As set forth in the agreement between Cisco and Insieme, this investment includes $100 million of funding and a license to certain of our technology. In addition, pursuant to a November 2012 amendment to the agreement between Cisco and Insieme, we agreed to invest an additional $35 million in Insieme upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. As of October 26, 2013 , we owned approximately 83% of Insieme as a result of these investments and have consolidated the results of Insieme in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with this investment, we entered into a put/call option agreement that provided us with the right to purchase the remaining interests in Insieme. In addition, the noncontrolling interest holders could require us to purchase their shares upon the occurrence of certain events. During the three months ended October 26, 2013, we exercised our call option and entered into a merger agreement to purchase the remaining interests in Insieme. The merger is expected to close in the second quarter of fiscal 2014, at which time the noncontrolling interest holders will be eligible to receive up to two milestone payments, which will be determined using agreed-upon formulas based primarily on revenue for certain of Insiemes products. During the three months ended October 26, 2013, we recorded a liability of $257 million for compensation expense related to the fair value of the vested portion of amounts that are expected to be earned by the noncontrolling interest holders. Continued vesting and changes to the fair value of the amounts probable of being earned will result in adjustments to the recorded compensation expense in future periods. The maximum amount that could be recorded as compensation expense by us is approximately $863 million , including the $257 million that has been expensed through October 26, 2013 . The milestone payments, if earned, are expected to be paid primarily during fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2017. 65 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and customer financings, and we have determined that as of October 26, 2013 there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities. VCE is a joint venture that we formed in fiscal 2010 with EMC Corporation (EMC), with investments from VMware, Inc. (VMware) and Intel Corporation. VCE helps organizations leverage best-in-class technologies and disciplines from Cisco, EMC, and VMware to enable the transformation to cloud computing. As of October 26, 2013 , our cumulative gross investment in VCE was approximately $578 million , inclusive of accrued interest, and our ownership percentage was approximately 35% . During the three months ended October 26, 2013 , we invested $64 million in VCE. We account for our investment in VCE under the equity method, and our portion of VCEs net loss is recognized in other income (loss), net. As of October 26, 2013 , we have recorded cumulative losses from VCE of $475 million since inception. Our carrying value in VCE as of October 26, 2013 was $103 million . Over the next 12 months, as VCE scales its operations, we expect that we will make additional investments in VCE and may incur additional losses proportionate with our share ownership. From time to time, EMC and Cisco may enter into guarantee agreements on behalf of VCE to indemnify third parties, such as customers, for monetary damages. Such guarantees were not material as of October 26, 2013 . On an ongoing basis, we reassess our investments in privately held companies and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance. As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events. We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the previous discussion of these financing guarantees under Financing Receivables and Guarantees. Securities Lending We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale investments. These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. The average daily balance of securities lending for the three months ended October 26, 2013 and October 27, 2012 was $0.6 billion and $0.8 billion , respectively. We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against collateral losses. As of October 26, 2013 and July 27, 2013 , we had no outstanding securities lending transactions. We believe these arrangements do not present a material risk or impact to our liquidity requirements. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and committed credit lines will satisfy, through at least the next 12 months, our liquidity requirements, both in total and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, pending acquisitions, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect the liquidity and the availability of, as well as our requirements for, capital resources. 66 Table of Contents