Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, endeavors, strives, may, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview A summary of our results is as follows (in millions, except percentages and per-share amounts): Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Variance Net sales $ 10,750 $ 9,021 19.2 % Gross margin percentage 62.8 % 65.3 % (2.5 )pts. Operating expenses $ 4,404 $ 3,764 17.0 % Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue 41.0 % 41.7 % (0.7 )pts. Operating margin percentage 21.9 % 23.5 % (1.6 )pts. Net income $ 1,930 $ 1,787 8.0 % Net income as a percentage of revenue 18.0 % 19.8 % (1.8 )pts. Earnings per sharediluted $ 0.34 $ 0.30 13.3 % In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, net sales increased 19% from the first quarter of fiscal 2010. We experienced net sales increases across each of our geographic segments for both product and service sales, across each of our product categories and across all of our customer markets, with the exception of the consumer market. On a year-over-year basis, total gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 declined by 2.5 percentage points from the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The decrease was primarily a result of higher sales discounts and product pricing, and unfavorable product mix. We also experienced unfavorable costs associated with the carryover effect of the fiscal 2010 supply constraints we experienced. Operating expense as a percentage of revenue declined by 0.7 percentage points. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, operating expenses increased by 17%, slower than the 19% increase in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, research and development and general and administrative expenses declined, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue were unchanged from the prior year period. Diluted earnings per share increased by 13% from the prior year period; the increase resulted from an increase in net income of 8% along with a decline in our outstanding diluted share count of 196 million shares. As we entered fiscal 2011, we characterized the economic environment as unusually uncertain. We believe there were a number of positive aspects to our results for the first quarter of fiscal 2011, as evidenced by the solid year-over-year growth rates we experienced in many areas of our business. In particular, revenue growth in our Switches, Routers and New Products categories were strong. Within our New Products category we reported solid revenue growth with our collaboration and data center offerings. 33 Table of Contents While we experienced solid results in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we also saw some declines in our business momentum in various markets, especially during the third month of the first quarter. We believe that some of the deceleration in business momentum that we experienced will adversely impact our growth over the next several quarters. While the decline in our business during fiscal 2009 was broad based and impacted all geographic segments and customer markets, the challenges in our business at present appear to be centered on several specific areas. The challenges were most prevalent from a geographic perspective in our European Markets segment and from a customer markets perspective, in portions of the public sector and service provider markets. Sales in our public sector market increased as a result of increased sales to the U.S. federal government during the first quarter of fiscal 2011, however we began to experience, and expect to continue to experience some challenges related to lower spending by state, local governments and K-12 education within the United States, as well as lower spending by certain public sector customers in our European Markets segment and in Japan. In addition, we experienced weakness in our business momentum to the cable providers within our service provider market, primarily in sales of traditional cable set-top boxes in our United States and Canada segment. We expect these challenges with regard to traditional cable set-top boxes in the United States and Canada segment will continue over the next several quarters. In light of these challenges, we expect that our revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 will grow at a slower rate than we had previously anticipated at the beginning of fiscal 2011, which will in turn have a negative impact on our full fiscal year revenue growth rate, as compared with our expectations at the beginning of fiscal 2011. As many of our headcount-related investments were based on projections of higher revenue, we expect that operating expenses as a percentage of revenue will increase in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. To mitigate this impact, we expect to undertake certain cost control initiatives, and to reallocate resources to focus on areas with higher business momentum and opportunity. The lower than expected revenue levels, our anticipated seasonality, and the higher than anticipated operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, may result in downward pressure to our operating margin. Taking all of the preceding factors into consideration, we expect that our operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 will likely decline on a year-over-year basis. Strategy and Focus Areas Our strategy centers on the network as the platform. Notwithstanding the aforementioned challenges, our basic strategy remains intact. Consistent with our strategy during fiscal 2010, we continue to seek to expand our share of our customers information technology spending. We will endeavor to achieve this objective by focusing on our core networking capabilities while continuing to expand into product markets in which the role of the network as the platform is increasing and which are similar, related, or adjacent to markets in which we currently are active, which product markets we refer to as market adjacencies. We have continued our focus on our core networking capabilities and have expanded our movement into market adjacencies, primarily through the realignment of resources. We refer to the evolutionary process by which adjacencies arise as market transitions. Market transitions on which we are focusing primary attention include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies. For example, a market in which a significant market transition is under way is the enterprise data center market, where a transition to virtualization / the cloud is under way. We believe the market is at an inflection point, as awareness grows that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We further believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows: Virtualization : refers to the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network. The cloud : refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software applications, are no longer tethered to a users physical infrastructure but which instead are delivered to and consumed by the user on demand as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously. This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions. 34 Table of Contents The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing, and we expect there will be a new class of very large, well-financed, and aggressive competitors, each bringing its own new class of products to address this new market. However, with respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers. Other market transitions on which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the increased role of video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads, appear to be evolving even more quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, as customers evolve their communications and business models. We are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers, and our fiscal 2010 acquisition of Tandberg ASA (Tandberg) is an example of our increased emphasis on the video market segment. We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in addressing the market adjacencies in the communications and information technology industry will be adaptable to other market adjacencies. Examples of market adjacencies where we aim to apply this approach are mobility, the consumer, and electrical services infrastructure. With regard to mobility, the growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be seamlessly delivered on such devices. Our fiscal 2010 acquisition of Starent Networks, Corp. (Starent) reflects our recognition of the significance of this market adjacency and our intent to offer solutions that help expand IP network load capabilities for mobile devices. For the consumer market, through collaboration with technology partners, retailers, service providers, and content publishers, we are striving to create compelling consumer experiences and make the network the platform for a variety of services in the home, as broadband development moves from a device-centric phase to a network-centric model. In the electrical services infrastructure market, we are developing architecture for managing energy in a highly secure fashion on electrical grids at various steps from energy generation to consumption in homes and commercial buildings. We are currently undergoing product transitions within several of our product families, and we believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth across these product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business conditions, and therefore may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. Revenue For the first quarter of fiscal 2011, our total revenue increased by 19% year over year. Within total revenue, net product revenue increased 21% and net service revenue increased 13%. The revenue increase for the period was in part the result of revenue from our acquisitions of Starent in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 and Tandberg in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. From our geographic segment perspective, net revenue increased on a year-over-year basis by 18% in the United States and Canada segment, 11% in our European Markets segment, 41% in Emerging Markets, and 22% in our Asia Pacific Markets segment (which now includes Japan). Customer market revenue performance in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010 consisted of increases in the enterprise and public sector, commercial, and service provider markets. Our consumer market experienced a sales decline on a year-over-year basis for the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The 21% increase in product revenue was driven by year-over-year growth across our product categories. In particular, we experienced revenue increases in our Router products category of 13%, principally as a result of strength in the high-end category. We had year-over-year revenue growth of 25% in our Switches product category, chiefly as a result of strong revenue growth in both modular and fixed-configuration offerings. Our New Products category experienced a year-over-year revenue increase of 22%. The increase was spread across almost all of the sub-categories within New Products, led by revenue growth rates of 45% in collaboration products and 59% in data center products. 35 Table of Contents Gross Margin In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, our gross margin percentage decreased by approximately 2.5 percentage points compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Within this total gross margin change, product gross margin declined 2.8 percentage points while service gross margin declined 0.9 percentage points. The decrease in our product gross margin percentage was a result of higher sales discounts, product pricing and unfavorable product mix. We also experienced unfavorable costs associated with the carryover effect of the supply chain constraint issues we faced in fiscal 2010. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2010, increased amortization expense from purchased intangible assets and higher share-based compensation expense added to the decline in product gross margin. Partially offsetting these decreases were cost savings and higher shipment volume. The decline in services gross margin from the corresponding period in fiscal 2010 was due to unfavorable mix impacts and increased share-based compensation expense. Our gross margins could also be adversely impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions, our movement into market adjacencies, and the geographic mix of our revenue. Operating Expenses Operating expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 increased by 17% while decreasing by 0.7 percentage points as a percentage of revenue, each as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010. For the first quarter of fiscal 2011, higher headcount-related and higher discretionary expenses collectively contributed to the increase in operating expenses, as did higher share-based compensation expense. As noted above, in light of our expectations that our revenue will grow at a slower rate than we had previously anticipated during the second quarter of fiscal 2011 and the fact that many of our headcount-related expenses were based on projections of higher revenue, we expect that operating expense as a percentage of revenue will increase in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Other Key Financial Measures The following is a summary of our other key financial measures for the first quarter of fiscal 2011: We generated cash flows from operations of $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments, were $38.9 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2011, compared with $39.9 billion at the end of fiscal 2010. Our deferred revenue at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was $10.7 billion, compared with $11.1 billion at the end of fiscal 2010. We repurchased 113 million shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase program for $2.5 billion during the first quarter of fiscal 2011. In addition, on November 18, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $10 billion of our common stock under this program with no termination date. Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO) at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was 38 days, compared with 41 days at the end of fiscal 2010. Our inventory balance was $1.5 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2011, compared with $1.3 billion at the end of fiscal 2010. Annualized inventory turns were 11.2 in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and were 12.6 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2010, as updated where applicable in Note 2 herein, describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria have been met: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists. Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Delivery has occurred. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery. 36 Table of Contents The fee is fixed or determinable. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. Collectibility is reasonably assured. We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include services, the multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine the unit of accounting, and the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the relative selling price. Revenue is recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for each unit of accounting are met. The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our valuation of the units of accounting for the multiple deliverables. According to the accounting guidance prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition , we use vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) for each of those units, when available. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median selling price. VSOE exists across most of our product and service offerings. In certain limited circumstances when VSOE does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy to applicable multiple-deliverable arrangements. Under the selling price hierarchy, third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) will be considered if VSOE does not exist, and estimated selling price (ESP) will be used if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Generally, we are not able to determine TPE because our go-to-market strategy differs from that of others in our markets, and the extent of customization varies among comparable products or services from our peers. In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting. Some of our sales arrangements have multiple deliverables containing software and related software support components. Such sale arrangements are subject to the accounting guidance in ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition. As our business and offerings evolve over time, our pricing practices may be required to be modified accordingly, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and ESP in subsequent periods. There were no material impacts during the quarter nor do we currently expect a material impact in the next twelve months on our revenue recognition due to any changes in our VSOE, TPE, or ESP. Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements, service, support, and other factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our deferred revenue for products was $3.6 billion and $3.7 billion as of October 30, 2010 and July 31, 2010, respectively. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which typically is from one to three years. Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. Our deferred revenue for services was $7.2 billion and $7.4 billion as of October 30, 2010 and July 31, 2010, respectively. We make sales to distributors and retail partners and generally recognize revenue based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. If actual credits received by our distributors and retail partners under these programs were to deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents Allowances for Receivables and Sales Returns The allowances for receivables were as follows (in millions, except percentages): October 30, 2010 July 31, 2010 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 191 $ 235 Percentage of gross accounts receivable 4.1 % 4.6 % Allowance for lease receivables $ 232 $ 207 Percentage of gross lease receivables 9.0 % 8.6 % Allowance for loan receivables $ 80 $ 73 Percentage of gross loan receivables 6.3 % 5.8 % The allowances are based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of these allowances by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, age of the receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customers ability to pay. In addition, we perform credit reviews and statistical portfolio analysis to assess the credit quality of our receivables. We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances. The decline in our allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of our gross accounts receivable was primarily due to the write-off of certain uncollectible receivables which had been fully reserved. If a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other circumstances arise, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue. A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of October 30, 2010 and July 31, 2010 was $93 million and $90 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable. If the actual future returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected. Inventory Valuation and Liability for Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers Our inventory balance was $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion as of October 30, 2010 and July 31, 2010, respectively. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of October 30, 2010, the liability for these purchase commitments was $136 million, compared with $135 million as of July 31, 2010, and was included in other current liabilities. Our provision for inventory was $19 million for both the first quarters of fiscal 2011 and 2010. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $12 million and $7 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers and gross margin could be adversely affected. We regularly evaluate our exposure for inventory write-downs and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence, particularly in light of current macroeconomic uncertainties and conditions and the resulting potential for changes in future demand forecast. Warranty Costs The liability for product warranties, included in other current liabilities, was $350 million as of October 30, 2010, compared with $360 million as of July 31, 2010. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overhead. Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities. 38 Table of Contents The provision for product warranties issued during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010 was $110 million and $108 million, respectively. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our gross margin could be adversely affected. Share-Based Compensation Expense Total share-based compensation expense for the three months ended October 30, 2010 and October 24, 2009 was $407 million and $321 million, respectively. The determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. For employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights, these variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, risk-free interest rate, and expected dividends as of the grant date. For employee stock options, we used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, we used the implied volatility for traded options (with lives corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on our stock. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The valuation of employee stock options is also impacted by kurtosis, and skewness, which are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns, and the actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Because share-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. Fair Value Measurements Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $35.1 billion as of October 30, 2010, compared with $35.3 billion as of July 31, 2010. Our fixed income investment portfolio as of October 30, 2010 consisted primarily of the highest quality investment grade securities. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As described more fully in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, a valuation hierarchy is based on the level of independent, objective evidence available regarding the value of the investments. It encompasses three classes of investments: Level 1 consists of securities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical securities; Level 2 consists of securities for which observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs are used, such as prices for similar securities in active markets or for identical securities in less active markets and model-derived valuations for which the variables are derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data; and Level 3 consists of securities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value. Our Level 2 securities are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments, nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data, or discounted cash flow techniques in limited circumstances. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from independent pricing vendors, quoted market prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate fair value of our assets and liabilities. We use such pricing data as the primary input, to which we have not made any material adjustments during the periods presented, to make our assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of our investment portfolio. We are ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates. The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to their estimate of fair value. In the current market environment, the assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio, and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and assumptions affected by levels of subjectivity and judgment was material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of October 30, 2010. Level 3 assets do not represent a significant portion of our total investment portfolio as of October 30, 2010. Other-Than-Temporary Impairments We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. 39 Table of Contents If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described above, the entire difference between the amortized cost basis and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit losses, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral. For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. There were no impairment charges on investments in fixed income securities and publicly traded equity securities that were recognized in earnings in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 or the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described above could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of October 30, 2010, our investments in privately held companies were $779 million, compared with $756 million as of July 31, 2010, and were included in other assets. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment and will make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $3 million and $10 million during the first quarters of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Asset Impairments Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as the excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including any contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. Effective in fiscal 2010, the assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, in order to achieve operational efficiencies, we combined its Asia Pacific and Japan operations. Following this change, our business is organized in the following four geographic segments: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, and Asia Pacific Markets. As a result, the goodwill of the former Asia Pacific and Japan geographic segments as of July 31, 2010 was allocated to the combined segment Asia Pacific Markets. The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 30, 2010 and July 31, 2010 was $16.7 billion for both periods. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Our impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets were not material for the periods presented. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. 40 Table of Contents Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, research and development (R&D) tax credits, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, international realignments, and transfer pricing adjustments. Our effective tax rate was 20.4% and 20.2% in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R&D cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Loss Contingencies We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 41 Table of Contents Net Sales The following table presents the breakdown of net sales between product and service revenue (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: Product $ 8,700 $ 7,200 $ 1,500 20.8 % Service 2,050 1,821 229 12.6 % Total $ 10,750 $ 9,021 $ 1,729 19.2 % We manage our business primarily on a geographic basis, based on four geographic segments. Our net sales, which include product and service revenue, for each segment are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: United States and Canada $ 5,878 $ 4,990 $ 888 17.8 % Percentage of net sales 54.7 % 55.3 % European Markets 2,018 1,822 196 10.8 % Percentage of net sales 18.8 % 20.2 % Emerging Markets 1,215 863 352 40.8 % Percentage of net sales 11.3 % 9.6 % Asia Pacific Markets 1,639 1,346 293 21.8 % Percentage of net sales 15.2 % 14.9 % Total $ 10,750 $ 9,021 $ 1,729 19.2 % For the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, net sales increased by 19%, with sales increases experienced across our four geographic segments. Our year-over-year increase in net sales was due in part to the relative weakness of the corresponding period in fiscal 2010, as the increase in our business due to the partial economic recovery in fiscal 2010 was not yet fully reflected in our results that quarter. We had double-digit percentage point increases in both net product and services sales in comparison to the prior year period. Net product and service sales both experienced growth across each of our geographic segments. We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on sales has not been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our sales to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our sales are influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations. In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, net sales by segment in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple-element arrangements; the mix of financing arrangements provided to our channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition, which in turn would impact the net sales of the relevant segment. 42 Table of Contents Net Product Sales by Segment The following table presents the breakdown of net product sales by segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: United States and Canada $ 4,596 $ 3,832 $ 764 19.9 % Percentage of net product sales 52.8 % 53.2 % European Markets 1,709 1,532 177 11.6 % Percentage of net product sales 19.6 % 21.3 % Emerging Markets 1,030 708 322 45.5 % Percentage of net product sales 11.8 % 9.8 % Asia Pacific Markets 1,365 1,128 237 21.0 % Percentage of net product sales 15.8 % 15.7 % Total $ 8,700 $ 7,200 $ 1,500 20.8 % United States and Canada Net product sales in the United States and Canada segment for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 increased compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010. The increase in net product sales was across most of our customer markets in the United States and Canada segment, led by the enterprise and commercial markets. Sales in the consumer market declined during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 from the prior year period. Net product sales to the public sector increased primarily due to increased sales to the U.S. federal government. In the third month of the quarter we began to experience some weakness in our business momentum in sales to state, local governments and K-12 education, which we believe may be attributable in part to budget constraints and which we believe may affect our results in future quarters. While we also experienced a year-over-year increase in net product sales to the service provider market for the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we also saw indicators of a decline in our business momentum with cable providers, in particular with sales of traditional cable set-top boxes. European Markets Net product sales in the European Markets segment during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 increased compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010. The increase in net product sales in the European Markets segment was driven by increased sales in the enterprise and service provider markets. Net product sales in the consumer markets increased slightly while sales in the commercial market experienced a decline. For the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010 net product sales increased in all of our major countries in the European Markets segment. While we experienced an increase in net product sales to our European Markets segment during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010, in the third month of the quarter we began to experience some weakness in this segment, particularly with regard to our sales to the public sector market, which we believe was due to budget-driven austerity measures being taken across this region. We expect that these challenges may continue over the next several quarters. Emerging Markets For the first quarter of fiscal 2011, net product sales in the Emerging Markets segment increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The net product sales increase was experienced across all of our customer markets within Emerging Markets with the exception of the consumer market. Net product sales growth was strong in the enterprise, commercial and service provider markets. From a country perspective, we experienced strong net product sales increases in Russia, Mexico and Brazil, among other countries. Asia Pacific Markets The increase in net product sales in the Asia Pacific Markets segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010, was attributable to sales growth across most customer markets, led by strong growth in our enterprise and commercial markets. Our service provider market also experienced sales growth. We experienced increased net product sales in significant countries to us such as China, India and Japan, partially offset by a net product sales decline in Australia. While we experienced a year-over-year increase in net product sales to this segment during the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we saw some weakness in our Japanese government business and we expect continued challenges in that area over the next several quarters. 43 Table of Contents Net Product Sales by Groups of Similar Products In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to groups of similar products and customer markets for various purposes. We have regrouped our presentation of products and technologies formerly grouped as either Advanced Technologies or Other products, with our new categories being called New Products and Other. Our New Products category replaces Advanced Technologies and includes some products that had previously been in the category called Other. Our New Products category consists of the following sub-categories: video connected home (networked home, Pure Digital products, video systems, and cable products), collaboration (unified communications and Cisco TelePresence), security, wireless, and data center (application networking services, storage, and Cisco Unified Computing System products). The Other product category consists primarily of optical networking products and emerging technologies. The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: Routers $ 1,804 $ 1,600 $ 204 12.8 % Percentage of net product sales 20.7 % 22.2 % Switches 3,551 2,851 700 24.6 % Percentage of net product sales 40.8 % 39.6 % New Products 3,114 2,545 569 22.4 % Percentage of net product sales 35.8 % 35.3 % Other 231 204 27 13.2. % Percentage of net product sales 2.7 % 2.9 % Total $ 8,700 $ 7,200 $ 1,500 20.8 % Routers We categorize our routers primarily as high-end, midrange, and low-end routers. The growth in sales of our Routers product category in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was driven by a 16% increase in sales of our high-end routers. Within high-end router products, the increase was driven by sales of the Cisco ASR 1000 and 9000 Series Aggregation Services Routers, and the inclusion of the Cisco ASR 5000 products from our acquisition of Starent, partially offset by lower sales of our Cisco 12000 Series Routers and Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Routing System. Our sales of midrange and low-end routers increased by 7% and 8%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Switches The increase in net product sales in our Switches product category in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 was due primarily to higher sales of our modular and LAN fixed-configuration switches of approximately $340 million and $355 million, respectively. The increase in sales of modular switches was primarily due to the increased sales of our Cisco Nexus 7000 and Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Switches. The increase in LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to increased sales of Cisco Catalyst 2960 and 3750 Series Switches and Cisco Nexus 5000 and 2000 Series Switches. New Products In the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, net product sales within our New Products category increased by 22% to $3.1 billion. The increase in net product sales was due to the following: Sales of video connected home products increased by 11% or $97 million, due to increased sales of video systems, primarily digital set-top boxes; increased sales of cable products; and increased sales of Flip Video cameras. These increases were partially offset by decreased sales of networked home products. While we experienced a year-over-year increase in net product sales for video systems, we experienced some weakness in our business momentum in this area, specifically as it pertains to cable providers, and in particular traditional cable set-top boxes, in the United States and Canada. We expect that these challenges may continue over the next several quarters. Sales of collaboration products increased by 45% or $318 million, primarily due to the inclusion of Tandberg sales within our Cisco TelePresence systems products following our acquisition of Tandberg in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, as well as due to higher sales of unified communications products, primarily IP phones and collaborative web-based offerings. 44 Table of Contents Sales of security products decreased by 2% or $8 million. Our decreased sales of security products were a result of the lower sales of module and line cards related to our routers and LAN switches, partially offset by increased sales of our web and email security products. Sales of data center products increased by 59% or $134 million, due to a combination of increased sales of Cisco Unified Computing System products and storage sales, partially offset by slightly lower sales of application networking services products. Sales of wireless products increased by 9% or $28 million, which was primarily due to the customer adoption of and migration to the Cisco Unified Wireless Network architecture. Other Product Revenue The increase in other product revenue during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was related to higher sales of optical networking products and, to a lesser extent, sales of certain of our emerging technology products. Net Service Sales by Segment Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net service sales: United States and Canada $ 1,282 $ 1,158 $ 124 10.7 % Percentage of net service sales 62.5 % 63.6 % European Markets 309 290 19 6.6 % Percentage of net service sales 15.1 % 15.9 % Emerging Markets 185 155 30 19.4 % Percentage of net service sales 9.0 % 8.5 % Asia Pacific Markets 274 218 56 25.7 % Percentage of net service sales 13.4 % 12.0 % Total $ 2,050 $ 1,821 $ 229 12.6 % Net service revenue increased across all of our geographic segments in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, with particular strength in our Asia Pacific Markets and Emerging Markets segments. The increase in total service revenue was due to growth from technical support services as well as increased revenue from advanced services, which relates to consulting support services for specific network needs. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, technical support service revenue increased across most of our geographic segments with solid growth in our Asia Pacific Markets, Emerging Markets, and United States and Canada segments. Technical support service revenue declined in our European Markets segment for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due to specific deal rebates. We experienced revenue growth in advanced services across each of our geographic segments with particular strength in our Asia Pacific Markets, European Markets, and United States and Canada segments. Total service revenue growth in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 also benefited from incremental revenue from our acquisitions during fiscal 2010 of Tandberg and Starent. Renewals and technical support service contract initiations associated with recent product sales have resulted in a new installed base of equipment being serviced, also contributing to these increases. Gross Margin The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Amount Percentage October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Gross margin: Product $ 5,451 $ 4,714 62.7 % 65.5 % Service 1,304 1,174 63.6 % 64.5 % Total $ 6,755 $ 5,888 62.8 % 65.3 % 45 Table of Contents Product Gross Margin The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the decrease in product gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2011: Product Gross Margin Percentage First quarter of fiscal 2010 65.5 % Sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing (3.2) % Mix of products sold (0.8) % Overall manufacturing costs 1.1 % Shipment volume, net of certain variable costs 0.6 % Other (1) (0.5) % First quarter of fiscal 2011 62.7 % (1) Includes the net effects of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and share-based compensation expense. Product gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 decreased by 2.8 percentage points compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Our product gross margin was negatively impacted by sales discounts, rebates and product pricing, which were driven by normal market factors, as well as the geographic mix of product revenue. The impact from higher sales discounts, rebates and product pricing was within our expected range. Our product gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was also negatively impacted by the mix of products sold. These factors were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs and higher shipment volume. The reduction in overall manufacturing costs was due to continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations, and value engineering, partially offset by increases in other manufacturing-related costs. The higher other manufacturing-related costs were primarily the result of the carryover effect of the supply constraints we experienced in fiscal 2010. The year-over-year decrease in our product gross margin percentage was also due to higher expense levels experienced in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 from the amortization of purchased intangible assets and share-based compensation expense. Our future gross margins could be impacted by our product mix and by our movement into market adjacencies that have lower gross margins, such as the consumer market with our sales of Flip Video cameras as well as Cisco Unified Computing System products. Our gross margins may also be impacted by the geographic mix of our revenue or by increased sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing, which may be attributable to competitive factors. In recent periods our manufacturing-related costs have been negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. If any of the preceding factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods, our product and service gross margins could decline. Service Gross Margin Our service gross margin percentage decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010, primarily due to advanced services representing a higher proportion of service revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 relative to the prior year period. Additionally, share-based compensation expense increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010. We had a slight decline in technical support service gross margin, which was primarily a result of increased support service delivery costs partially offset by increased volume. We had an increase in our advanced services gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010, primarily due to strong volume growth partially offset by higher delivery team costs, which were partially headcount related. Our revenue from advanced services may increase to a higher proportion of total service revenue due to our continued focus on providing comprehensive support to our customers networking devices, applications, and infrastructures. Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract initiations in our renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and resources to support the overall service portion of our business. Other factors include the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services. 46 Table of Contents The following table presents the gross margin for each segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Amount Percentage October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Gross margin: United States and Canada $ 3,788 $ 3,285 64.4 % 65.8 % European Markets 1,315 1,246 65.2 % 68.4 % Emerging Markets 757 544 62.3 % 63.0 % Asia Pacific Markets 1,054 902 64.3 % 67.0 % Segment Total 6,914 5,977 64.3 % 66.3 % Unallocated corporate items (1) (159 ) (89 ) Total $ 6,755 $ 5,888 62.8 % 65.3 % (1) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and share-based compensation expense. We do not allocate these items to gross margin for each segment because management does not include the information in measuring the performance of the operating segments. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the gross margin percentage in the United States and Canada segment declined compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010, primarily due to higher sales discounts, rebates and pricing; lower services gross margin and unfavorable product mix. Partially offsetting the decline were the impacts from increased shipment volume and lower overall manufacturing costs. The gross margin percentage in the European Markets segment decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the prior year period due primarily to higher sales discounts, rebates and pricing and unfavorable mix, partially offset by higher shipment volume and lower overall manufacturing costs. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the gross margin percentage in the Emerging Markets segment decreased compared with the first quarter of 2010 primarily due to higher sales discounts; rebates and pricing; and increased services costs, all together partially offset by increased shipment volume and lower overall manufacturing costs. The gross margin percentage in the Asia Pacific Markets segment decreased during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the prior year period primarily due to higher sales discounts; unfavorable mix; and increased services costs, all together partially offset by the impact of increased shipment volume and lower overall manufacturing costs. For each of our segments, the negative impact of sales discounts, rebates and product pricing was driven by normal market factors and was within our expected range. The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions as well as our movement into market adjacencies and could decline if any of the factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods. Factors That May Impact Net Sales and Gross Margin Net product sales may continue to be affected by factors including the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty, that have resulted in reduced or cautious spending in our global enterprise, service provider, and commercial markets; changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition, including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix of our customers between service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer. Sales to the service provider market have been and may be in the future characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain products within our New Products category. In addition, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including network design services; and often have acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain of our customers in the Emerging Markets segment also tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, especially in the Emerging Markets segment, which may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. 47 Table of Contents Net product sales may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market; price and product competition in the communications and information technology industry; introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products; adoption of new networking standards; and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers ability to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same quarter. For additional factors that may impact net product sales, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs. In addition, increasing sales to our distributors and retail partners generally result in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue for sales to our distributors and retail partners generally based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs. Product gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including further periods of increased growth of some of our lower margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages; our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost structures, as a result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially those from China; changes in geographic mix of our product sales; the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs, including share-based compensation expense; excess inventory and obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing; effects of value engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and operating plans. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and advanced services; the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals; share-based compensation expense; and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business. Research and Development (R&D), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative (G&A) Expenses R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 1,431 $ 1,224 $ 207 16.9 % Percentage of net sales 13.3 % 13.6 % Sales and marketing 2,402 2,010 392 19.5 % Percentage of net sales 22.3 % 22.3 % General and administrative 458 425 33 7.8 % Percentage of net sales 4.3 % 4.7 % Total $ 4,291 $ 3,659 $ 632 17.3 % Percentage of net sales 39.9 % 40.6 % As noted above, since many of our recent headcount-related investments were based on projections of higher revenue than we currently anticipate for the second quarter of 2011, we expect that operating expenses as a percentage of revenue will increase in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. R&D Expenses R&D expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010, primarily due to higher headcount-related expenses, increased share-based compensation expense, and higher equipment expenditures and depreciation. All of our R&D costs are expensed as incurred, and we continue to invest in R&D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, enter into partner relationships, or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R&D. 48 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010 due to an increase of $296 million in sales expenses and an increase of $96 million in marketing expenses. Both the sales expense and the marketing expense components of the category increased during the period due to higher headcount-related expenses and higher share-based compensation expense. Additionally, and separately, sales expenses increased due to the impact of acquisitions while higher advertising expenses contributed further to the increase in marketing expenses. G&A Expenses The increase in G&A expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was due to higher share-based compensation expense, higher headcount-related expenses, and higher information technology expenses. These increases were partially offset by the absence during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 of certain non-income tax related expenses which were included in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Effect of Foreign Currency In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased the combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by $26 million, or approximately 0.7%, compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Headcount Our headcount increased by approximately 1,900 employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, which was attributable to targeted hiring as part of our investment in growth initiatives. We expect that our headcount additions in the near term will target areas where we see business momentum and opportunity. Share-Based Compensation Expense The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense (in millions): Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Cost of salesproduct $ 15 $ 12 Cost of salesservice 43 33 Share-based compensation expense in cost of sales 58 45 Research and development 121 97 Sales and marketing 164 128 General and administrative 64 51 Share-based compensation expense in operating expenses 349 276 Total share-based compensation $ 407 $ 321 Share-based compensation expense increased for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010 due primarily to a change in vesting periods from five to four years for awards granted beginning in fiscal 2009, the timing of annual employee grants, and the overall growth in headcount on a year-over-year basis. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets and In-Process Research and Development The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses and in-process R&D (in millions): Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses $ 113 $ 105 The increase in the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2010 was due to increased amortization of purchased intangible assets from acquisitions completed during fiscal 2010. For additional information regarding purchased intangibles, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 49 Table of Contents The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest Income and Interest Expense A summary of interest income and interest expense is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Interest income $ 160 $ 168 Interest expense (166 ) (114 ) Total $ (6 ) $ 54 The decrease in interest income in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was primarily due to lower average interest rates partially offset by higher average total cash and cash equivalents and fixed income securities balances compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The increase in interest expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010 was due to additional interest expense related to our debt issuances in November 2009. Other Income, Net The components of other income, net, are as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 October 24, 2009 Net gains on investments in publicly traded equity securities $ 19 $ 11 Net gains on investments in fixed income securities 71 6 Total net gains on available-for-sale investments 90 17 Net gains on investments in privately held companies 18 30 Net gains on investments 108 47 Other (losses) gains, net (28 ) 14 Other income, net $ 80 $ 61 The change in total net gains on available-for-sale investments in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010 was primarily attributable to higher gains on fixed income and publicly traded equity securities as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the unrealized gains and losses on investments. The change in net gains on investments in privately held companies for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010 was primarily due to lower realized gains, partially offset by lower impairment charges in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $3 million and $10 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The change in other (losses) gains, net for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2010 was primarily due to foreign exchange losses in the current period compared with gains in the prior period. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 20.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared with 20.2% for the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The net 0.2% increase in the effective tax rate between fiscal years was primarily attributable to the expiration of the U.S. federal R&D tax credit during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 offset by a decrease in non-deductible compensation. 50 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, as well as the impacts of our contractual obligations, other commitments, and the stock repurchase program on our liquidity and capital resources. Balance Sheet and Cash Flows Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions): October 30, 2010 July 31, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,796 $ 4,581 $ (785 ) Fixed income securities 33,790 34,029 (239 ) Publicly traded equity securities 1,339 1,251 88 Total $ 38,925 $ 39,861 $ (936 ) The decrease in cash and cash equivalents and investments in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was primarily the result of the repurchase of common stock of $2.7 billion and capital expenditures of $0.3 billion, partially offset by cash provided by operations of $1.7 billion and proceeds from common stock issuance of $0.4 billion related to employee stock option exercises. Our total in cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside of the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $35.1 billion and $33.2 billion, as of October 30, 2010 and July 31, 2010, respectively. The remaining balance held in the United States as of October 30, 2010 and July 31, 2010 was $3.8 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes. Of our outstanding senior fixed-rate notes, $3.0 billion matures and is repayable in February 2011. Accordingly, we may use a substantial portion of our cash and cash equivalents and investments held in the United States to repay these notes upon maturity. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our fixed income portfolio consisting primarily of the highest quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, for the repurchase of shares of common stock, and for fulfilling our intention to begin paying a cash dividend. We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, deferred revenue, excess tax benefits resulting from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Accounts Receivable, Net The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions) and DSO: October 30, 2010 July 31, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Accounts receivable, net $ 4,471 $ 4,929 $ (458 ) DSO 38 41 (3 ) Our accounts receivable, net declined approximately 9% compared with the end of fiscal 2010. Our DSO as of October 30, 2010 was lower by three days compared with the total for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The decline was a reflection of the improvement in distribution of shipment billings over the three month period within the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, a higher proportion of billings took place in the final month of the quarterly period. 51 Table of Contents Inventories and Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers The following table summarizes our inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns): October 30, 2010 July 31, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Inventories $ 1,523 $ 1,327 $ 196 Annualized inventory turns 11.2 12.6 (1.4 ) Purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers $ 4,048 $ 4,319 $ (271 ) The decrease in our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers reflects improvement in lead times and the mitigation of many of the constraints at our component suppliers that we experienced in fiscal 2010. While we may experience longer than normal lead times in the future, our lead times improved on nearly all of our products in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. At the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2011, product lead times to customers were within a normal range for nearly all of our products. Inventories increased during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 primarily as a result of seasonality related to our video connected home business, specifically related to video systems, Flip Video products, and networked home products. Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished goods. Distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners as well as shipments to customers. Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and build-to-stock products. Service-related spares consist of reusable equipment related to our technical support and warranty activities. All inventories are accounted for at the lower of cost or market. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Our purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity. We record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with our valuation method for excess and obsolete inventory. The purchase commitments for inventory are expected to be primarily fulfilled within one year. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels. Financing Receivables and Guarantees The following table summarizes our financing receivables, financing guarantees, and the related deferred revenue (in millions): October 30, 2010 July 31, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Lease receivables $ 2,360 $ 2,196 $ 164 Financed service contracts 1,758 1,773 (15 ) Loan receivables 1,262 1,249 13 Gross financing receivables less unearned income 5,380 5,218 162 Financing guaranteeschannel partner 412 448 (36 ) Financing guaranteesend-user customers 294 304 (10 ) Gross financing receivables and guarantees 6,086 5,970 116 Allowances for financing receivables (335 ) (301 ) (34 ) Deferred revenue related to financing receivables and guarantees (2,649 ) (2,681 ) 32 Financing receivables and guarantees, net $ 3,102 $ 2,988 $ 114 52 Table of Contents Financing Receivables We provide financing to certain end-user customers and channel partners to enable sales of our products, services, and networking solutions. These financing arrangements include leases, financed service contracts, and loans. Arrangements related to leases and loans are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables include sales-type and direct-financing leases. We also provide certain qualified customers financing for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. We expect to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term. Financing Guarantees In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners and, in some cases, we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Historically, our payments under such arrangements have been immaterial. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed. Deferred Revenue Related to Financing Receivables and Guarantees The majority of the deferred revenue in the table above is related to financed service contracts. The revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred and included in deferred service revenue. The revenue related to financed service contracts is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed. A portion of the revenue related to lease and loan receivables is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue recognition criteria. Borrowings Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions): October 30, 2010 July 31, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Senior notes : 5.25% fixed-rate notes, due 2011 (2011 Notes) $ 3,000 $ 3,000 $ 2.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 (2014 Notes) 500 500 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2016 (2016 Notes) 3,000 3,000 4.95% fixed-rate notes, due 2019 (2019 Notes) 2,000 2,000 4.45% fixed-rate notes, due 2020 (2020 Notes) 2,500 2,500 5.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2039 (2039 Notes) 2,000 2,000 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2040 (2040 Notes) 2,000 2,000 Total $ 15,000 $ 15,000 $ Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of October 30, 2010. Other Notes and Borrowings Other notes and borrowings include notes and credit facilities with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain of our foreign subsidiaries. The amount of borrowings outstanding under these arrangements was $43 million and $59 million as of October 30, 2010 and July 31, 2010, respectively. Credit Facility We have a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of Americas prime rate as announced from time to time, or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard & Poors Ratings Services and Moodys Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. 53 Table of Contents We may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $1.9 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to August 15, 2014. As of October 30, 2010, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. Deferred Revenue The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions): October 30, 2010 July 31, 2010 Increase (Decrease) Service $ 7,169 $ 7,428 $ (259 ) Product 3,567 3,655 (88 ) Total $ 10,736 $ 11,083 $ (347 ) Reported as: Current $ 7,420 $ 7,664 $ (244 ) Noncurrent 3,316 3,419 (103 ) Total $ 10,736 $ 11,083 $ (347 ) The decrease in deferred service revenue reflects the ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue, partially offset by the impact of new contract initiations and renewals, which typically are seasonally lower in the first quarter. The decrease in deferred product revenue was primarily due to a decrease in shipments not having met revenue recognition criteria and due to the timing of cash receipts related to unrecognized revenue from two-tier distributors. Operating Leases We lease office space in several U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites are located in Australia, Belgium, China, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom. We also lease equipment and vehicles. The future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of October 30, 2010 were $1.3 billion. Other Commitments In connection with our business combinations and asset purchases, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones, or upon continued employment with us of certain employees of acquired entities. We expect to make a milestone payment during the second quarter of fiscal 2011 of approximately $300 million related to Nuova Systems. As of October 30, 2010 the associated liability amount is included in other current liabilities. We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately-held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $257 million as of October 30, 2010, compared with $279 million as of July 31, 2010. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and customer financings and have determined that as of October 30, 2010 there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities. Additionally, we have determined that our potential maximum exposure to loss with investments in these privately held companies and customer financings was not material. On an ongoing basis, we reassess our investments in privately held companies and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance. As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events. 54 Table of Contents We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the discussion of these financing guarantees under Financing Receivables and Guarantees. Securities Lending We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale investments. These transactions, with a daily balance averaging less than 25% of our total available-for-sale investments portfolio, are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security, and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against any collateral losses. As of October 30, 2010 and July 31, 2010, we had no outstanding securities lending transactions. We believe these arrangements do not present a material impact or risk to our liquidity requirements. We did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented. Stock Repurchase Program In September 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of October 30, 2010, our Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $72 billion of common stock under this program and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $4.5 billion with no termination date. In addition, on November 18, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $10 billion of our common stock under this program with no termination date. The stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program, reported based on the trade date, during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts): Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 Shares Repurchased Weighted- Average Price per Share Amount Repurchased Cumulative balance at July 31, 2010 3,127 $ 20.78 $ 64,982 Repurchase of common stock under the stock repurchase program 113 22.14 2,500 Cumulative balance at October 30, 2010 3,240 $ 20.83 $ 67,482 Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements We intend to begin paying a cash dividend on our common stock during fiscal 2011. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations and ability to access capital markets and committed credit lines, will satisfy our liquidity requirements including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, contractual obligations, commitments, principal payments on debt, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations through at least the next 12 months. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity, the availability, and our requirements for capital resources. 55 Table of Contents