Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, endeavors, strives, may, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview A summary of our results is as follows (in millions, except percentages and per-share amounts): Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Variance Net sales $ 11,256 $ 10,750 4.7 % Gross margin percentage 61.2 % 62.8 % (1.6 ) pts Research and development $ 1,375 $ 1,431 (3.9 ) % Sales and marketing $ 2,452 $ 2,402 2.1 % General and administrative $ 552 $ 458 20.5 % Total R&D, sales and marketing, general and administrative $ 4,379 $ 4,291 2.1 % Total as a percentage of revenue 38.9 % 39.9 % (1.0 ) pts Amortization of purchased intangible assets $ 99 $ 113 (12.4 ) % Restructuring and other charges $ 202 $ NM Operating margin percentage 19.6 % 21.9 % (2.3 ) pts Net income $ 1,777 $ 1,930 (7.9 ) % Net income as a percentage of revenue 15.8 % 18.0 % (2.2 ) pts Earnings per sharediluted $ 0.33 $ 0.34 (2.9 ) % Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 Compared with Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 Net sales increased 5%, with net product sales increasing 3% and service revenue increasing 12%. We achieved net sales increases across each of our geographic segments. Total gross margin declined by 1.6 percentage points primarily as a result of higher sales discounts and unfavorable product pricing and product mix shifts offset by lower manufacturing costs and higher volume. As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses collectively decreased by 1.0 percentage points. Restructuring and other charges in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 totaled $202 million. Diluted earnings per share decreased by 2.9% from the prior year period, a result of a 7.9% decrease in net income, the impact of which was partially offset by a decline in our diluted share count of 268 million shares which primarily resulted from our stock repurchase program. For further details see our Results of Operations discussion beginning on page 43. In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we experienced improvement in our business momentum continuing from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. We also are beginning to achieve benefits from our restructuring and organizational changes made to simplify our operating model and to align to our five foundational priorities. For the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we experienced balanced revenue growth across most of our geographic segments and customer markets. In addition, we experienced positive net sales growth trends within several of our key priority areas including Collaboration, Service Provider Video, Data Center, and increased Service revenue. Our gross margin performance in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, while negative overall on a year-over-year basis, nonetheless, in our view, reflected some consistency with respect to our Switching product portfolio. Total Switching gross margins for the quarter were consistent with gross margin levels achieved in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, reflecting a return on our value engineering investments as we undergo product transitions related to our Cisco Nexus products. On a companywide basis, the gross margin impacts we experienced during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 from discounts and pricing actions were within our expected range and were partially offset by cost savings. We continue to execute on our planned $1 billion reduction to operating expenses and we believe that we are on track to meet the targets we committed to in fiscal 2011. These outcomes reflect the continued progress we are making on executing on our comprehensive action plan for growth and profitability. We continue to monitor and be cautious about the global macroeconomic environment and the impact that it may have on our business including the potential impacts from the macroeconomic challenges in Europe and the global economy, continued weakness in public sector spending, and the flooding in Thailand that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. 34 Table of Contents In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as we aligned our operations to support our five foundational priorities, we reorganized our geographic segments into the following segments: the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China (APJC). We have recast our reportable segment data for the periods presented to reflect such change. We continue to manage our business primarily on a geographic basis. Additionally, to better align our reporting of product revenues to our five foundational priorities, as of the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we have regrouped our product classifications. We regrouped our presentation of products and technologies (formerly grouped as Routers, Switches, New Products, and Other) into new categories called Switching, Next Generation Network (NGN) Routing, Collaboration, Service Provider Video, Wireless, Security, Data Center and Other Products. Strategy and Focus Areas We announced a plan in May 2011, which we began implementing in fiscal 2011 and expect to complete in fiscal 2012, to realign our sales, service and engineering organizations in order to simplify our operating model and focus on our five foundational priorities: Leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services) which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions Collaboration Data center virtualization and cloud Video Architectures for business transformation We believe that focusing on these priorities will best position us to continue to expand our share of our customers information technology spending. We are currently undergoing product transitions in our core business including the introduction of next-generation products with higher price performance and architectural advantages compared with both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth across these next-generation product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business conditions and, therefore, may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. However, we believe that these newly introduced products may continue to negatively impact product gross margins, which we are currently striving to address through various initiatives including value engineering, effective supply chain management, and delivering greater customer value through offers that include hardware, software, and services. We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions. Market transitions on which we are primarily focused include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, networked mobility technologies and the transition from Internet Protocol Version 4 to Internet Protocol Version 6. For example, a market in which a significant market transition is under way is the enterprise data center market, where a transition to virtualization/the cloud is rapidly evolving. There is a continued growing awareness that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows: Virtualization: refers to the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network. The cloud: refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software applications, are no longer tethered to a users physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user on demand as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously. This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions. 35 Table of Contents The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing. Very large, well-financed, and aggressive competitors are each bringing their own new class of products to address this new market. We expect this competitive market trend to continue. With respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers. Other market transitions on which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the increased role of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads, appear to be evolving even more quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, as customers evolve their communications and business models. We are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers. We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in the past in addressing market opportunities in the communications and IT industry will be adaptable to other markets. An example of a market where we aim to apply this approach is mobility, where growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be delivered on such devices. Net Sales For the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, net sales increased by 5%. Within this increase, net product sales increased 3% and service revenue increased 12%. With regard to our geographic segment performance, on a year-over-year basis net sales increased 4% in the Americas segment, 2% in our EMEA segment, and 11% in our APJC segment. Customer market net product sales performance in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 reflected increases, in order of largest percentage growth, in the service provider, commercial, and enterprise customer markets, partially offset by a decline in sales to the public sector market. From a product perspective, for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the 3% increase in net product sales reflected growth across many of our product categories. In particular, we experienced net sales increases of 12% in Collaboration, 13% in Service Provider Video, and 107% in Data Center. In our core product categories we experienced flat net sales growth in Switching, while NGN Routing declined 3%. The growth in Service revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was experienced across both the technical support services category and advanced services category, with revenue increases of 11% and 17%, respectively. Gross Margin In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, our gross margin percentage decreased by approximately 1.6 percentage points, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Within this total gross margin change, product gross margin declined by 2.5 percentage points, while service gross margin increased by 1.5 percentage points. The decrease in our product gross margin percentage was a result of higher sales discounts and unfavorable product pricing, and product mix shifts. Partially offsetting these decreases in product gross margin were lower overall manufacturing costs, higher shipment volume, and lower amortization expense from purchased intangible assets. The increase in our service gross margin was due to increased volume, partially offset primarily by increased costs and to a lesser degree, unfavorable mix impacts. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 increased by 6%, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011. For the first quarter of fiscal 2012, research and development expenses decreased 4%, sales and marketing expenses increased 2% and general and administrative expenses increased by approximately 21%. Operating expense as a percentage of revenue increased by 0.6 percentage points, primarily as a result of restructuring and other charges of $202 million in the current period partially offset by lower share-based compensation expense, lower acquisition-related costs, and lower expense from purchased intangible asset amortization. Other Key Financial Measures The following is a summary of our other key financial measures for the first quarter of fiscal 2012: We generated cash flows from operations of $2.3 billion and $1.7 billion during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments, were $44.4 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012, compared with $44.6 billion at the end of fiscal 2011. 36 Table of Contents Our total deferred revenue at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was $12.4 billion compared with $12.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2011. We repurchased approximately 100 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $15.37 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $1.5 billion during the first quarter of fiscal 2012. As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012, the remaining authorized repurchase amount under the stock repurchase program was $8.7 billion with no termination date. Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO) at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was 35 days, compared with 38 days at the end of fiscal 2011. Our inventory balance was $1.6 billion at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2012, compared with $1.5 billion at the end of fiscal 2011. Annualized inventory turns were 11.2 in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and were 11.8 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 30, 2011, as updated as applicable in Note 2 herein, describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria have been met: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists. Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Delivery has occurred. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery. The fee is fixed or determinable. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. Collectibility is reasonably assured. We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include services, the multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine the unit of accounting, and the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the relative selling price. Revenue is recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for each unit of accounting are met. The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our valuation of the units of accounting for multiple deliverables. According to the accounting guidance prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition , we use vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) for each of those units, when available. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median selling price. VSOE exists across most of our product and service offerings. In certain limited circumstances when VSOE does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy to applicable multiple-deliverable arrangements. Under the selling price hierarchy, third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) will be considered if VSOE does not exist, and estimated selling price (ESP) will be used if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Generally, we are not able to determine TPE because our go-to-market strategy differs from that of others in our markets, and the extent of customization varies among comparable products or services from our peers. In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company-specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting. 37 Table of Contents Some of our sales arrangements have multiple deliverables containing software and related software support components. Such sale arrangements are subject to the accounting guidance in ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition. As our business and offerings evolve over time, our pricing practices may be required to be modified accordingly, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and ESP in subsequent periods. There were no material impacts during the quarter nor do we currently expect a material impact in the next twelve months on our revenue recognition due to any changes in our VSOE, TPE, or ESP. Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements, service, support, and other factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our deferred revenue for products was $4.1 billion and $3.7 billion as of October 29, 2011 and July 30, 2011, respectively. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which typically is from one to three years. Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. Our deferred revenue for Service was $8.3 billion and $8.5 billion as of October 29, 2011 and July 30, 2011, respectively. We make sales to distributors and retail partners and generally recognize revenue based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. If actual credits received by our distributors and retail partners under these programs were to deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected. Allowances for Receivables and Sales Returns The allowances for receivables were as follows (in millions, except percentages): October 29, 2011 July 30, 2011 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 180 $ 204 Percentage of gross accounts receivable 4.0 % 4.2 % Allowance for credit losslease receivables $ 233 $ 237 Percentage of gross lease receivables 7.6 % 7.6 % Allowance for credit lossloan receivables $ 103 $ 103 Percentage of gross loan receivables 7.0 % 7.0 % The allowances are based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of these allowances by considering internal factors such as historical experience, credit quality and age of the receivable balances as well as external factors such as economic conditions that may affect a customers ability to pay, historical default rates, and long-term historical loss rates published by major third-party credit-rating agencies. We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances. In addition, we evaluate the credit quality of our financing receivables and any associated allowance for credit loss by applying the relevant loss factors based on our internal credit risk rating for the respective financing receivables, disaggregated by segment and class. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Determination of loss factors associated with internal credit risk ratings is complex and subjective. Our ongoing consideration of all these factors could result in an increase in our allowance for credit loss in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. Similarly, if a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates, if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other circumstances arise, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue. Both accounts receivable and financing receivables are charged off at the point when they are considered uncollectible. A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of October 29, 2011 and July 30, 2011 was $119 million and $106 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable. If the actual future returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected. Inventory Valuation and Liability for Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers Our inventory balance was $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion as of October 29, 2011 and July 30, 2011, respectively. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of October 29, 2011, the liability for these purchase commitments was $164 million as compared with $168 million as of July 30, 2011, and was included in other current liabilities. 38 Table of Contents Our provision for inventory was $29 million and $19 million for the first quarters of fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $35 million and $12 million for the first quarters of fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers increased due to higher provisions related to certain component supplies that we secured for our extended needs and due to higher contract manufacturer excess and obsolescence charges. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, and accordingly gross margin could be adversely affected. We regularly evaluate our exposure for inventory write-downs and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence, particularly in light of current macroeconomic uncertainties and conditions and the resulting potential for changes in future demand forecast. Warranty Costs The liability for product warranties, included in other current liabilities, was $361 million as of October 29, 2011, compared with $342 million as of July 30, 2011. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overhead. Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities. The provision for product warranties issued during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was $151 million and $110 million, respectively. The increase in the provision was primarily due to increased shipment volume of products with higher warranty costs and longer warranty lives. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our gross margin could be adversely affected. Share-Based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense is presented as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Variance Share-based compensation expense $ 341 $ 407 $ (66 ) Prior to the initial declaration of a quarterly cash dividend on March 17, 2011, the fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units was measured based on an expected dividend yield of 0% as we did not historically pay cash dividends on our common stock. For awards granted on or subsequent to March 17, 2011, we used an annualized dividend yield based on the per share dividends declared by our Board of Directors. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The determination of the fair value of employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. For employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights, these variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, the risk-free interest rate, and expected dividends as of the grant date. For employee stock options, we used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, we used the implied volatility for traded options (with lives corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on our stock. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The valuation of employee stock options is also impacted by kurtosis and skewness, which are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns and the actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Because share-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. 39 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $39.6 billion as of October 29, 2011 as compared with $36.9 billion as of July 30, 2011. Our fixed income investment portfolio, as of October 29, 2011, consisted primarily of high quality investment-grade securities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As described more fully in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, a valuation hierarchy is based on the level of independent, objective evidence available regarding the value of the investments. It encompasses three classes of investments: Level 1 consists of securities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical securities; Level 2 consists of securities for which observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs are used, such as quoted prices for similar securities in active markets or quoted prices for identical securities in less active markets and model-derived valuations for which the variables are derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data; and Level 3 consists of securities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value. Our Level 2 securities are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from independent pricing vendors, quoted market prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate fair value of our assets and liabilities. We use such pricing data as the primary input, to which we have not made any material adjustments during fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, to make our assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of our investment portfolio. We are ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates. The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information, and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to its estimate of fair value. The assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio, and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and assumptions affected by levels of subjectivity and judgment was material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of October 29, 2011. Level 3 assets do not represent a significant portion of our total investment portfolio as of October 29, 2011. Other-Than-Temporary Impairments We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described in the prior sentence, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit loss, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information, including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral. For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. There were no material impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity securities in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 or the first quarter of fiscal 2011. There were no material impairment charges on investments in fixed income securities in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of October 29, 2011, our investments in privately held companies were $898 million as compared to $796 million as of July 30, 2011, and were included in other assets. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment and will make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $1 million and $3 million for the first quarters of fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 40 Table of Contents Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Asset Impairments Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. The assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets. The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of each of October 29, 2011 and July 30, 2011 was $16.8 billion. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill in the first quarters of fiscal 2012 and 2011. We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that a impairment may exist. Recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Our impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets were not material for the periods presented. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, research and development (R&D) tax credits, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, international realignments, and transfer pricing adjustments. Our effective tax rate was 20.8% and 20.4% in the first quarters of fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R&D cost-sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 41 Table of Contents Loss Contingencies We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 42 Table of Contents Results of Operations Net Sales The following table presents the breakdown of net sales between product and service revenue (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: Product $ 8,952 $ 8,700 $ 252 2.9 % Percentage of net sales 79.5 % 80.9 % Service 2,304 2,050 254 12.4 % Percentage of net sales 20.5 % 19.1 % Total $ 11,256 $ 10,750 $ 506 4.7 % Our net sales, which include product and service revenue for each geographic segment, are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: Americas $ 6,588 $ 6,316 $ 272 4.3 % Percentage of net sales 58.5 % 58.8 % EMEA 2,845 2,795 50 1.8 % Percentage of net sales 25.3 % 26.0 % APJC 1,823 1,639 184 11.2 % Percentage of net sales 16.2 % 15.2 % Total $ 11,256 $ 10,750 $ 506 4.7 % Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 Compared with Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 For the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, net sales increased by 5%. Our net product sales and service revenue totals each reflected sales growth across most of our geographic segments, except that product sales in EMEA were flat. The overall net sales increase was due to the strong performance of our service solutions and strong sales growth in our collaboration, service provider video, and data center product categories. We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on sales has not been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our sales to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our sales are influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations. In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, including a reduced IT spending environment and budget-driven reductions in spending by government entities, net sales by segment in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple-element arrangements; the mix of financing arrangements provided to our channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition, which in turn would impact the net sales of the relevant segment. As has been the case in certain of our emerging countries from time to time, customers require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support and this may occur in future periods, which may also impact the timing of the recognition of revenue. 43 Table of Contents Net Product Sales by Segment The following table presents the breakdown of net product sales by segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: Americas $ 5,057 $ 4,959 $ 98 2.0 % Percentage of net product sales 56.5 % 57.0 % EMEA 2,371 2,376 (5 ) (0.2 )% Percentage of net product sales 26.5 % 27.3 % APJC 1,524 1,365 159 11.6 % Percentage of net product sales 17.0 % 15.7 % Total $ 8,952 $ 8,700 $ 252 2.9 % Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 Compared with Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 Americas Net product sales in the Americas segment for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 increased 2% compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011. The increase in net product sales was across most of our customer markets in the Americas segment, led by growth in the enterprise and commercial markets and, to a lesser degree, in the service provider market. We experienced a net sales decline in the public sector market. This decline in the public sector market was driven primarily by lower sales to the U.S. public sector, resulting from lower sales to the U.S. federal government and state and local governments. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by 7% in Canada, 18% in Brazil, and 52% in Mexico. We experienced a net product sales decline of 1% in the United States. EMEA Net product sales in the EMEA segment for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 were flat compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011. From a customer market perspective we experienced net product sales increases in the service provider and enterprise markets; however, these increases were offset by a net product sales decline in the public sector and commercial markets. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by 14% in the United Kingdom, 11% in France, and 4% in each of Germany and Russia. These increases were offset by net product sales decreases of 31%, 23%, and 21% in Spain, Italy, and Portugal, respectively. APJC Net product sales in the APJC segment for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 increased 12% compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011. The increase was led by strong net product sales growth in the service provider and commercial markets and, to a lesser degree, growth in the enterprise market. The public sector market in APJC experienced a net product sales decline. From a country perspective, net product sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011 increased by approximately 42% in China and 16% in Japan. We experienced year-over-year net product sales declines of 20% in India and 2% in Australia. Net Product Sales by Groups of Similar Products In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to groups of similar products and customer markets for various purposes. Our newly-reorganized product categories consist of the following categories (with subcategories in parentheses): Switching (fixed switching, modular switching, storage); NGN Routing (high-end routers, mid-range and low-end routers, optical); Collaboration (unified communications and Cisco TelePresence); Security; Wireless; Service Provider Video (cable and cable modem, video systems); and Other Products. The Other Products category consists primarily of Linksys-related products, emerging technology products, and Application Network Services. 44 Table of Contents The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: Switching $ 3,675 $ 3,689 $ (14 ) (0.4 )% Percentage of net product sales 41.1 % 42.5 % NGN Routing 2,108 2,177 (69 ) (3.2 )% Percentage of net product sales 23.5 % 25.0 % Collaboration 1,093 977 116 11.9 % Percentage of net product sales 12.2 % 11.2 % Service Provider Video 879 778 101 13.0 % Percentage of net product sales 9.8 % 8.9 % Wireless 362 334 28 8.4 % Percentage of net product sales 4.0 % 3.8 % Security 320 290 30 10.3 % Percentage of net product sales 3.6 % 3.3 % Data Center 259 125 134 107.2 % Percentage of net product sales 2.9 % 1.5 % Other 256 330 (74 ) (22.4 )% Percentage of net product sales 2.9 % 3.8 % Total $ 8,952 $ 8,700 $ 252 2.9 % Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 Compared with Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 Switching Our Switching product category consists of switching and storage products. Net product sales in our Switching product category were relatively flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, which was due to the combined effect of continuing transitions taking place in our product portfolio, lower public sector spending, and the impact of competitive pressures. Within our Switching product category, higher sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches and storage products were offset by lower sales of modular switches. Sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches increased 10%, or $196 million, while sales of modular switches decreased 14%, or $238 million. The increase in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to increased sales of Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series Switches, Cisco Nexus 2000 and 5000 Series Switches, and the Cisco Catalyst 3750 Series Switches partially offset by decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 3560 Series Switches. Net product sales in our Switching product category were positively impacted by a 22% increase in sales of storage products as a result of new customer growth. The decrease in sales of modular switches was primarily due to decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switches and Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Switches, partially offset by increased sales of Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches. NGN Routing Our NGN Routing product category consists of routing and optical products. We categorize our routers primarily as high-end and mid range/low-end routers. Net product sales in our NGN Routing product category declined 3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The decline in sales of our NGN Routing product category in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was driven by a 16%, or $123 million, collective decrease in sales of our midrange and low-end routers. Partially offsetting lower sales of midrange and low-end router products was a 4%, or $49 million increase in sales of our high-end router products. Within the high-end router products category, the increase was driven by higher sales of Cisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASR) 5000 products, Cisco CRS-3 Carrier Routing System products, and higher sales of the Cisco ASR 1000 and Cisco ASR 9000 products. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Cisco 12000 Series Routers and Cisco 7600 Series Routers. Sales of other NGN Routing products increased by 2%, or $5 million. Collaboration In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, sales of Collaboration products increased by 12%, or $116 million. The increase was due to a 13% increase in sales of unified communications products, primarily IP phones and collaborative web-based offerings, along with a 9% increase in sales of Cisco TelePresence systems. Service Provider Video In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, sales of Service Provider Video products increased by 13%, or $101 million. Sales of cable and cable modem products increased by 33% or $60 million, while sales of video systems and other increased by 7% or $41 million. 45 Table of Contents Wireless In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, sales of Wireless products increased by 8%, or $28 million, reflecting the continued customer adoption of and migration to the Cisco Unified Wireless Network architecture. Security In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, sales of Security products increased by 10%, or $30 million primarily due to growth in our network security products and, to a lesser degree, growth in data content security products. Data Center In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, sales of Data Center products increased by 107%, or $134 million, due to sales growth of 116%, or $137 million, of Cisco Unified Computing System products. Other Products The decrease in sales of Other Products during the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, was primarily due to lower sales of Pure Digital products in connection with our decision to exit this product line. Service Revenue by Segment Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Service revenue: Americas $ 1,531 $ 1,357 $ 174 12.8 % Percentage of net product sales 66.4 % 66.2 % EMEA 474 419 55 13.1 % Percentage of net product sales 20.6 % 20.4 % APJC 299 274 25 9.1 % Percentage of net product sales 13.0 % 13.4 % Total $ 2,304 $ 2,050 $ 254 12.4 % Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 Compared with Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 Service revenue increased across all of our geographic segments in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, with double-digit percentage revenue growth in the Americas and EMEA segments. The increase in total Service revenue was balanced across technical support services, which had revenue growth of 11%, and advanced services, which had revenue growth of 17%. In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, technical support services revenue had solid revenue growth across all of our geographic segments, while advanced services had strong revenue growth in the Americas and to a lesser extent in EMEA. Advanced services revenue in APJC was flat for the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the prior year period. Renewals and technical support service contract initiations associated with recent product sales have resulted in a new installed base of equipment being serviced which contributed to these increases. 46 Table of Contents Gross Margin The following table presents the gross margin for product and service (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Amount Percentage October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Gross margin: Product $ 5,389 $ 5,451 60.2 % 62.7 % Service 1,501 1,304 65.1 % 63.6 % Total $ 6,890 $ 6,755 61.2 % 62.8 % Product Gross Margin The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the decrease in product gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011: Product Gross Margin Percentage First Quarter of Fiscal 2011 62.7 % Sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing (3.0 )% Mix of products sold (1.1 )% Overall manufacturing costs 1.0 % Shipment volume, net of certain variable costs 0.4 % Amortization of purchased intangible assets and other 0.2 % First Quarter of Fiscal 2012 60.2 % Product gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 decreased by 2.5 percentage points compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates, and unfavorable product pricing, which were driven by normal market factors and by the geographic mix of net product sales. These factors impacted most of our customer markets and all of our geographic segments. Additionally, our product gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was negatively impacted by the shift in the mix of products sold, primarily as a result of sales increases from our lower margin Cisco Unified Computing System products. These negative factors were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs and slightly higher shipment volume and lower amortization of purchased intangible assets in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The lower overall manufacturing costs were in part due to increased benefits from our value engineering efforts, particularly in certain of our switching products; favorable component pricing; and continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations. Value engineering is the process by which production costs are reduced through component redesign, board configuration, test processes, and transformation processes. Our future gross margins could be impacted by our product mix and by further growth in sales of products that have lower gross margins, such as Cisco Unified Computing System products. Our gross margins may also be impacted by the geographic mix of our sales or by increased sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing, which may be attributable to competitive factors. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. If any of the preceding factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods, our product and service gross margins could continue to decline. Service Gross Margin Our Service gross margin percentage increased by 1.5 percentage points for the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, with both technical support services and advanced services experiencing higher gross margins. This increase was primarily due to higher sales volume. The volume increases were partially offset by increased service delivery costs and unfavorable mix impacts. The unfavorable mix impacts were due to advanced services representing a higher proportion of service revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Gross margin in technical support services increased primarily as a result of increased sales volume and lower costs from outside services. These benefits were partially offset by increased headcount-related costs and higher supply chain costs. Advanced services gross margin increased primarily due to strong sales volume growth partially offset by higher delivery team costs, which were partially headcount related. Our revenue from advanced services may increase to a higher proportion of total service revenue due to our continued focus on providing comprehensive support to our customers networking devices, applications, and infrastructures. Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract initiations in our renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and resources to support the overall service business. Other factors include the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services. 47 Table of Contents Gross Margin by Segment The following table presents the total gross margin for each segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Amount Percentage October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Gross margin: Americas $ 4,160 $ 4,051 63.1 % 64.1 % EMEA 1,754 1,809 61.7 % 64.7 % APJC 1,108 1,054 60.8 % 64.3 % Segment total 7,022 6,914 62.4 % 64.3 % Unallocated corporate items (1) (132 ) (159 ) Total $ 6,890 $ 6,755 61.2 % 62.8 % (1) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and share-based compensation expense, and significant asset impairments and restructurings. We do not allocate these items to gross margin for each segment because management does not include the information in measuring the performance of the operating segments. Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 Compared with Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we experienced a gross margin decline across all of our geographic segments as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011. In the Americas segment, the gross margin decline was due primarily to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing. These decreases were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs and increased shipment volume. The gross margin decrease in our EMEA segment was primarily the result of mix impacts; higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing; and lower service gross margin due to increased headcount-related costs. These decreases were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing costs and increased volume. The APJC segment experienced the largest gross margin percentage decline due primarily to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing, along with lower service gross margin due to increased headcount-related costs. In particular, the higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing in the APJC segment were driven by several large NGN Routing transactions which carried relatively higher discounts. These decreases were partially offset by mix impacts, lower overall manufacturing costs, and increased shipment volume. The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions as well as our movement into new market opportunities and could decline if any of the factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods. Factors That May Impact Net Sales and Gross Margin Net product sales may continue to be affected by factors, including global economic downturns and related market uncertainty, that have resulted in reduced or cautious spending in our enterprise, service provider, public sector, and commercial markets; changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition, including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix of our customers between service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer. Sales to the service provider market have been and may be in the future characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain products within our collaboration and data center product categories. In addition, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including network design services; and often have acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain of our customers in certain emerging countries also tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, especially in certain emerging countries, which in turn may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. 48 Table of Contents Net product sales may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market; price and product competition in the communications and information technology industry; introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products; adoption of new networking standards; and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers ability to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same quarter. For additional factors that may impact net product sales, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs. Increased sales to our distributors and retail partners generally result in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue for sales to our distributors and retail partners generally based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs. Product gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including periods of increased growth of some of our lower margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages; our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost structures, as a result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially those from China; changes in geographic mix of our product sales; the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs, including share-based compensation expense; excess inventory and obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing; effects of value engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and operating plans. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and advanced services; the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals; share-based compensation expense; and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business. Research and Development (R&D), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative (G&A) Expenses R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 1,375 $ 1,431 $ (56 ) (3.9 )% Percentage of net sales 12.2 % 13.3 % Sales and marketing 2,452 2,402 50 2.1 % Percentage of net sales 21.8 % 22.3 % General and administrative 552 458 94 20.5 % Percentage of net sales 4.9 % 4.3 % Total $ 4,379 $ 4,291 $ 88 2.1 % Percentage of net sales 38.9 % 39.9 % In fiscal 2012 we plan to reduce our annualized expense run rate by approximately $1 billion from our annualized expense rate for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. The year-over-year changes within operating expenses, including the effects of foreign currency exchange rates, net of hedging, are summarized by line item as follows: Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 Compared with Three Months Ended October 30, 2010 R&D Expenses The decrease in R&D expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, was primarily due to lower share-based compensation expense, lower acquisition-related expense, and lower headcount-related expenses. We continue to invest in R&D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, or we may partner with or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R&D. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due to an increase of $91 million in sales expenses, partially offset by a decrease of $41 million in marketing expenses. The increase in sales expenses was due primarily to higher headcount-related expense and higher overall discretionary spending, partially offset by lower share-based compensation expense. The decrease in marketing expenses for the period was due to lower advertisement expenses. 49 Table of Contents G&A Expenses G&A expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011 due to increased corporate-level expenses, which tend to vary from period to period. The corporate-level expenses include increases related to our operational infrastructure such as real estate; IT project implementations, which include further investments in our global data center infrastructure; and investments related to operational and financial systems. Partially offsetting these increases were lower share-based compensation expense, and lower acquisition-related expenses. Effect of Foreign Currency In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased the combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by $94 million, or approximately 2%, compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Headcount For the first quarter of 2012, our headcount decreased by 8,360 employees. The decrease was attributable to headcount reductions from the sale of our Juarez, Mexico manufacturing operations and from our restructuring activities. We expect to continue our targeted cost-cutting initiatives, which include some additional impacts from the workforce reduction announced in July 2011. Share-Based Compensation Expense The following table presents share-based compensation expense (in millions): Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Cost of salesproduct $ 13 $ 15 Cost of salesservice 37 43 Share-based compensation expense in cost of sales 50 58 Research and development 101 121 Sales and marketing 142 164 General and administrative 48 64 Share-based compensation expense in operating expenses 291 349 Total share-based compensation expense $ 341 $ 407 The year-over-year decrease in share-based compensation expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was due primarily to the timing of the annual grants to employees and a decrease in headcount. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses (in millions): Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses $ 99 $ 113 The decrease in amortization of purchased intangible assets was due to certain purchased intangible assets having become fully amortized and certain purchased intangible assets included in the prior year period that were subsequently impaired in fiscal 2011. For additional information regarding purchased intangible assets, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at the acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle, as appropriate. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets. 50 Table of Contents Restructuring and Other Charges In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we incurred within operating expenses restructuring charges of $202 million. We incurred no restructuring expenses in the corresponding period in fiscal 2011. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest Income and Interest Expense The following table summarizes interest income and interest expense (in millions): Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Variance in Dollars Interest income $ 164 $ 160 $ 4 Interest expense (148 ) (166 ) 18 Interest income (expense), net $ 16 $ (6 ) $ 22 Interest income increased slightly in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as increased income from financing receivables was partially offset by the effect of lower average interest rates on our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents, and fixed income investments. The decrease in interest expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, was due to the effect of lower average interest rates on our debt during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as compared with the prior year period. Other Income, Net The components of other income, net, are summarized as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended October 29, 2011 October 30, 2010 Variance in Dollars Gains (losses) on investments, net: Publicly traded equity securities $ (16 ) $ 19 $ (35 ) Fixed income securities 25 71 (46 ) Total available-for-sale investments 9 90 (81 ) Privately held companies 4 18 (14 ) Net gains on investments 13 108 (95 ) Other gains (losses), net 6 (28 ) 34 Other income, net $ 19 $ 80 $ (61 ) The change in total net gains on available-for-sale investments in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was primarily attributable to lower gains on fixed income securities, and losses on publicly traded equity securities in the current period as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the unrealized gains and losses on investments. For the first quarter of fiscal 2012 as compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the decline in net gains on investments in privately held companies was primarily due to equity method losses related to our proportional share of losses related to our VCE joint venture. The decline was partially offset by slightly lower impairment charges on investments in privately held companies. The change in other gains (losses), net for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was primarily due to higher foreign exchange gains in the current period compared with losses in the prior period, partially offset by lower gains from customer lease terminations in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 20.8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with 20.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The net 0.4 percentage point increase in the effective tax rate between fiscal years was primarily attributable to a decrease in foreign income taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35% partially offset by a decrease in state income taxes and non-deductible compensation. 51 Table of Contents Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates. Our provision for income taxes does not include provisions for U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that we intend to reinvest indefinitely in our foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, as well as the impacts of our contractual obligations, other commitments, and the stock repurchase program on our liquidity and capital resources. Balance Sheet and Cash Flows Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions): October 29, 2011 July 30, 2011 Increase (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,747 $ 7,662 $ (2,915 ) Fixed income securities 38,264 35,562 2,702 Publicly traded equity securities 1,377 1,361 16 Total $ 44,388 $ 44,585 $ (197 ) The decrease in cash and cash equivalents and investments in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was primarily the result of the repurchase of common stock (net of the issuance of common stock related to employee stock incentive plans) of $1.7 billion, capital expenditures of $0.3 billion, cash dividends paid of $0.3 billion, and investments in privately held companies of $0.1 billion. These decreases were partially offset by cash provided by operations of $2.3 billion, an increase from $1.7 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2011 was primarily the result of increased deferred revenue and lower tax payments, partially offset by restructuring payments in the first quarter of 2012. Our total in cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside of the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $40.6 billion and $39.8 billion as of October 29, 2011 and July 30, 2011, respectively. The balance held in the United States as of October 29, 2011 and July 30, 2011 was $3.8 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States were to be distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our fixed income investment portfolio consisting primarily of high quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and dividends. We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, deferred revenue, excess tax benefits resulting from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this report. Accounts Receivable, Net The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions) and DSO: October 29, 2011 July 30, 2011 Decrease Accounts receivable, net $ 4,300 $ 4,698 $ (398 ) DSO 35 38 (3 ) Our accounts receivable net, as of October 29, 2011 declined by approximately 8.5% compared with the end of fiscal 2011. Our DSO as of October 29, 2011 was lower by 3 days compared with the end of fiscal 2011. The decrease in DSO during the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was the due to product and service billings linearity improvement, particularly with respect to the timing of product shipments. Service billings have traditionally had the effect of increasing DSO due in part to the timing of billings, which in comparison to product billings have a larger proportion billed in the latter part of the quarter. As services revenue over time has increased as a percentage of our total revenue, this has contributed to a higher DSO level in comparison to levels we experienced in past years. We believe that the current DSO level is in line with levels we expect in the near future. 52 Table of Contents Inventories and Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers The following table summarizes our inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns): October 29, 2011 July 30, 2011 Increase (Decrease) Inventories $ 1,622 $ 1,486 $ 136 Annualized inventory turns 11.2 11.8 (0.6 ) Purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers $ 4,178 $ 4,313 $ (135 ) Inventories as of October 29, 2011 increased by 9% from our balance at the end of fiscal 2011, and for the same period purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were down approximately 3%. On a combined basis, inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were flat compared with the end of fiscal 2011. We believe our inventory and purchase commitments are in line with our current demand forecasts. The inventory increase was due to higher levels of manufactured finished goods due to forecast demand, higher levels of distributor inventory, and higher deferred cost of sales. Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished goods. Distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners as well as shipments to customers. Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and build-to-stock products. All inventories are accounted for at the lower of cost or market. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. During fiscal 2011, due to the earthquake in Japan and resulting industry-wide component supply constraints, we made increased commitments to secure our near-term supply needs. The decline in purchase commitments in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 was due in part to an improvement in lead times related to Japan supply constraints. We are continuing to actively monitor and evaluate the flooding situation in Thailand which occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 . We have business continuity plans in place in order to minimize any potential impact to our supply chain as a result of the flooding in Thailand, which impacts we expect to continue for the next several quarters. At this time, we are anticipating a minimal financial impact for our second quarter of fiscal 2012 as a result of the events in Japan and Thailand. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Our purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity. We record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. The purchase commitments for inventory are expected to be primarily fulfilled within one year. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels. Financing Receivables and Guarantees We measure our net balance sheet exposure position related to our financing receivables and financing guarantees by reducing the total of gross financing receivables and financing guarantees by the associated allowances for credit loss and deferred revenue. As of October 29, 2011, our net balance sheet exposure position related to financing receivables and financing guarantees was as follows (in millions): FINANCING RECEIVABLES FINANCING GUARANTEES TOTAL October 29, 2011 Lease Receivables Loan Receivables Financed Service Contracts and Other Total Channel Partner End-User Customers Total Gross amount less unearned income $ 2,849 $ 1,468 $ 2,557 $ 6,874 $ 349 $ 259 $ 608 $ 7,482 Allowance for credit loss (233 ) (103 ) (29 ) (365 ) (365 ) Deferred revenue (101 ) (238 ) (1,940 ) (2,279 ) (261 ) (234 ) (495 ) (2,774 ) Net balance sheet exposure $ 2,515 $ 1,127 $ 588 $ 4,230 $ 88 $ 25 $ 113 $ 4,343 53 Table of Contents Financing Receivables Gross financing receivables less unearned income have decreased by 1% compared with the end of fiscal 2011. The change was primarily due to a 3% decrease in gross financed service contracts while the growth in gross lease receivables and loan receivables was flat. We provide financing to certain end-user customers and channel partners to enable sales of our products, service, and networking solutions. These financing arrangements include leases, financed service contracts, and loans. Arrangements related to leases are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables include sales-type and direct-financing leases. We also provide certain qualified customers financing for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. We expect to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term. Financing Guarantees In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are de-recognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and in some cases we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Historically, our payments under such arrangements have been immaterial. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed. Deferred Revenue Related to Financing Receivables and Guarantees The majority of the deferred revenue in the preceding table is related to financed service contracts. The revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred and included in deferred service revenue. The revenue related to financed service contracts is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed. A portion of the revenue related to lease and loan receivables is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue recognition criteria. Borrowings Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions): October 29, 2011 July 30, 2011 Senior notes: Floating-rate notes, due 2014 $ 1,250 $ 1,250 2.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 500 500 1.625% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 2,000 2,000 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2016 3,000 3,000 3.15% fixed-rate notes, due 2017 750 750 4.95% fixed-rate notes, due 2019 2,000 2,000 4.45% fixed-rate notes, due 2020 2,500 2,500 5.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2039 2,000 2,000 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2040 2,000 2,000 Total $ 16,000 $ 16,000 Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Interest is payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of October 29, 2011. Commercial Paper In fiscal 2011 we established a short-term debt financing program of up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper notes. As of each October 29, 2011 and July 30, 2011, we had commercial paper notes of $500 million outstanding under this program. Other Notes and Borrowings Other notes and borrowings include notes and credit facilities with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain of our foreign subsidiaries. The amount of borrowings outstanding under these arrangements was $89 million and $88 million as of October 29, 2011 and July 30, 2011, respectively. Credit Facility We have a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of Americas prime rate as announced from time to time or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard & Poors Ratings Services and Moodys Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. 54 Table of Contents We may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $1.9 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to August 15, 2014. As of October 29, 2011, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. Deferred Revenue The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions): October 29, 2011 July 30, 2011 Increase (Decrease) Service $ 8,321 $ 8,521 $ (200 ) Product 4,075 3,686 389 Total $ 12,396 $ 12,207 $ 189 Reported as: Current $ 8,444 $ 8,025 $ 419 Noncurrent 3,952 4,182 (230 ) Total $ 12,396 $ 12,207 $ 189 The decrease in deferred service revenue reflects the ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue, partially offset by the impact of new contract initiations. The increase in deferred product revenue was primarily related to increased deferrals related to subscription revenue arrangements and, to a lesser extent, increased two-tier deferred revenue due to improved shipment linearity to two-tier partners during the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Contractual Obligations Operating Leases We lease office space in several U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites are located in Australia, Belgium, China, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom. We also lease equipment and vehicles. The future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of October 29, 2011 were $1.2 billion. Other Commitments In connection with our business combinations and asset purchases, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or continued employment with us of certain employees of acquired entities. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $145 million as of October 29, 2011 compared with $192 million as of July 30, 2011. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and customer financings, and we have determined that as of October 29, 2011 there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities. VCE is a joint venture that we formed in fiscal 2010 with EMC, with investments from VMware and Intel. VCE helps organizations leverage best-in-class technologies and disciplines from Cisco, EMC, and VMware to enable the transformation to cloud computing. As of October 29, 2011, our cumulative investment in the combined VCE entity was approximately $205 million and we owned approximately 35% of the outstanding equity. We account for our investment in VCE under the equity method, and accordingly our carrying value in VCE was approximately $95 million, which reflects our cumulative share of VCEs losses. Over the next 12 months, as VCE scales its operations, we expect that we will make additional investments in VCE and may incur additional losses, in proportion to our ownership percentage. 55 Table of Contents On an ongoing basis, we reassess our investments in privately held companies and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance. As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events. We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the previous discussion of these financing guarantees under Financing Receivables and Guarantees. Securities Lending We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale investments. These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. The average balance of securities lending for the three months ended October 29, 2011 and October 30, 2010 was $1.7 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against any collateral losses. As of October 29, 2011 and July 30, 2011, we had no outstanding securities lending transactions. We believe these arrangements do not present a material risk or impact to our liquidity requirements. We did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented. Stock Repurchase Program and Dividends In September 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of October 29, 2011, our Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $82 billion of common stock under this program, and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $8.7 billion with no termination date. The stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program, reported based on the trade date, is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts): Shares Repurchased Weighted- Average Price per Share Amount Repurchased Cumulative balance at July 30, 2011 3,478 $ 20.64 $ 71,773 Repurchase of common stock under the stock repurchase program 100 $ 15.37 1,544 Cumulative balance at October 29, 2011 3,578 $ 20.49 $ 73,317 During the first quarter of fiscal 2012, cash dividends of $0.06 per share, or $322 million, were declared on our outstanding common stock and paid during the same period. Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and committed credit lines will satisfy, through at least the next 12 months, our liquidity requirements, both in total and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect the liquidity and the availability of, as well as our requirements for, capital resources.