Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, endeavors, strives, may, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, our results reflected an 8% increase in net sales compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The results for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 represent the third consecutive quarter of positive sequential revenue growth and the first quarter of positive year-over-year revenue growth since the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Net income in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 increased by 23% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2009, while for the first six months of fiscal 2010, net income decreased by 2% compared with the first six months of fiscal 2009. In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, net income per diluted share increased by 23% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher revenue and a higher gross margin percentage. Strategy and Focus Areas Our strategy centers on the increasing role of intelligent networks, collaboration and Web 2.0 technologies, the United States and selected emerging countries, the network as the platform, and resource management and realignment. Consistent with our strategy during the recent economic downturn, we will continue to seek to expand our share of our customers information technology spending. We will endeavor to achieve this objective by focusing on our core networking capabilities while continuing to expand into product markets similar, related, or adjacent to those in which we currently are active, which we refer to as market adjacencies. We have continued our focus on our core networking capabilities and have expanded our movement into market adjacencies primarily through the realignment of resources, while simultaneously reducing our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue. We refer to the evolutionary process by which adjacencies arise as market transitions. Specifically, we believe the key market transitions currently taking place in our industry pertain to virtualization, video, and collaboration. Virtualization is the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus providing the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network. Due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization and the rise in scalable processing, a significant market transition appears to be under way in the enterprise data center market. We believe the market is at an inflection point, as awareness grows that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We further believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market will accelerate in the next several months. This market transition is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to capitalize on this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. 39 Table of Contents The competitive landscape in our markets has changed, and we expect there will be a new class of very large, well-financed and aggressive competitors, each bringing its own new class of products to address this new enterprise data center market. Despite the increased competition, we continue to believe that, with respect to this new enterprise data center market, the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect to continue and strengthen certain strategic alliances, as we have already done, and compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors, in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers. Other market transitions on which we are focusing attention include those related to the increased role of video and collaboration across our customer markets. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video and collaboration which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads, appear to be evolving even faster than we had anticipated earlier this year. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of our product offerings that have incorporated video and collaboration as customers evolve their communications and business models. We will continue to focus on enhancing multiproduct and multivendor interoperability to encourage faster customer adoption. We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in our core networking technologies in the communications and information technology industry will be adaptable to other markets. Examples of market adjacencies where we aim to apply this approach are the consumer market and electrical services infrastructure market. For the consumer market, through collaboration with technology partners, retailers, service providers, and content publishers, we are striving to create compelling consumer experiences and make the network the platform for a variety of services in the home, as broadband development moves from a device-centric phase to a network-centric model. In the electrical services infrastructure market, we are developing an architecture for managing energy in a highly secure fashion on electrical grids at various steps from energy generation to consumption in homes and buildings. Our approach of focusing on our core networking technologies and moving into market adjacencies has contributed to the growth we experienced in the past. Recently we have delivered several new products, and we are pleased with the breadth and depth of our innovation across almost all aspects of our business and the impact that we believe this innovation will have on our long-term prospects. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in difficult business conditions and may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. Revenue For the second quarter of fiscal 2010, our total revenue increased by 8% year over year, which included revenue increases in four of our geographic theaters, and a revenue decline in our European Markets theater. The results for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 reflect what we believe to be an improving economic environment across all of our geographic theaters. For our European Markets theater, despite the year-over-year decline in sales in this theater in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we experienced sequential revenue growth in this theater. From a customer market perspective during the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we saw an improved environment for capital expenditures across our enterprise, commercial, and service provider markets. Our net product sales increased year over year across all of our categories of similar products in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, while our net product sales for the first six months of fiscal 2010 declined across almost all categories, except for sales of our products under the category of other, which reflected positive year-over-year revenue growth. The year-over-year revenue increase in the other category was driven primarily by sales of Flip video cameras from our acquisition of Pure Digital Technologies, Inc. (Pure Digital), which we acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. In the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010, our revenue from routing products increased by 2% and decreased by 9%, respectively, compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009. In the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010, our revenue from switching products increased by 13% and decreased by 6%, respectively, compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009. Sales of our advanced technologies for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 were up 1% year over year, and decreased by 7% year over year for the first six months of fiscal 2010. 40 Table of Contents Gross Margin In the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010, our gross margin percentage increased by approximately 1.5 and 1.0 percentage points, respectively, compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009. The increase in gross margin percentage for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was a result of higher product gross margin as our service gross margin percentage was relatively flat year over year. The year-over-year increase in the product gross margin percentage during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was primarily due to lower overall manufacturing costs, favorable product mix and higher shipment volume offset by unfavorable impacts attributable to sales discounts, rebates and product pricing. Operating Expenses For the second quarter of fiscal 2010, operating expenses were relatively flat in absolute dollars compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2009, but decreased as a percentage of revenue. Operating expenses for the first six months of fiscal 2010 decreased, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue, compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009, primarily due to lower discretionary expenses, lower headcount-related expenses, and lower acquisition-related compensation expenses. Other Key Financial Measures In any rapidly shifting supply and demand environment such as the one we are currently experiencing, shifts in lead times, inventory levels, purchase commitments, and manufacturing outputs will occur. For the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we experienced a higher percentage of our total quarterly shipments in our January month compared with the same month in previous second quarters, which resulted in an increase to our accounts receivable and days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO). Similar to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products. This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our overall markets, and similar to what is happening in the industry, the longer than normal lead time extensions also stemmed from supplier constraints based upon their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn. While we may continue to experience longer than normal lead times, our lead times improved throughout the second quarter of fiscal 2010. If lead times for key components lengthen further as the economic environment continues to improve, our operating results for a particular future period could be adversely affected. The following is a summary of our other financial measures for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010: We generated cash flows from operations of $2.5 billion and $4.0 billion during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments, were $39.6 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2010, compared with $35.0 billion at the end of fiscal 2009. The balance at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2010 reflects our issuance of senior notes in November 2009, for an aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion. Our deferred revenue at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was $9.7 billion, compared with $9.4 billion at the end of fiscal 2009. We repurchased 63 million shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase program for $1.5 billion during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 and 139 million shares of our common stock for $3.3 billion for the first six months of fiscal 2010. As of end of the second quarter of fiscal 2010, the remaining authorized repurchase amount under this program was $11.6 billion with no termination date. DSO at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was 39 days, compared with 34 days at the end of fiscal 2009. Our inventory balance was $1.2 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2010, compared with $1.1 billion at the end of fiscal 2009. Annualized inventory turns were 12.1 in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 and were 11.7 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were $3.3 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2010, compared with $2.2 billion at the end of fiscal 2009. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 25, 2009, as updated where applicable in Note 2 herein, describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 41 Table of Contents The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria have been met: When persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists. Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Delivery has occurred. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery. The fee is fixed or determinable. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. Collectibility is reasonably assured. We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customers payment history. In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include services, the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each respective element based on its relative selling price and recognized when revenue recognition criteria for each element are met. In October 2009, the FASB amended the accounting standards for revenue recognition to remove tangible products containing software components and nonsoftware components that function together to deliver the products essential functionality from the scope of industry-specific software revenue recognition guidance. In October 2009, the FASB also amended the accounting standards for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements to: (i) provide updated guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, and on how the deliverables in an arrangement should be separated and how the consideration should be allocated; (ii) require an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices (ESP) of deliverables if a vendor does not have vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) or third-party evidence of selling price (TPE); and (iii) eliminate the use of the residual method and require an entity to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method. We elected to early adopt this accounting guidance at the beginning of our first quarter of fiscal 2010 on a prospective basis for applicable transactions originating or materially modified after July 25, 2009. The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our determinations surrounding whether VSOE exists. In the certain limited circumstances when VSOE does not exist, we then apply judgment with respect to whether we can obtain TPE. Generally, we are not able to determine TPE because our go-to-market strategy differs from that of our peers. In the limited number of circumstances in which we are unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, we will use ESP in our allocation of arrangement consideration. We determine VSOE based on its normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical stand-alone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median rates. In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting. There were no material impacts during the quarter nor do we currently expect a material impact in future periods from changes in VSOE, TPE, or ESP. In terms of the timing and pattern of revenue recognition, the new accounting guidance for revenue recognition is not expected to have a significant effect on net sales in subsequent periods after the initial adoption when applied to multiple element arrangements based on current go-to-market strategies due to the existence of VSOE across most of our product and service offerings. However, we expect that this new accounting guidance will facilitate our efforts to optimize our offerings due to better alignment between the economics of an arrangement and the accounting. This may lead to us engaging in new go-to-market practices in the future. In particular, we expect that the new accounting standards will enable us to better integrate products and services without VSOE into 42 Table of Contents existing offerings and solutions. As these go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and ESP. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements could differ materially from the results in the current period. We are currently unable to determine the impact that the newly adopted accounting guidance could have on our revenue as these go-to-market strategies evolve. Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements, service, support, and other factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our total deferred revenue for products was $3.3 billion and $2.9 billion as of January 23, 2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which typically is from one to three years. Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. Our total deferred revenue for services was $6.3 billion and $6.5 billion as of January 23, 2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively. We make sales to distributors and retail partners and recognize revenue based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. If actual credits received by our distributors and retail partners under these programs were to deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected. Allowances for Receivables and Sales Returns The allowances for receivables were as follows (in millions, except percentages): January 23, 2010 July 25, 2009 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 240 $ 216 Percentage of gross accounts receivable 5.4 % 6.4 % Allowance for lease receivables $ 208 $ 213 Percentage of gross lease receivables 9.6 % 10.7 % Allowance for loan receivables $ 116 $ 88 Percentage of gross loan receivables 9.6 % 10.2 % The allowances are based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of these allowances by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, age of the receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customers ability to pay. In addition, we perform credit reviews and statistical portfolio analysis to assess the credit quality of our receivables. We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances. If a major customers creditworthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other circumstances arise, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue. A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of January 23, 2010 and July 25, 2009 was $68 million and $75 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable. If the actual future returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected. Inventory Valuation and Liability for Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers Our inventory balance was $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion as of January 23, 2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of January 23, 2010, the liability for these purchase commitments was $162 million, compared with $175 million as of July 25, 2009, and was included in other current liabilities. 43 Table of Contents Our provision for inventory was $36 million and $25 million for the first six months of fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $11 million and $79 million for the first six months of fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers and gross margin could be adversely affected. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence. Warranty Costs The liability for product warranties, included in other current liabilities, was $328 million as of January 23, 2010, compared with $321 million as of July 25, 2009. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overhead. Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities. The provision for product warranties issued during the first six months of fiscal 2010 and 2009 was $219 million and $194 million, respectively. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our gross margin could be adversely affected. Share-Based Compensation Expense Total share-based compensation expense for the six months ended January 23, 2010 and January 24, 2009 was $692 million and $602 million, respectively. The determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. For employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights, these variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, risk-free interest rate, and expected dividends. For employee stock options, we used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, we used the implied volatility for traded options (with lives corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on our stock. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The valuation of employee stock options is also impacted by kurtosis and skewness, which are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns, and the actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Because share-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. Fair Value Measurements of Investments Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $34.9 billion as of January 23, 2010, compared with $29.3 billion as of July 25, 2009. Our fixed income investment portfolio consists primarily of high-quality investment grade securities and as of January 23, 2010 had a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As described more fully in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, a valuation hierarchy was established based on the level of independent, objective evidence available regarding the value of the investments. It encompasses three classes of investments: Level 1 consists of securities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical securities; Level 2 consists of securities for which observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs are used, such as prices for similar securities in active markets or for identical securities in less active markets and model-derived valuations for which the variables are derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data; and Level 3 consists of securities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value. 44 Table of Contents Our Level 2 securities are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments, nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data, or discounted cash flow techniques in limited circumstances. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from independent pricing vendors, quoted market prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate fair value of our assets and liabilities. We use such pricing data as the primary input, to which we have not made any material adjustments during the periods presented, to make our assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of our investment portfolio. We are ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates. The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to their estimate of fair value. In the current market environment, the assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio, and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and assumptions affected by levels of subjectivity and judgment was material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of January 23, 2010. Level 3 assets do not represent a significant portion of our total investment portfolio as of January 23, 2010. Other-Than-Temporary Impairments We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. Effective at the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we were required to evaluate our fixed income securities for other-than-temporary impairments subject to new accounting guidance. Pursuant to this accounting guidance, if the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described above, the entire difference between the amortized cost basis and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit losses, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral. For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. There were no impairment charges on investments in fixed income securities and publicly traded equity securities that were recognized in earnings in the first six months of fiscal 2010, while such impairment charges for the first six months of 2009 were $237 million. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described above could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of January 23, 2010, our investments in privately held companies were $769 million, compared with $709 million as of July 25, 2009, and were included in other assets. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment and will make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $14 million and $53 million during the first six months of fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. 45 Table of Contents Goodwill Impairments Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill is measured as a residual as of the acquisition date which, in most cases, results in measuring goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of net assets acquired, including any contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. Effective in fiscal 2010, the assessment of fair value for goodwill and other long-lived intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets. The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 23, 2010 and July 25, 2009 was $14.4 billion and $12.9 billion, respectively. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill in the first six months of fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, research and development (R&D) tax credits, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, international realignments, and transfer pricing adjustments. Our effective tax rate was 21.3% and 19.5% in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. The effective tax rate was 20.8% and 17.2% for the first six months of fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R&D cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 46 Table of Contents Loss Contingencies We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 47 Table of Contents Net Sales The following table presents the breakdown of net sales between product and service revenue (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: Product $ 7,976 $ 7,347 $ 629 8.6 % $ 15,176 $ 15,982 $ (806 ) (5.0 )% Service 1,839 1,742 97 5.6 % 3,660 3,438 222 6.5 % Total $ 9,815 $ 9,089 $ 726 8.0 % $ 18,836 $ 19,420 $ (584 ) (3.0 )% We manage our business primarily on a geographic basis, organized into five geographic theaters. Our net sales, which include product and service revenue, for each theater are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: United States and Canada $ 5,324 $ 4,736 $ 588 12.4 % $ 10,314 $ 10,285 $ 29 0.3 % Percentage of net sales 54.2 % 52.0 % 54.8 % 53.0 % European Markets 1,939 2,008 (69 ) (3.4 )% 3,761 4,161 (400 ) (9.6 )% Percentage of net sales 19.8 % 22.1 % 20.0 % 21.4 % Emerging Markets 1,104 1,089 15 1.4 % 1,967 2,318 (351 ) (15.1 )% Percentage of net sales 11.2 % 12.0 % 10.4 % 11.9 % Asia Pacific 1,075 923 152 16.5 % 2,034 1,945 89 4.6 % Percentage of net sales 11.0 % 10.2 % 10.8 % 10.0 % Japan 373 333 40 12.0 % 760 711 49 6.9 % Percentage of net sales 3.8 % 3.7 % 4.0 % 3.7 % Total $ 9,815 $ 9,089 $ 726 8.0 % $ 18,836 $ 19,420 $ (584 ) (3.0 )% For the second quarter of fiscal 2010, net sales increased across four of our geographic theaters compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The increased sales represent a recovery from the market weakness we experienced for most of fiscal 2009. As the economic downturn began with weakness in the United States and was then followed by downturns in the other geographic theaters, the increased sales during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 were led by increases in the United States and Canada theater, with the Asia Pacific theater also showing strong year-over-year growth. We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on sales has not been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our sales to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our sales are influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations. In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, net sales by theater in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple element arrangements; the mix of financings provided to our channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. 48 Table of Contents Net Product Sales by Theater The following table presents the breakdown of net product sales by theater (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: United States and Canada $ 4,156 $ 3,632 $ 524 14.4 % $ 7,988 $ 8,079 $ (91 ) (1.1 )% Percentage of net product sales 52.1 % 49.5 % 52.6 % 50.5 % European Markets 1,649 1,730 (81 ) (4.7 )% 3,181 3,609 (428 ) (11.9 )% Percentage of net product sales 20.7 % 23.5 % 21.0 % 22.6 % Emerging Markets 950 930 20 2.2 % 1,658 2,022 (364 ) (18.0 )% Percentage of net product sales 11.9 % 12.7 % 10.9 % 12.7 % Asia Pacific 919 789 130 16.5 % 1,731 1,685 46 2.7 % Percentage of net product sales 11.5 % 10.7 % 11.4 % 10.5 % Japan 302 266 36 13.5 % 618 587 31 5.3 % Percentage of net product sales 3.8 % 3.6 % 4.1 % 3.7 % Total $ 7,976 $ 7,347 $ 629 8.6 % $ 15,176 $ 15,982 $ (806 ) (5.0 )% United States and Canada Net product sales in the United States and Canada theater during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 increased compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009, due to an improvement in the economic environment in this theater. In the enterprise and commercial markets our net product sales increased in this theater in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009, while net product sales were relatively flat in the first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009. Within the enterprise market, net product sales to the U.S. federal government increased on a year-over-year basis for both the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010. For the first six months of fiscal 2010, we experienced decreased sales to the service provider market in this theater, but we experienced positive business momentum in this market during the second quarter of fiscal 2010. Our net product sales in the consumer market during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 increased compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009 due to sales of Flip video cameras from our acquisition of Pure Digital in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. From a product perspective, the year-over-year increase in net product sales in this theater during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was driven in large part by higher sales of our switching products. European Markets Net product sales in the European Markets theater during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 decreased compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009. Our European Markets theater was weaker relative to other theaters on a year-over-year basis, which we believe was attributable in part to the fact that many of the countries in this theater were among the last countries to begin experiencing the recent economic downturn, and consequently we expect that many of these countries will recover later as a result. In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we experienced a decline in net product sales to the service provider market in this theater, which was partially offset by slight increases in net product sales to the enterprise and commercial markets. Net product sales decreased on a year-over-year basis for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 in most of the larger countries in this theater including Germany, Italy, and Spain. Emerging Markets In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, net product sales in the Emerging Markets theater increased slightly compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2009, primarily as a result of increased sales to our service provider market. Regarding some of the larger countries in this theater, in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, Brazil showed significant year-over-year growth while we experienced a year-over-year decrease in net product sales in Russia. For the first six months of fiscal 2010, net product sales in the Emerging Markets theater decreased compared with the first six months of fiscal 2009, as a result of decreased sales across all customer markets. Certain of our customers in the Emerging Markets theater tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. Further, some customers may continue to require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support in future periods which may also impact the timing of recognition of the revenue for this theater. 49 Table of Contents Asia Pacific The increase in net product sales in the Asia Pacific theater in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009 was attributable to increased sales to our enterprise and service provider markets in this theater. We experienced particular strength in China, Australia, and South Korea during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010. Net product sales in India were down on a year-over-year basis for the first six months of fiscal 2010, despite India showing a slight increase in net product sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 on a year-over-year basis. Japan Net product sales in the Japan theater increased in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009, primarily due to an increase in net product sales to the enterprise and service provider markets. Net Product Sales by Groups of Similar Products The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: Routers $ 1,559 $ 1,526 $ 33 2.2 % $ 3,133 $ 3,425 $ (292 ) (8.5 )% Percentage of net product sales 19.5 % 20.8 % 20.6 % 21.4 % Switches 3,432 3,041 391 12.9 % 6,304 6,672 (368 ) (5.5 )% Percentage of net product sales 43.0 % 41.4 % 41.6 % 41.8 % Advanced technologies 2,381 2,365 16 0.7 % 4,654 5,031 (377 ) (7.5 )% Percentage of net product sales 29.9 % 32.2 % 30.7 % 31.5 % Other 604 415 189 45.5 % 1,085 854 231 27.0 % Percentage of net product sales 7.6 % 5.6 % 7.1 % 5.3 % Total $ 7,976 $ 7,347 $ 629 8.6 % $ 15,176 $ 15,982 $ (806 ) (5.0 )% Routers Sales of our routers increased slightly in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2009, primarily due to an increase in sales of our high-end routers, which was due in part to sales from our acquisition of Starent, partially offset by a decrease in both the midrange and low-end routers. Within the high-end router category, the increase was also driven by increased sales of Cisco ASR 1000 Series Aggregation Service Routers and Cisco 7600 Series Routers, partially offset by lower sales of Cisco 12000 Series Routers. As our high-end router sales are primarily to service providers, such sales may be favorably or adversely impacted by, among other factors, the timing of capital expenditures by the global service provider customers and their tendency to make large and sporadic purchases. Sales of our routing products may also be impacted by our product upgrade cycles, and customer decisions to defer purchases in anticipation of or as they evaluate new products, such as the Cisco ASR 9000 Series Aggregation Service Routers and Cisco Integrated Service Routers Generation 2 (ISR G2). For the first six months of fiscal 2010, sales of our routers decreased across all categories compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009. The decrease in sales of high-end routers was primarily driven by the lower sales of Cisco 12000 Series Routers, partially offset by increased sales of Cisco ASR 1000 Series Aggregation Services Routers, ST-Series multimedia core platforms from Starent, Cisco 7600 Series Routers, and Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Routing Systems. The year-over-year decline in sales of low-end routers in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 of approximately $35 million and $110 million, respectively, and the decline in sales of midrange routers in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010, of approximately $40 million and $105 million, respectively, were each primarily due to a decline in sales of our legacy integrated services routers as customers are in the early transition stage to the ISR G2. Switches The increase in net product sales related to switches in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009 was due to increased sales of approximately $215 million and $180 million of our LAN fixed-configuration and modular switches, respectively. The increase in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to increased sales of Cisco Nexus 5000 and 2000 Series Switches, Cisco Catalyst 3750, and Cisco 2900 Series Switches. The increase in sales of modular switches was primarily due to the increased sales of our Cisco Nexus 7000 and Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Switches, partially offset by decreased sales of our Cisco Catalyst 6000 Series Switches. 50 Table of Contents Net product sales related to switches in the first six months of fiscal 2010 decreased compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009, due primarily to lower sales of our LAN fixed-configuration and modular switches of approximately $195 million and $160 million, respectively. The decrease in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to lower sales of our Cisco Catalyst 3750 and 3560 Series Switches partially offset by increased sales of our Cisco Nexus 5000 and 2000 Series Switches. The decrease in sales of modular switches was primarily due to lower sales of Cisco Catalyst 6000 and 4500 Series Switches, partially offset by increased sales of our Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches. Advanced Technologies The change in net product sales related to advanced technologies in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009 was primarily due to the following: Sales of unified communications products, which increased by approximately $100 million, primarily due to increased sales of IP phones, associated software, and higher sales of web-based collaborative offerings. Sales of wireless LAN products, which increased by approximately $20 million, primarily due to the adoption of and migration to the Cisco Unified Wireless Network architecture. Sales of video systems, which decreased by approximately $80 million, primarily due to decreased sales of digital set-top boxes. Sales of networked home products, which decreased by approximately $15 million, and sales of application networking services, which decreased by approximately $10 million. The decrease in sales of networked home products was primarily due to lower sales of adapters. The decrease in sales of application networking services was primarily related to lower customer demand for our data center application optimization solutions. The change in net product sales related to advanced technologies in the first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009 was primarily due to the following: Sales of video systems products, which decreased by approximately $265 million. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower demand for high-definition cable set-top boxes and IP set-top boxes. Sales of networked home products, which decreased by approximately $60 million, primarily due to lower sales of wireless routers for the connected home, and lower sales of adapters. Sales of application networking services, which decreased by approximately $45 million. The decrease was primarily related to lower customer demand for our data center application optimization solutions. Sales of security products, which decreased by approximately $40 million. Our decreased sales of security products were a result of the lower sales of module and line-cards related to our routers and LAN switches, as well as lower sales of security appliance products, partially offset by increased sales of our web and email security products. Sales of wireless LAN products, which increased by approximately $40 million, primarily due to the adoption of and migration to the Cisco Unified Wireless Network architecture. Other Product Revenue The increase in other product revenue in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010, compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009, was primarily due to inclusion of the sales of Flip video cameras from our acquisition of Pure Digital in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, of approximately $130 million and $185 million in the respective periods, and increased sales related to cable products and unified computing systems. 51 Table of Contents Net Service Revenue The increase in net service revenue in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009 was primarily due to higher revenue from technical support service contracts as well as increased revenue from advanced services, which relates to consulting support services for specific networking needs. Renewals and technical support service contract initiations associated with recent product sales have resulted in a new installed base of equipment being serviced and revenue is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed. The following table summarizes the year-over-year changes in net service revenue for each geographic theater: Three Months Ended January 23, 2010 Six Months Ended January 23, 2010 United States and Canada 5.8 % 5.4 % European Markets 4.3 % 5.1 % Emerging Markets (3.1 )% 4.4 % Asia Pacific 16.4 % 16.5 % Japan 6.0 % 14.5 % Gross Margin The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Amount Percentage Amount Percentage January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Gross margin: Product $ 5,161 $ 4,610 64.7 % 62.7 % $ 9,875 $ 10,264 65.1 % 64.2 % Service 1,171 1,113 63.7 % 63.9 % 2,345 2,140 64.1 % 62.2 % Total $ 6,332 $ 5,723 64.5 % 63.0 % $ 12,220 $ 12,404 64.9 % 63.9 % Product Gross Margin The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the year-over-year change in product gross margin for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010: PRODUCT GROSS MARGIN PERCENTAGE Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Fiscal 2009 62.7 % 64.2 % Sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing (1.9 )% (1.8 )% Shipment volume, net of certain variable costs 0.5 % (0.1 )% Mix of products sold 0.8 % 0.3 % Overall manufacturing costs 2.6 % 2.5 % Fiscal 2010 64.7 % 65.1 % Lower manufacturing costs were primarily driven by strong operational efficiency in our manufacturing operations, value engineering and a reduction in other manufacturing-related costs. Value engineering is the process by which production costs are reduced through component redesign, board configuration, test processes, and transformation processes. The mix of products sold during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was positively impacted by increased sales of certain higher margin switching products, partially offset by increased sales of consumer products. Our future gross margins could be impacted by the product mix and our movement into market adjacencies that have lower gross margins, such as the consumer market with its sales of Flip video cameras, as well as unified computing products. Our margins may also be impacted by the geographic mix of our revenue. If any of the above factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods, our product and service gross margins could decline. Service Gross Margin Our service gross margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was relatively flat compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009. The increase in service gross margin percentage for the first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009 was primarily due to higher technical support margin partially offset by lower advanced services margins. The service margin percentage for the first six months of fiscal 2010 was also impacted by the services mix, as 52 Table of Contents advanced services, which have a lower gross margin percentage than technical support services, constituted a higher proportion of total service revenue during the first six months of fiscal 2010. Technical support margins will experience some variability due to various factors such as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business. Our revenue from advanced services may increase to a higher proportion of total service revenue due to our continued focus on providing comprehensive support to our customers networking devices, applications, and infrastructures. Additionally, we have continued to invest in building out our technical support and advanced services capabilities in the Emerging Markets theater. The following table presents the gross margin for each theater (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Amount Percentage Amount Percentage January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Gross margin: United States and Canada $ 3,446 $ 3,027 64.7 % 63.9 % $ 6,744 $ 6,706 65.4 % 65.2 % European Markets 1,319 1,345 68.0 % 67.0 % 2,563 2,760 68.1 % 66.3 % Emerging Markets 727 648 65.9 % 59.5 % 1,269 1,428 64.5 % 61.6 % Asia Pacific 679 571 63.2 % 61.9 % 1,291 1,220 63.5 % 62.7 % Japan 271 228 72.7 % 68.5 % 552 482 72.6 % 67.8 % Theater Total 6,442 5,819 65.6 % 64.0 % 12,419 12,596 65.9 % 64.9 % Unallocated corporate items (1) (110 ) (96 ) (199 ) (192 ) Total $ 6,332 $ 5,723 64.5 % 63.0 % $ 12,220 $ 12,404 64.9 % 63.9 % (1) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and share-based compensation expense. We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each theater because management does not include the information in measuring the performance of the operating segments. In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, the gross margin percentage increased across all theaters driven primarily by lower overall manufacturing costs. The effects of increased shipment volume increased the gross margin percentage for all theaters except European Markets, and a favorable mix increased the gross margin percentage for all theater except the United States and Canada. The above favorable effects were offset by higher sales discounts and rebates for all theaters except the Japan theater. For the first six months of fiscal 2010, the gross margin percentage also increased across all theaters, although only slightly for the United States and Canada theater. The increase for all theaters was driven primarily by lower overall manufacturing costs. The effect of increased shipment volume in the Asia Pacific and Japan theaters also contributed to the higher gross margin percentage for these theaters. The mix of products and services sold contributed favorably to the gross margin in the Japan theater. These favorable effects were partially offset by higher sales discounts across all theaters except the Japan theater. Factors That May Impact Net Sales and Gross Margin Net product sales may continue to be affected by factors including the recent global economic downturn and related market uncertainty, which have resulted in reduced or cautious spending in our global enterprise, service provider, and commercial markets; changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition, including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix of our customers between service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer. Sales to the service provider market have been and may be in the future characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain advanced technologies. In addition, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including network design services; and often have acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain customers in the Emerging Markets theater also tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, especially in the Emerging Markets theater, which may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. 53 Table of Contents Net product sales may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market; price and product competition in the communications and information technology industry; introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products; adoption of new networking standards; and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers ability to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same quarter. For additional factors that may impact net product sales, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs. In addition, increasing sales to our distributors and retail partners generally results in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue for sales to our distributors and retail partners based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs. Product gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including further periods of increased growth of some of our lower margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages; our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost structures, as a result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially from China; changes in geographic mix of our product sales; the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs; excess inventory and obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing; effects of value engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and operating plans. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and advanced services, the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals, and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business. 54 Table of Contents Research and Development (R&D), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative (G&A) Expenses R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 1,247 $ 1,279 $ (32 ) (2.5 )% $ 2,471 $ 2,685 $ (214 ) (8.0 )% Percentage of net sales 12.7 % 14.1 % 13.1 % 13.8 % Sales and marketing 2,110 2,155 (45 ) (2.1 )% 4,105 4,438 (333 ) (7.5 )% Percentage of net sales 21.5 % 23.7 % 21.8 % 22.9 % General and administrative 467 380 87 22.9 % 907 775 132 17.0 % Percentage of net sales 4.8 % 4.2 % 4.8 % 4.0 % Total $ 3,824 $ 3,814 $ 10 0.3 % $ 7,483 $ 7,898 $ (415 ) (5.3 )% Percentage of net sales 39.0 % 42.0 % 39.7 % 40.7 % R&D Expenses The decrease in R&D expenses for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to lower headcount-related expenses and lower discretionary expenses. Lower acquisition-related compensation expenses for the first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2009 also contributed to the decrease in R&D expenses. Such acquisition-related compensation expenses were primarily associated with the achievement in the first six months of fiscal 2009 of certain agreed-upon milestones related to prior period acquisitions. All of our R&D costs are expensed as incurred, and we continue to invest in R&D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, partner, or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R&D. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 decreased slightly compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2009 primarily due to a decrease in sales expenses associated with various project-related and discretionary expenses, offset by an increase in marketing expenses related to increased advertising expenses primarily for certain of our consumer products. For the first six months of fiscal 2010, the decrease in sales and marketing expenses was a result of a decrease in headcount-related expenses; a decrease in discretionary expenses, which included travelling and professional services; and a decrease in various operational expenses. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in advertising expenses primarily for certain of our consumer products. G&A Expenses G&A expenses for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2010 increased compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009 primarily due to increased real estate-related expenses, increased information technology-related expenses and increased share-based compensation expenses. Higher headcount-related expenses also contributed to the increase in G&A expenses for the first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009. Effect of Foreign Currency Foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased total R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by $43 million, or approximately 1.1%, in the second quarter of fiscal 2010 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2009. In the first six months of fiscal 2010, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased total R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by $15 million, or approximately 0.2%, compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2009. Headcount Our headcount increased by approximately 2,100 employees in the second quarter of fiscal 2010, which was primarily due to the effects of our acquisitions of Starent and ScanSafe, as well as increased headcount resources in manufacturing. For the first six months of fiscal 2010, our headcount was up slightly. We expect to increase our headcount in the upcoming quarters based on what we believe to be more positive market conditions, and our hiring will be focused on productivity improvements and movement into new market adjacencies. 55 Table of Contents Share-Based Compensation Expense The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense (in millions): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Cost of salesproduct $ 15 $ 10 $ 27 $ 21 Cost of salesservice 41 32 74 63 Share-based compensation expense in cost of sales 56 42 101 84 Research and development 110 95 207 189 Sales and marketing 129 105 242 218 General and administrative 76 56 142 111 Share-based compensation expense in operating expenses 315 256 591 518 Total share-based compensation expense $ 371 $ 298 $ 692 $ 602 Share-based compensation expense related to acquisitions included above $ 26 $ 22 $ 54 $ 44 Share-based compensation expense increased for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2009 due primarily to the effects of straight-line vesting and a change in vesting periods from five to four years. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses (in millions): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Amortization of purchased intangible assets $ 138 $ 136 $ 243 $ 248 Under new accounting guidance, effective for acquisitions closing in fiscal 2010, acquired IPR&D assets from a business combination are capitalized as indefinite-lived intangible assets at acquisition date, and are assessed for impairment thereafter. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are charged to expense. The capitalized IPR&D asset is amortized upon completion of the development of the underlying marketable products. The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at acquisition date using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets. For additional information regarding purchased intangibles, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest Income and Interest Expense The following table summarizes interest income and interest expense (in millions): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Interest income $ 155 $ 222 $ 323 $ 481 Interest expense (158 ) (63 ) (272 ) (127 ) Total $ (3 ) $ 159 $ 51 $ 354 The decrease in interest income in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009 was primarily due to lower average interest rates partially offset by higher average total cash and cash equivalents and fixed income security balances compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009. The increase in interest expense in the second 56 Table of Contents quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009 was primarily due to additional interest expense related to our debt issuance in November 2009 and February 2009. Other Income (Loss), Net The components of other income (loss), net, are as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 January 23, 2010 January 24, 2009 Net gains (losses) on investments in publicly traded equity securities $ 17 $ (23 ) $ 28 $ 68 Net gains (losses) on investments in fixed income securities 14 (7 ) 20 (159 ) Total net gains (losses) on investments in publicly traded equity and fixed income securities 31 (30 ) 48 (91 ) Net gains (losses) on investments in privately held companies 6 (23 ) 36 (32 ) Net gains (losses) on investments 37 (53 ) 84 (123 ) Other gains and (losses), net (49 ) (11 ) (35 ) (13 ) Other income (loss), net $ (12 ) $ (64 ) $ 49 $ (136 ) The change in total net gains (losses) on fixed income and publicly traded securities in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 compared with the corresponding periods of fiscal 2009 was primarily attributable to the absence of impairment charges in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 for such investments. For the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2009, the net losses on fixed income securities included impairment charges of $19 million and $202 million, respectively, and net gains and losses on publicly traded equity securities included impairment charges of $18 million and $35 million, respectively. The impairment charges in the first six months of fiscal 2009 were partially offset by a gain related to the termination in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 of various forward sale agreements designated as fair value hedges of publicly traded equity securities. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the unrealized gains and losses on investments. The change in net gains (losses) on investments in privately held companies for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2010 was primarily due to higher realized gains and lower impairment charges in both periods of fiscal 2010. Net losses on investments in privately held companies included impairment charges of $4 million and $30 million for the second quarters of fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively, and $14 million and $53 million for the first six months of fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. Other losses, net for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 included a $38 million mark-to-market loss related to foreign exchange forwards and options to hedge a portion of the foreign currency consideration of our pending acquisition of Tandberg. For the first six months of fiscal 2010, other losses, net were primarily due to charitable donations. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 21.3% for the second quarter of fiscal 2010, compared with an effective tax rate of 19.5% for the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The net 1.8% point increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the expiration of the U.S. federal R&D tax credit during the second quarter of fiscal 2010, partially offset by higher foreign income taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%. The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 20.8% for the first six months of fiscal 2010, compared with 17.2% for the first six months of fiscal 2009. The net 3.6% point increase in the effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2010, as compared with the first six months of 2009, was primarily attributable to the inclusion of a tax benefit of $106 million, or 2.4% points, related to the retroactive portion of the U.S. federal R&D credit reinstatement during the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The remaining net increase in the effective tax rate was attributable to the expiration of the U.S. federal R & D tax credit during the second quarter of fiscal 2010, partially offset by higher foreign income taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35%. 57 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Developments In January 2010, the FASB issued revised guidance intended to improve the disclosures related to fair value measurements. This guidance requires new disclosures as well as clarifies certain existing disclosure requirements. New disclosures under this guidance require separate information about significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 and the reason for such transfers, as well as require purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements information for Level 3 measurement to be included in the rollforward of activity on a gross basis. The guidance also clarifies the requirement to determine the level of disaggregation for fair value measurement disclosures, and the requirement to disclose valuation techniques and inputs used for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements in either Level 2 or Level 3 This accounting guidance is effective for us beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, except for the rollforward of activity on a gross basis for Level 3 fair value measurement, which will be effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial statement disclosures. In June 2009, the FASB issued revised guidance for the accounting of transfers of financial assets. This guidance eliminates the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity; removes the scope exception for qualifying special-purpose entities when applying the accounting guidance related to the consolidation of variable interest entities; changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets; and requires enhanced disclosure. This accounting guidance is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2009, the FASB issued revised guidance for the accounting of variable interest entities. This guidance replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards approach with a qualitative approach that focuses on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entitys economic performance and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could be potentially significant to the variable interest entity. It also requires an ongoing reassessment of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary and requires additional disclosures about an enterprises involvement in variable interest entities. This accounting guidance is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. In November 2008, the SEC issued for comment a proposed roadmap outlining several milestones that, if achieved, could lead to mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by U.S. issuers in 2014. IFRS is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The roadmap also contained proposed rule changes that would permit early adoption of IFRS by a limited number of eligible U.S. issuers beginning with filings in 2010. According to the roadmap, the SEC would make a determination in 2011 regarding the mandatory adoption of IFRS. We are currently assessing the impact that this potential change would have on our consolidated financial statements, and we will continue to monitor the development of the potential implementation of IFRS as well as the ongoing convergence efforts of the FASB and the IASB. 58 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, contractual obligations, other commitments, and the stock repurchase program on our liquidity and capital resources. Balance Sheet and Cash Flows In any rapidly shifting supply and demand environment such as the one we are currently experiencing, shifts in lead times, inventory levels, purchase commitments, and manufacturing outputs will occur. For the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we experienced a higher percentage of the total quarterly shipments in our January month compared with the same month in previous second quarters, which resulted in an increase to our accounts receivable and DSO. Similar to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products. This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our overall markets, and similar to what is happening in the industry, the longer than normal lead times also stemmed from supplier constraints based upon their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn. While we may continue to experience longer than normal lead times, our lead times improved throughout the second quarter of fiscal 2010. Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions): January 23, 2010 July 25, 2009 Increase (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,710 $ 5,718 $ (1,008 ) Fixed income securities 33,856 28,355 5,501 Publicly traded equity securities 1,072 928 144 Total $ 39,638 $ 35,001 $ 4,637 The increase in cash and cash equivalents and investments was primarily a result of cash provided by operating activities of $4.0 billion, the issuance of common stock of $1.4 billion related to employee stock option exercises and employee stock purchases, the issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in November 2009, and approximately $270 million related to the change in unrealized gains and losses on publicly traded equity and fixed income securities as well as realized gains and losses from these investments. These factors were partially offset by the repurchase of common stock of $3.2 billion, acquisitions of businesses of $2.3 billion net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, and capital expenditures of $408 million. Our cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside of the United States in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $30.8 billion and $29.1 billion, as of January 23, 2010 and July 25, 2009, respectively. The remaining balance held in the United States as of January 23, 2010 and July 25, 2009 was $8.8 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively. If cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. For internal management purposes, we target specific ranges of net realizable cash, representing cash and cash equivalents and investments, net of (i) long-term debt and the present value of operating lease commitments and (ii) U.S. income taxes that we estimate would be payable upon the distribution to the United States of cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States. We believe that our strong total cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, acquisitions, customer financing activities, working capital, and the repurchase of shares. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and fixed income portfolio invested in securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, deferred revenue, excess tax benefits from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. 59 Table of Contents Accounts Receivable, Net The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions) and DSO: January 23, 2010 July 25, 2009 Increase (Decrease) Accounts receivable, net $ 4,237 $ 3,177 $ 1,060 DSO 39 34 5 The increase in accounts receivable, net and DSO was primarily driven by the seasonality of our service billings and our shipment profile during the quarter, which was attributable in part to longer than normal lead time extensions associated with increasing demand and supplier constraints discussed above. Inventories and Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers The following table summarizes our inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns): January 23, 2010 July 25, 2009 Increase (Decrease) Inventories $ 1,215 $ 1,074 $ 141 Annualized inventory turns 12.1 11.7 0.4 Purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers $ 3,327 $ 2,157 $ 1,170 The increase in our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was primarily a result of our response to the increase in demand. In addition, the increase was a result of longer lead times associated with supply constraints, as discussed above. Inventories increased during the first six months of fiscal 2010 as a result of our response to increased demand and also due to the acquisition of Starent. Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished goods. Distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners, as well as shipments to customers. Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and build-to-stock products. Service-related spares consist of reusable equipment related to our technical support and warranty activities. All inventories are accounted for at the lower of cost or market. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. We record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. The purchase commitments for inventory are expected to be primarily fulfilled within one year. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels. 60 Table of Contents Financing Receivables and Guarantees The following table summarizes our financing receivables, financing guarantees, and the related deferred revenue (in millions): January 23, 2010 July 25, 2009 Increase (Decrease) Lease receivables $ 1,966 $ 1,805 $ 161 Financed service contracts 1,594 1,642 (48 ) Loan receivables 1,207 861 346 Gross financing receivables 4,767 4,308 459 Financing guaranteeschannel partner 342 334 8 Financing guaranteesend user 345 405 (60 ) Gross financing receivables and guarantees 5,454 5,047 407 Allowances for financing receivables (348 ) (327 ) (21 ) Deferred revenue related to financing receivables and guarantees (2,535 ) (2,639 ) 104 Financing receivables and guarantees, net $ 2,571 $ 2,081 $ 490 Financing Receivables We provide financing to certain end-user customers and channel partners to enable sales of our products, services, and networking solutions. These financing arrangements include leases, financed service contracts, and loans. Arrangements related to leases and loans are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables include sales-type and direct-financing leases. We also provide certain qualified customers financing for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. We expect to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term. Financing Guarantees In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive a payment for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners and, in some cases, we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed. Deferred Revenue Related to Financing Receivables and Guarantees The majority of the deferred revenue in the table above is related to financed service contracts. The revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred and included in deferred service revenue. The revenue related to financed service contracts is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed. A portion of the revenue related to lease and loan receivables is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue recognition criteria. 61 Table of Contents Borrowings Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions): January 23, 2010 July 25, 2009 Senior notes: 5.25% fixed-rate notes, due 2011 (2011 Notes) $ 3,000 $ 3,000 2.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 (2014 Notes) 500 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2016 (2016 Notes) 3,000 3,000 4.95% fixed-rate notes, due 2019 (2019 Notes) 2,000 2,000 4.45% fixed-rate notes, due 2020 (2020 Notes) 2,500 5.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2039 (2039 Notes) 2,000 2,000 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2040 (2040 Notes) 2,000 Total $ 15,000 $ 10,000 In November 2009, we issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion. Of these notes, $500 million will mature in 2014 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.90% per annum, $2.5 billion will mature in 2020 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.45% per annum, and $2.0 billion will mature in 2040 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.50% per annum. The proceeds from the offering are being used for general corporate purposes. The interest on the senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears. The notes are redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Our senior notes were rated A1 by Moodys Investors Service, Inc. and A+ by Standard & Poors Ratings Services as of January 23, 2010. Interest is payable semi-annually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of January 23, 2010. Credit Facility We have a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that, as of February 16, 2010, provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of Americas prime rate as announced from time to time or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard & Poors Ratings Services and Moodys Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. We may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or of additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $1.9 billion, as of February 16, 2010, and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to August 15, 2014. As of January 23, 2010, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. 62 Table of Contents Deferred Revenue The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions): January 23, 2010 July 25, 2009 Increase (Decrease) Service $ 6,338 $ 6,496 $ (158 ) Product 3,319 2,897 422 Total $ 9,657 $ 9,393 $ 264 Reported as: Current $ 6,751 $ 6,438 $ 313 Noncurrent 2,906 2,955 (49 ) Total $ 9,657 $ 9,393 $ 264 The decrease in deferred service revenue reflects the ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue, partially offset by the impact of new contract initiations and renewals, which typically are seasonally higher in the second quarter. The increase in deferred product revenue was primarily due to an increase in shipments not having met revenue recognition criteria, the timing of cash receipts related to unrecognized revenue from two-tier distributors, and other revenue deferrals. Operating Leases We lease office space in several U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites are located in Australia, Belgium, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom. We also lease equipment and vehicles. The future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of January 23, 2010 were $1.3 billion. Other Commitments In connection with our business combinations and asset purchases, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or continued employment with us of certain employees of acquired entities, including compensation expense attributable to Nuova Systems. We also have the pending acquisition of Tandberg as of January 23, 2010. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were approximately $307 million as of January 23, 2010, compared with approximately $313 million as of July 25, 2009. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. We have evaluated our investments in these privately held companies and our customer financings and have determined that there were no significant unconsolidated variable interest entities as of January 23, 2010. Certain events can require a reassessment of our investments in privately held companies or customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary. As a result of such events, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events. We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the discussion of these financing guarantees under Financing Receivables and Guarantees above. 63 Table of Contents Stock Repurchase Program In September 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of January 23, 2010, our Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $72 billion of common stock under this program and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $11.6 billion with no termination date. The stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts): Six Months Ended January 23, 2010 Shares Repurchased Weighted- Average Price per Share Amount Repurchased Cumulative balance at July 25, 2009 2,802 $ 20.41 $ 57,179 Repurchase of common stock under the stock repurchase program 139 23.43 3,253 Cumulative balance at January 23, 2010 2,941 $ 20.55 $ 60,432 Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations, our ability to access capital markets including our issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in November 2009, and committed credit lines, will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, contractual obligations, commitments, principal payments on long-term debt, future customer financings, pending acquisitions, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations through at least the next 12 months. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity, the availability, and our requirements for capital resources. 64 Table of Contents