Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, including this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, continues, endeavors, strives, may, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. Overview We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol ("IP") based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology ("IT") industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide a broad line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are utilized at enterprise businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies and other service providers, commercial businesses, and personal residences. A summary of our results is as follows (in millions, except percentages and per-share amounts): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance Net sales $ 12,098 $ 11,527 5.0 % $ 23,974 $ 22,783 5.2 % Gross margin percentage 60.7 % 61.3 % (0.6 ) pts 60.8 % 61.3 % (0.5 ) pts Research and development $ 1,452 $ 1,339 8.4 % $ 2,883 $ 2,714 6.2 % Sales and marketing $ 2,387 $ 2,395 (0.3 )% $ 4,803 $ 4,847 (0.9 )% General and administrative $ 584 $ 497 17.5 % $ 1,144 $ 1,049 9.1 % Total R&D, sales and marketing, general and administrative $ 4,423 $ 4,231 4.5 % $ 8,830 $ 8,610 2.6 % Total as a percentage of revenue 36.6 % 36.7 % (0.1 ) pts 36.8 % 37.8 % (1.0 ) pts Amortization of purchased intangible assets $ 118 $ 97 21.6 % $ 240 $ 196 22.4 % Restructuring and other charges $ 13 $ 3 333.3 % $ 72 $ 205 (64.9 )% Operating income as a percentage of revenue 23.1 % 23.7 % (0.6 ) pts 22.7 % 21.7 % 1.0 pts Income tax percentage (13.1 )% 20.6 % (33.7 ) pts 3.3 % 20.7 % (17.4 ) pts Net income $ 3,143 $ 2,182 44.0 % $ 5,235 $ 3,959 32.2 % Net income as a percentage of revenue 26.0 % 18.9 % 7.1 pts 21.8 % 17.4 % 4.4 pts Earnings per share-diluted $ 0.59 $ 0.40 47.5 % $ 0.98 $ 0.73 34.2 % 40 Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 For the second fiscal quarter of fiscal 2013, diluted earnings per share increased by 48% from the prior year period, a result of both a 44% increase in net income and a decline in our diluted share count by 44 million shares. Approximately 96% of the increase in net income was due to our recognition of total tax benefits of $926 million, based primarily on the IRS completing its audit of our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2002 through fiscal 2007 and the reinstatement of the U.S. federal R&D tax credit. We continued to execute on our plan to deliver profitable growth over the long term by maintaining our focus on operational excellence and portfolio management. Net sales increased 5% with net product sales increasing 3% and service revenue increasing 10% . The net product sales increase was in large part due to our acquisition of NDS, which was completed at the beginning of fiscal 2013. Operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased by 0.6 percentage points, primarily as a result of a lower gross margin percentage. Contributing to the lower gross margin percentage was higher amortization of purchased intangible assets resulting from recent acquisitions. For the second quarter of fiscal 2013, as compared with the prior year period, revenue increased by $0.6 billion . The Americas contributed $0.6 billion of the increase led by a sales increase of 9% in the United States. APJC contributed $0.1 billion to the revenue increase led by strong sales growth in India. We continued to experience weakness in the European economy, and we expect that this could continue in the future. Revenue in our EMEA segment declined by $0.2 billion , with revenue declines in France, Germany, and the United Kingdom being only partially offset by solid revenue growth in Russia and certain other countries in the segment. For the second quarter of fiscal 2013, as compared with the prior year period, net product sales and service revenue each increased by $0.3 billion . The product sales increase was driven by the following: an increase of $0.2 billion from Service Provider Video driven by the acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013; an increase of $0.2 billion from Data Center products, due to continued strong customer demand; an increase of $0.1 billion from Wireless products, due to continued demand for these solutions, and an increase of $0.1 billion from our Switching Products. These sales increases, along with the service revenue contribution, reflect, in our view, the success we are experiencing with our technology architectures and our ability to deliver customer solutions, particularly in the enterprise and service provider data center and cloud environments. The continuing weakness we experienced in the second quarter in the EMEA segment and with regard to global public sector spending, especially in the United States, contributed to a net product sales decrease of $0.1 billion in our Collaboration product category. We also experienced a decrease of $0.1 billion in our NGN Routing product category, driven by sales declines in APJC, in particular China, and EMEA. In addition, sales in our Other product category decreased by $0.1 billion due in large part to lower sales of Linksys home networking products and lower sales of other networking products. In summary, during the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we continued to execute on our plan to deliver profitable growth over the long term. We did so as we continued to experience the global macroeconomic challenges we faced in recent quarters including, in particular, weakness in the European economy, lower global public sector spending, and a conservative approach to IT-related capital spending by our other customers. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 Diluted earnings per share increased by 34% from the prior year, a result of both a 32% increase in net income and a decline by our diluted share count of 60 million shares. A significant portion of the favorable increase in net income was attributable to the tax benefits recognized in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 discussed above. Net sales increased 5% , with net product sales increasing 4% and service revenue increasing 11% . The increase in net product sales was due in large part to our acquisition of NDS. We achieved net sales increases in our Americas and APJC geographic segments while net sales in our EMEA geographic segment declined. Total gross margin decreased by 0.5 percentage points. As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses collectively declined by 1.0 percentage point primarily due to lower sales and marketing expenses. Operating income as a percentage of revenue increased by 1.0 percentage point, primarily as a result of lower restructuring charges and effective expense management. Strategy and Focus Areas Our focus continues to be on our five foundational priorities: Leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services), which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions Collaboration Data center virtualization and cloud Video Architectures for business transformation 41 We believe that focusing on these priorities best positions us to continue to expand our share of our customers' information technology spending. We continue to undergo product transitions in our core business, including the introduction of next-generation products with higher price performance and architectural advantages compared with both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth across these next-generation product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business conditions and, therefore, may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. However, we believe that these newly introduced products may continue to negatively impact product gross margins, which we are currently striving to address through various initiatives, including value engineering; effective supply chain management; and delivering greater customer value through offers that include hardware, software, and services. We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions. Market transitions relating to the network are becoming, in our view, more significant as intelligent networks have moved from being a mere cost center issue-that is, where the focus is on reducing network operating costs and increasing network-related productivity-to becoming, additionally and increasingly, a platform for improved revenue generation as well as driving business agility and strategy execution. Market transitions for which we are primarily focused include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, networked mobility technologies, the transition from Internet Protocol Version 4 to Internet Protocol Version 6, and the Internet of Everything. For example, a market in which a significant market transition is underway is the enterprise data center market, where a transition to virtualization / the cloud is rapidly evolving. There is a continued growing awareness that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows: Virtualization: Refers to the process of creating a virtual, or nonphysical, version of a device or resource, such as a server, storage device, network or an operating system, in such a way that human users as well as other devices and resources are able to interact with the virtual resource as if it were an actual physical resource. For example, one type of virtualization is server or data center virtualization, which consists of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand, thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network. The cloud: Refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software applications, are no longer tethered to a user's physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user on demand as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously. This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service ("SaaS") and other-as-a-service ("XaaS") solutions. The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing. Very large, well-financed, and aggressive competitors are each bringing their own new class of products to address this new market. We expect this competitive market trend to continue. With respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers. We believe that the architectural approach that we have undertaken in the enterprise data center market is adaptable to other markets. An example of a market where we aim to apply this approach is mobility, where growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be delivered on such devices. A key term in this mobility-centered market transition is BYOD, an acronym for bring your own device, which in the context of IT usage in companies, universities, and other organizations refers to the growing trend of employees, customers, students, and others associated with such entities to bring 42 and use their own laptop computers, smartphones, tablets or other mobile devices for their work or participation, instead of using equipment provided by the organization. With regard to this market transition, to help such organizations meet the demands of increasing BYOD usage, our product development strategy involves a comprehensive architectural approach that will allow for, among other things, a unified security policy across the whole organization; a simplified operations and network management structure that understands application performance from a user's perspective, enhances troubleshooting capability and lowers network operating costs; and an uncompromised user experience over the organization's entire wireless and wired network that embraces use of any kind of device. Our mobility-related products and solutions reflect this architectural-based approach. Other market transitions on which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads and which convergence appears to be evolving even more quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, as customers evolve their communications and business models. More generally, we are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers. Another market transition on which we are focusing is the move toward more programmable, flexible, and virtual networks. This move to network programmability encompasses technologies such as software-defined networking and is focused on moving from a hardware-centric approach for networking to a virtualized network environment that is designed to enable flexible, application-driven customization of network infrastructures. We believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine application-specific-integrated-circuits (ASICs) with hardware and software elements together to meet customers' total cost of ownership, quality, security, scalability and experience requirements. In our view, there is no single architecture that supports all customer requirements in this area. Our strategy is targeted to address a broad range of specific customer use cases. Recently, we announced an additional set of network programmability capabilities with the announcement of the Cisco Open Network Environment, or Cisco ONE, including overlay network technology, application programming interfaces ("APIs"), and network-operation tools called agents and controllers. In our view, this evolution is in its very early stages and presents an opportunity for Cisco. We intend to continue to drive internal innovation, partner for co-development, and make strategic investments to lead this evolution. Other Key Financial Measures The following is a summary of our other key financial measures for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013 (in millions, except days sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("DSO") and annualized inventory turns): January 26, 2013 July 28, 2012 Cash and cash equivalents and investments $46,376 $48,716 Deferred revenue $13,321 $12,880 DSO 34 days 34 days Inventories $1,574 $1,663 Annualized inventory turns 11.6 11.7 Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Cash provided by operating activities $5,814 $5,434 Repurchases of common stock - stock repurchase program $753 $2,010 Dividends $1,487 $644 43 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 28, 2012, as updated as applicable in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements herein, describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria have been met: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists. Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. Delivery has occurred. Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery. The fee is fixed or determinable. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. Collectibility is reasonably assured. We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customer's payment history. In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include services, the multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine the unit of accounting, and the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the relative selling price. Revenue is recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for each unit of accounting are met. The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our valuation of the units of accounting for multiple deliverables. According to the accounting guidance prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 605, Revenue Recognition , we use vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price ("VSOE") for each of those units, when available. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the historical standalone transactions have the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median rates. When VSOE does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy to applicable multiple-deliverable arrangements. Under the selling price hierarchy, third-party evidence of selling price ("TPE") will be considered if VSOE does not exist, and estimated selling price ("ESP") will be used if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Generally, we are not able to determine TPE because our go-to-market strategy differs from that of others in our markets, and the extent of our proprietary technology varies among comparable products or services from those of our peers. In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement. We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company-specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, profitability objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting. Some of our sales arrangements have multiple deliverables containing software and related software support components. Such sales arrangements are subject to the accounting guidance in ASC 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition . As our business and offerings evolve over time, our pricing practices may be required to be modified accordingly, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and ESP, in subsequent periods. There were no material impacts during the quarter nor do we currently expect a material impact in the next twelve months on our revenue recognition due to any changes in our VSOE, TPE, or ESP. Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements, service, support, and other factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our deferred revenue for products was $4.3 billion and $3.7 billion as of January 26, 2013 and July 28, 2012, respectively. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which typically is from one to three years. Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. Our deferred revenue for services was $9.1 billion and $9.2 billion as of January 26, 2013 and July 28, 2012, respectively. 44 We make sales to distributors and retail partners, which we refer to as two-tier systems of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. If actual credits received by our distributors and retail partners under these programs were to deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected. Allowances for Receivables and Sales Returns The allowances for receivables were as follows (in millions, except percentages): January 26, 2013 July 28, 2012 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ 218 $ 207 Percentage of gross accounts receivable 4.7 % 4.5 % Allowance for credit loss - lease receivables $ 247 $ 247 Percentage of gross lease receivables 6.6 % 7.2 % Allowance for credit loss - loan receivables $ 101 $ 122 Percentage of gross loan receivables 5.7 % 6.8 % The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of these allowances by considering internal factors such as historical experience, credit quality, and age of the receivable balances as well as external factors such as economic conditions that may affect a customer's ability to pay and expected default frequency rates, which are published by major third-party credit-rating agencies and are generally updated on a quarterly basis. We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances for doubtful accounts. If a major customer's creditworthiness deteriorates, if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other circumstances arise, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue. The allowance for credit loss on financing receivables is also based on the assessment of collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of the credit allowances determined either on an individual or a collective basis. When evaluating the financing receivables on an individual basis, we consider historical experience, credit quality and age of receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer's ability to pay. When evaluating the financing receivables on a collective basis, we use expected default frequency rates published by a major third-party credit-rating agency as well as our own historical loss rate in the event of default, while also systematically giving effect to economic conditions, concentration of risk and correlation. Determination of expected default frequency rates and loss factors associated with internal credit risk ratings as well as assessing economic conditions, concentration of risk, and correlation are complex and subjective. Our ongoing consideration of all these factors could result in an increase in our allowance for credit loss in the future, which could adversely affect our revenue. Both accounts receivable and financing receivables are charged off at the point when they are considered uncollectible. A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of both January 26, 2013 and July 28, 2012 was $129 million and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable. If the actual future returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected. Inventory Valuation and Liability for Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers Our inventory balance was $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion as of January 26, 2013 and July 28, 2012, respectively. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of January 26, 2013 , the liability for these purchase commitments was $169 million , compared with $193 million as of July 28, 2012, and was included in other current liabilities. Our provision for inventory was $63 million and $53 million for the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $40 million and $51 million for the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. 45 If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs, and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, and accordingly our profitability, could be adversely affected. We regularly evaluate our exposure for inventory write-downs and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence, particularly in light of current macroeconomic uncertainties and conditions and the resulting potential for changes in future demand forecast. Warranty Costs The liability for product warranties, included in other current liabilities, was $424 million as of January 26, 2013 , compared with $415 million as of July 28, 2012. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overhead. Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities. The provision for product warranties issued during the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012 was $319 million and $331 million , respectively. The decrease in the provision for warranties occurred principally due to a warranty charge incurred on a specific product during the second quarter of fiscal 2012. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our profitability could be adversely affected. Share-Based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense is presented as follows (in millions): Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance Share-based compensation expense $ 608 $ 695 $ (87 ) Restricted stock units are valued using the market value of our common stock on the date of grant, discounted for the present value of expected dividends. Restricted stock unit awards with market-based conditions are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The determination of the fair value of employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. For employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights, these variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, the risk-free interest rate, and expected dividends as of the grant date. For employee stock options, we historically have used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, we used the implied volatility for traded options (with lives corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on our stock. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The valuation of employee stock options is also impacted by kurtosis and skewness, which are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns and the actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Because share-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period. Fair Value Measurements Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of $39.5 billion as of January 26, 2013 , compared with $38.9 billion as of July 28, 2012. Our fixed income investment portfolio, as of January 26, 2013 , consisted primarily of high-quality investment-grade securities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 46 As described more fully in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, a valuation hierarchy is based on the level of independent, objective evidence available regarding the value of the investments. It encompasses three classes of investments: Level 1 consists of securities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical securities; Level 2 consists of securities for which observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs are used, such as quoted prices for similar securities in active markets or quoted prices for identical securities in less active markets and model-derived valuations for which the variables are derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data; and Level 3 consists of securities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value. Our Level 2 securities are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from independent pricing vendors, quoted market prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate fair value of our assets and liabilities. We use such pricing data as the primary input, to which we have not made any material adjustments during fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, to make our assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of our investment portfolio. We are ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates. The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information, and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to its estimate of fair value. The assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio, and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and assumptions affected by levels of subjectivity and judgment was material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of January 26, 2013 . We had no Level 3 investments in our total portfolio as of January 26, 2013 . Other-than-Temporary Impairments We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described in the prior sentence, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit loss, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income ("OCI"). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information, including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral. For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. There were no impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity securities and fixed income securities in the first six months of fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of January 26, 2013 , our investments in privately held companies were $869 million , compared with $858 million as of July 28, 2012, and were included in other assets. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment, and we will make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $18 million and $2 million for the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. 47 Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Asset Impairments Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. The assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets. The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 26, 2013 and July 28, 2012 was $21.4 billion and $17.0 billion , respectively. The increase in goodwill for the first six months of fiscal 2013 was due in large part to our acquisitions of NDS and Meraki Inc. ("Meraki"). In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill in the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012. We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. There were no impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets for the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, research and development ("R&D") tax credits, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, international realignments, and transfer pricing adjustments. Our effective tax rate was ( 13.1% ) and 20.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our effective tax rate was 3.3% and 20.7% for the first six months of fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives; by transfer pricing adjustments, including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R&D cost-sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. 48 Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Loss Contingencies We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 49 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net Sales The following table presents the breakdown of net sales between product and service revenue (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: Product $ 9,437 $ 9,118 $ 319 3.5 % $ 18,734 $ 18,070 $ 664 3.7 % Percentage of net sales 78.0 % 79.1 % 78.1 % 79.3 % Service 2,661 2,409 252 10.5 % 5,240 4,713 527 11.2 % Percentage of net sales 22.0 % 20.9 % 21.9 % 20.7 % Total $ 12,098 $ 11,527 $ 571 5.0 % $ 23,974 $ 22,783 $ 1,191 5.2 % We manage our business primarily on a geographic basis, organized into three geographic segments. Our net sales, which include product and service revenue for each segment, are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net sales: Americas $ 7,136 $ 6,552 $ 584 8.9 % $ 14,159 $ 13,140 $ 1,019 7.8 % Percentage of net sales 59.0 % 56.8 % 59.0 % 57.7 % EMEA 3,093 3,250 (157 ) (4.8 )% 5,934 6,095 (161 ) (2.6 )% Percentage of net sales 25.6 % 28.2 % 24.8 % 26.7 % APJC 1,869 1,725 144 8.3 % 3,881 3,548 333 9.4 % Percentage of net sales 15.4 % 15.0 % 16.2 % 15.6 % Total $ 12,098 $ 11,527 $ 571 5.0 % $ 23,974 $ 22,783 $ 1,191 5.2 % Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 For the second quarter of fiscal 2013, as compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2012, net sales increased by 5% . Net product sales increased by 3% , while service revenue increased by 10% . The increase in net product sales reflected growth in our Americas and APJC geographic segments, while net product sales declined in the EMEA segment. Service revenues increased across all of our geographic segments. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 For the first six months of fiscal 2013, as compared with the first six months of fiscal 2012, net sales increased by 5% . Net product sales increased by 4% , while service revenue increased by 11% . The increase in net product sales reflected growth in our Americas and APJC geographic segments, while net product sales declined in the EMEA segment. Service revenues increased across all of our geographic segments. We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on sales has not been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our sales to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our sales are influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations. 50 In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, including a cautious IT spending environment and budget-driven reductions in spending by government entities, net sales by segment in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple-element arrangements; the mix of financing arrangements provided to our channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition, which in turn would impact the net sales of the relevant segment. As has been the case in certain of our emerging countries from time to time, customers require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, and this may occur in future periods, which may also impact the timing of the recognition of revenue. Net Product Sales by Segment The following table presents the breakdown of net product sales by segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: Americas $ 5,389 $ 4,973 $ 416 8.4 % $ 10,703 $ 10,030 $ 673 6.7 % Percentage of net product sales 57.1 % 54.6 % 57.2 % 55.5 % EMEA 2,547 2,748 (201 ) (7.3 )% 4,879 5,119 (240 ) (4.7 )% Percentage of net product sales 27.0 % 30.1 % 26.0 % 28.3 % APJC 1,501 1,397 104 7.4 % 3,152 2,921 231 7.9 % Percentage of net product sales 15.9 % 15.3 % 16.8 % 16.2 % Total $ 9,437 $ 9,118 $ 319 3.5 % $ 18,734 $ 18,070 $ 664 3.7 % Americas Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 The increase in net product sales in the Americas segment was led by growth in the commercial, enterprise and service provider markets. The growth in net product sales to the service provider market was in large part due to our acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013. We continued to experience a decline in net product sales in the public sector market for the second quarter of fiscal 2013, which was driven primarily by lower net product sales to the U.S. federal government only partially offset by higher net product sales to state and local governments. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by 9% in the United States, 27% in Mexico, and 5% in Brazil. Net product sales in Canada were flat compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2012. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 The increase in net product sales in the Americas segment was led by growth in the service provider, commercial and enterprise markets. The growth in net product sales to the service provider market was due in part to our acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013. We experienced a decline in net product sales to the public sector market for the first six months of fiscal 2013 as lower net product sales to the U.S. federal government were only partially offset by higher net product sales to state and local governments. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by 9% in the United States, 8% in Mexico and 5% in Brazil. These increases were partially offset by a net product sales decline of 9% in Canada. EMEA Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 Net product sales in the EMEA segment decreased by 7% as weakness from macroeconomic challenges in Europe continued to impact our business in this segment. The decline was led by the enterprise market, followed by lesser declines in the public sector and commercial markets. Net product sales to our service provider market were flat and include net product sales from our acquisition of NDS. From a country perspective, net product sales decreased by 7% in the Netherlands, 9% in the United Kingdom, 8% in both Germany and France, and 29% in Italy. Partially offsetting these declines was an 8% increase in net product sales to Russia. 51 Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 The decrease in net product sales occurred across all our customer markets in the EMEA segment, led by declines in the enterprise and public sector markets, followed by smaller declines in the service provider and commercial markets. From a country perspective, net product sales decreased by 20% in the Netherlands, 7% in the United Kingdom, 8% in both Germany and France, and 26% in Italy. Partially offsetting these product sales declines was a 17% increase in net product sales in Russia. APJC Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 The increase in the APJC segment was led by solid net product sales growth in the commercial market and, to a lesser degree, in the service provider and public sector markets. The growth in the service provider market was due to our acquisition of NDS. Net product sales were flat in the enterprise market in the APJC segment. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by 46% in India, 11% in China, and 4% in Australia, partially offset by a net product sales decline of 14% in Japan. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 The increase in the APJC segment was led by strong net product sales growth in the public sector, service provider and commercial markets and, to a lesser degree, in the enterprise market. The growth in the service provider market was in large part due to our acquisition of NDS. From a country perspective, net product sales increased by 41% in India, 1% in China, and 18% in Australia, partially offset by a net product sales decline of 2% in Japan. 52 Net Product Sales by Groups of Similar Products In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to groups of similar products and customer markets for various purposes. Our product categories consist of the following categories (with subcategories in parentheses): Switching (fixed switching, modular switching, and storage); NGN Routing (high-end routers, mid-range and low-end routers, and other NGN Routing products); Service Provider Video (customer premises equipment and video software and systems (which includes sales of NDS products)); Collaboration (unified communications and Cisco TelePresence); Data Center; Wireless; Security; and Other Products. The Other Products category consists primarily of Linksys home networking products, emerging technology products, and other networking products. The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net product sales: Switching $ 3,724 $ 3,621 $ 103 2.8 % $ 7,340 $ 7,308 $ 32 0.4 % Percentage of net product sales 39.5 % 39.7 % 39.2 % 40.5 % NGN Routing 1,946 2,068 (122 ) (5.9 )% 3,998 4,162 (164 ) (3.9 )% Percentage of net product sales 20.6 % 22.7 % 21.3 % 23.0 % Service Provider Video 1,220 1,014 206 20.3 % 2,368 1,897 471 24.8 % Percentage of net product sales 12.9 % 11.1 % 12.6 % 10.5 % Collaboration 945 1,060 (115 ) (10.8 )% 1,965 2,168 (203 ) (9.4 )% Percentage of net product sales 10.0 % 11.5 % 10.5 % 12.0 % Data Center 548 333 215 64.6 % 965 592 373 63.0 % Percentage of net product sales 5.8 % 3.7 % 5.2 % 3.3 % Wireless 520 409 111 27.1 % 1,006 762 244 32.0 % Percentage of net product sales 5.5 % 4.5 % 5.4 % 4.2 % Security 336 333 3 0.9 % 674 652 22 3.4 % Percentage of net product sales 3.6 % 3.7 % 3.6 % 3.6 % Other 198 280 (82 ) (29.3 )% 418 529 (111 ) (21.0 )% Percentage of net product sales 2.1 % 3.1 % 2.2 % 2.9 % Total $ 9,437 $ 9,118 $ 319 3.5 % $ 18,734 $ 18,070 $ 664 3.7 % Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior period amounts to conform to the current period's presentation. Switching Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 Our Switching product category consists of switching and storage products. Sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches increased by 6%, or $124 million. The increase in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to higher sales of Cisco Nexus 5000 Series Switches, Cisco Catalyst 3000, 3750 and 4000 Series Switches, and fixed switching optics modules. Sales of modular switches increased $11 million, or 1%, with higher sales of Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches, optics modules, and Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Switches being partially offset by lower sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switches. Net product sales in our Switching product category were negatively impacted by a 22% decrease in sales of storage products. 53 Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 Sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches increased by 2%, or $82 million. The increase in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to higher sales of Cisco Nexus 5000 Series Switches and fixed switching optics modules, partially offset by sales declines in several of our Cisco Catalyst product families. Sales of modular switches increased $16 million, or 1%, with higher sales of Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches, optics modules, and Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series Switches, being partially offset by lower sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switches. Net product sales in our Switching product category were negatively impacted by a 22% decrease in sales of storage products. NGN Routing Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 We experienced a decrease of $122 million in our NGN Routing product category, driven by sales declines in APJC, in particular China, and EMEA. From a subcategory perspective, the decrease in sales of our NGN Routing product category was driven by a 6%, or $67 million, decrease in sales of high-end router products and a 9%, or $62 million, collective decrease in sales of our mid-range and low-end router products. Within the high-end router products category, we experienced lower sales of our Cisco CRS-3 Carrier Routing System products, and of our legacy high-end router products. These decreases were partially offset by sales growth in Cisco ASR 9000 and 5000 products as we continue to experience product transitions in our high-end product category. We experienced a slight increase in sales of other NGN Routing products due to increased sales of optical networking products, partially offset by lower sales of other routing products. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 The decrease in sales of our NGN Routing product category was driven by a 4%, or $89 million, decrease in sales of high-end router products; a 13%, or $50 million, decrease in sales of other NGN Routing products; and a 2%, or $25 million, decrease in sales of our mid-range and low-end router products. Within the high-end router products category, we experienced lower sales of our Cisco CRS-3 Carrier Routing System products, and of our legacy high-end router products. These decreases were partially offset by sales growth in Cisco ASR 9000 and 5000 products. The decline in sales of other NGN Routing products was due to decreased sales of other routing and optical networking products. Service Provider Video Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 Our Service Provider Video product category consists of the following two major subcategories of products: customer premises equipment and video software and systems. The increase in sales of Service Provider Video products was due to the acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013. Within the two subcategories, sales within the video software and systems subcategory, which includes the NDS products, increased by 55%, or $184 million, while sales of customer premises equipment products increased by 3%, or $22 million. The increase in sales of customer premises equipment products was due primarily to increased sales of cable set-top boxes. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 The increase in sales of Service Provider Video products was in large part due to the acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013, which contributed a substantial majority of the total sales increase. Within the two subcategories, sales within the video software and systems subcategory, which includes the NDS products, increased by 56%, or $351 million, while sales of customer premises equipment products increased by 10%, or $120 million. The increase in sales of customer premises equipment products was due primarily to increased sales of cable set-top boxes. Collaboration Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 Our Collaboration product category consists of unified communications products (IP phones, call center and messaging solutions, infrastructure products, and web-based collaborative offerings) and Cisco TelePresence Systems. Sales of Collaboration products decreased primarily due to a decline in sales of Cisco TelePresence Systems. Lower public sector spending in the United States and demand weakness in Europe were the largest drivers of the decrease in sales of Cisco TelePresence Systems. We also experienced a slight decline in unified communications product sales. The decline in unified communications sales was due primarily to lower sales of infrastructure products, partially offset by higher sales of collaborative web-based offerings. 54 Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 The sales decrease in our Collaboration product category was primarily due to a decline in sales of Cisco TelePresence Systems along with a slight decline in sales of unified communications products. The decline in sales of Cisco TelePresence Systems was due to similar factors as those affecting the three month period discussed in the paragraph immediately above. The slight decline in unified communications sales was due primarily to lower sales of unified communications infrastructure products and lower sales of collaborative web-based offerings. Data Center Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 Sales of Data Center products increased significantly due to increased sales of Cisco Unified Computing System products. The increase was due in large part to the momentum we are experiencing with our products for the commercial, enterprise, and service provider data center and cloud environments, as current customers increase their data center build-outs, and as new customers purchase products. To the extent our Data Center business grows and further penetrates the market, we expect that, in comparison to what we have experienced during the initial rapid growth of this business, the growth rates for our Data Center product sales will experience more normal seasonality consistent with the overall server market. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 Sales of Data Center products increased significantly due to increased sales of Cisco Unified Computing System products. The increase was due in large part to similar factors as those affecting the three month period discussed immediately above. Wireless, Security, and Other Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 Sales of Wireless products increased 27% , or $111 million , primarily reflecting the continued customer adoption of and migration to the Cisco Unified Wireless Network architecture, and also reflecting increased sales of new products in this category. Sales of our Security products were up slightly, as sales of our content security and network security subcategories each increased slightly. We experienced a decrease in sales of Other Products due in large part to lower sales of Linksys home networking products and lower sales of other networking products. In the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we agreed to sell our Linksys product line to a third party, which transaction is expected to close during the third quarter of fiscal 2013. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 Sales of Wireless products increased 32% , or $244 million , due to similar factors as those affecting the three month period discussed above. Sales of security products increased slightly and were driven in part by the relatively recent update of our firewall security product portfolio. We experienced a decrease in sales of Other Products due in large part to lower sales of Linksys home networking products and lower sales of other networking products. 55 Net Service Sales by Segment The following table presents the breakdown of service revenue by segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Net service sales: Americas $ 1,747 $ 1,579 $ 168 10.6 % $ 3,456 $ 3,110 $ 346 11.1 % Percentage of net service sales 65.7 % 65.6 % 66.0 % 66.0 % EMEA 546 502 44 8.8 % 1,055 976 79 8.1 % Percentage of net service sales 20.5 % 20.8 % 20.1 % 20.7 % APJC 368 328 40 12.2 % 729 627 102 16.3 % Percentage of net service sales 13.8 % 13.6 % 13.9 % 13.3 % Total $ 2,661 $ 2,409 $ 252 10.5 % $ 5,240 $ 4,713 $ 527 11.2 % Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 Service revenue experienced solid growth across all of our geographic segments for the second quarter. Worldwide technical support services revenue increased by 7%, and worldwide advanced services, which relate to consulting support services for specific network needs, experienced 20% revenue growth. Technical support services revenue grew across all of our geographic segments, with the Americas and APJC growing faster than the worldwide average, and EMEA growing slower than the worldwide average. Renewals and technical support service contract initiations associated with product sales provided an installed base of equipment being serviced which, in concert with new service offerings, were the primary factors driving these sales increases. Advanced services revenue had solid growth across all geographic segments. Advanced services revenue growth was driven by strong growth in both transaction and subscription revenues. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 Service revenue experienced solid growth across all of our geographic segments for the period. Worldwide technical support services revenue increased by 8%, and worldwide advanced services experienced 22% revenue growth. Technical support services revenue grew across all of our geographic segments. Advanced services revenue also grew across all geographic segments, with particularly strong growth in APJC. Advanced services revenue growth was driven by strong growth in both transaction and subscription revenues. Gross Margin The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Amount Percentage Amount Percentage January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Gross margin: Product $ 5,580 $ 5,468 59.1 % 60.0 % $ 11,129 $ 10,857 59.4 % 60.1 % Service 1,763 1,597 66.3 % 66.3 % 3,453 3,098 65.9 % 65.7 % Total $ 7,343 $ 7,065 60.7 % 61.3 % $ 14,582 $ 13,955 60.8 % 61.3 % 56 Product Gross Margin The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the change in product gross margin percentage for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013 as compared with the corresponding prior year periods: Product Gross Margin Percentage Three Months Ended Six Months Ended (1) Fiscal 2012 60.0 % 60.1 % Sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing (2.6 )% (2.8 )% Mix of products sold (0.4 )% (0.7 )% Amortization of purchased intangible assets (0.5 )% (0.5 )% Acquisition fair value adjustment to inventory and other (0.2 )% (0.2 )% Productivity (2) 2.8 % 3.5 % Fiscal 2013 59.1 % 59.4 % (1) During the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we refined our methodology for presenting the items in the preceding table and accordingly certain reclassifications have been made to the six months ended amounts to conform to the presentation followed for the three months-ended amounts. (2) Productivity includes overall manufacturing-related costs, shipment volume, and other items not categorized elsewhere. Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 Product gross margin decreased by 0.9 percentage points for the period. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates, and unfavorable product pricing, which were driven by normal market factors and by the geographic mix of net product sales. These factors impacted most of our customer markets and all of our geographic segments. Additionally, our product gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 was negatively impacted by the shift in the mix of products sold, primarily as a result of sales increases in our relatively lower margin Service Provider Video and Cisco Unified Computing System products. Further, our recent acquisitions, in particular NDS, resulted in higher amortization expense from purchased intangible assets along with costs resulting from a fair value adjustment to inventory acquired as part of the NDS business combination, the combined effect of which was an additional negative impact to our product gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2013. These factors were partially offset by productivity improvements. The productivity improvements were in large part due to the following: increased benefits from our value engineering efforts, particularly in certain of our Switching and NGN Routing categories in which product transitions have been taking place; favorable component pricing; and continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations. Value engineering is the process by which production costs are reduced through component redesign, board configuration, test processes, and transformation processes. Our future gross margins could be impacted by our product mix and could be adversely affected by further growth in sales of products that have lower gross margins, such as Cisco Unified Computing System and Service Provider Video products. Our gross margins may also be impacted by the geographic mix of our revenue and, as was the case in fiscal 2012 and 2011, may be adversely affected by increased sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing attributable to competitive factors. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain, which in turn could negatively affect gross margin. If any of the preceding factors that in the past have negatively impacted our gross margins arise in future periods, our gross margins could continue to decline. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 Product gross margin decreased by 0.7 percentage points for the period. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates, and unfavorable product pricing, which were driven by normal market factors and by the geographic mix of net product sales. These factors impacted most of our customer markets and all of our geographic segments. Additionally, our product gross margin for the first six months of fiscal 2013 was negatively impacted by the shift in the mix of products sold, primarily as a result of sales increases in our relatively lower margin Service Provider Video and Cisco Unified Computing System products. Further, as discussed above, our acquisition of NDS resulted in higher amortization expense from purchased intangible assets along with costs resulting from a fair value adjustment to inventory acquired as part of the business combination, each of which negatively impacted our product gross margin for the first six months of fiscal 2013. These factors were partially offset by productivity improvements driven by similar factors as discussed in the three month period immediately above. 57 Service Gross Margin Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 Our service gross margin percentage remained unchanged compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2012. Although we experienced higher sales volume led by growth in advanced services and in technical support services, the resulting benefit to gross margin was offset by increased cost impacts such as headcount-related costs, particularly in advanced services; partner delivery costs; and unfavorable mix. The mix impacts were due to our lower gross margin advanced services business contributing a higher proportion of service revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2013, as compared with the prior year period. Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract initiations in our renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and the resources we deploy to support the overall service business. Other factors include the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 Our service gross margin percentage increased by 0.2 percentage points for the period. This increase was primarily due to higher sales volume, led by growth in advanced services and in technical support services. The benefit to gross margin of increased volume was partially offset by increased cost impacts such as headcount-related costs, particularly in advanced services; partner delivery costs; and unfavorable mix. The mix impacts were due to advanced services contributing a higher proportion of service revenue for the first six months of fiscal 2013, as compared with the prior year period. Gross Margin by Segment The following table presents the total gross margin for each segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended Amount Percentage Amount Percentage January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Gross margin: Americas $ 4,413 $ 4,106 61.8 % 62.7 % $ 8,881 $ 8,266 62.7 % 62.9 % EMEA 2,008 2,095 64.9 % 64.5 % 3,806 3,849 64.1 % 63.2 % APJC 1,121 992 60.0 % 57.5 % 2,297 2,100 59.2 % 59.2 % Segment total 7,542 7,193 62.3 % 62.4 % 14,984 14,215 62.5 % 62.4 % Unallocated corporate items (1) (199 ) (128 ) (402 ) (260 ) Total $ 7,343 $ 7,065 60.7 % 61.3 % $ 14,582 $ 13,955 60.8 % 61.3 % (1) The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, impact to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, and restructuring and other charges. We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each segment because management does not include such information in measuring the performance of the operating segments. Three Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Three Months Ended January 28, 2012 We experienced a gross margin percentage decrease in our Americas segment, while our EMEA and APJC segments experienced a gross margin percentage increase. The Americas segment experienced a gross margin percentage decrease due to the impacts from higher sales discounts, rebates, unfavorable pricing; and also due to unfavorable mix impacts. The unfavorable mix impacts were due to higher revenue from our lower margin Data Center products. A slight decline in our service gross margin in this segment also contributed to the decrease. Partially offsetting these factors were productivity improvements, driven in large part by lower overall manufacturing costs and higher volume. The gross margin percentage increase in our EMEA segment was the result of higher service gross margin as our product gross margin percentage was unchanged in this segment. Our APJC segment gross margin percentage increased primarily as a result of productivity improvements and a more favorable mix of products sold during the current period, driven by lower NGN Routing sales. Partially offsetting these factors were the impacts from higher sales discounts, rebates, unfavorable pricing, and a decline in our service gross margin. 58 The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions as well as our movement into new market opportunities and gross margins could decline if any of the factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods. Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 Compared with Six Months Ended January 28, 2012 The Americas segment experienced a slight gross margin percentage decrease due to higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing, and also due to an unfavorable mix impact, all partially offset by productivity improvements. The gross margin percentage increase in our EMEA segment was primarily the result of productivity improvements from lower overall manufacturing costs, a favorable mix of products sold, and higher service gross margin. Partially offsetting these favorable impacts to gross margin were negative impacts from higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing. The APJC segment gross margin percentage was flat as compared with the corresponding period of fiscal 2012, as a slightly lower product gross margin percentage was offset by a higher service gross margin percentage. Factors That May Impact Net Sales and Gross Margin Net product sales may continue to be affected by factors, including global economic downturns and related market uncertainty, that have resulted in cautious IT-related capital spending in our enterprise, service provider, public sector, and commercial markets; changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition, including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix of our customers between service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer. Sales to the service provider market have been and may be in the future characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain products within our collaboration and data center product categories. In addition, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including network design services; and often have acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain of our customers in certain emerging countries also tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, especially in certain emerging countries, which in turn may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. Net product sales may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market; price and product competition in the communications and information technology industry; introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products; adoption of new networking standards; and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers' ability to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same quarter. For additional factors that may impact net product sales, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs. Increased sales to our distributors and retail partners generally result in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue for sales to our distributors and retail partners generally based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs. 59 Product gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including periods of increased growth of some of our lower margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages; our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost structures, as a result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially those from China; changes in geographic mix of our product sales; the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs, including share-based compensation expense; excess inventory and obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing; effects of value engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and operating plans. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and advanced services; the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals; share-based compensation expense; and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business. Research and Development ("R&D"), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative ("G&A") Expenses R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Variance in Percent Research and development $ 1,452 $ 1,339 $ 113 8.4 % $ 2,883 $ 2,714 $ 169 6.2 % Percentage of net sales 12.0 % 11.6 % 12.0 % 11.9 % Sales and marketing 2,387 2,395 (8 ) (0.3 )% 4,803 4,847 (44 ) (0.9 )% Percentage of net sales 19.7 % 20.8 % 20.0 % 21.3 % General and administrative 584 497 87 17.5 % 1,144 1,049 95 9.1 % Percentage of net sales 4.8 % 4.3 % 4.8 % 4.6 % Total $ 4,423 $ 4,231 $ 192 4.5 % $ 8,830 $ 8,610 $ 220 2.6 % Percentage of net sales 36.6 % 36.7 % 36.8 % 37.8 % R&D Expenses The increase in R&D expenses for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2012, was primarily due to higher headcount-related expenses attributable in large part to our acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013. Partially offsetting these costs was lower share-based compensation expense. We continue to invest in R&D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, or we may partner with or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R&D. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $8 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, as compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2012. The decrease was primarily in sales expenses where lower discretionary spending and lower share-based compensation expense were partially offset by higher headcount-related expense resulting largely from our acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013. Marketing expenses were relatively flat as higher headcount-related expenses and discretionary spending for prototype development were offset by lower share-based compensation expense. Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $44 million for the first six months of fiscal 2013, as compared with the first six months of fiscal 2012, due to lower expenses in both sales and marketing. The decrease in sales expenses was primarily due to lower headcount-related expenses as well as lower share-based compensation expense, partially offset by sales expenses attributable to NDS. The decrease in marketing expenses was primarily due to lower discretionary spending and lower share-based compensation expense. G&A Expenses G&A expenses increased in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2012, primarily due to increased headcount-related expenses attributable in part to the acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013, and higher corporate-level expenses. Corporate-level expenses, which tended to vary from period to period, included operational infrastructure activities such as real estate actions; IT project implementations, which included investments in our global data center infrastructure; and investments related to operational and financial systems. 60 Effect of Foreign Currency In the second quarter of fiscal 2013, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased the combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by $47 million, or approximately 1.1%, compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2012. In the first six months of fiscal 2013, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased the combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by $149 million , or approximately 1.7% , compared with the first six months of fiscal 2012. Headcount Our headcount increased by approximately 1,100 employees in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 and increased by approximately 6,800 employees in the first six months of fiscal 2013. The increase for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 was attributable to headcount from acquisitions, the largest of which was Meraki, as well as strategic hiring primarily in engineering and services. The increase for the first six months of fiscal 2013 was attributable to these factors as well as the acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013. Share-Based Compensation Expense The following table presents share-based compensation expense (in millions): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Cost of sales - product $ 11 $ 14 $ 21 $ 27 Cost of sales - service 36 40 71 77 Share-based compensation expense in cost of sales 47 54 92 104 Research and development 72 99 156 200 Sales and marketing 135 149 265 291 General and administrative 48 54 98 102 Restructuring and other charges (2 ) (3 ) (2 ) Share-based compensation expense in operating expenses 255 300 516 591 Total share-based compensation expense $ 302 $ 354 $ 608 $ 695 The year-over-year decrease in share-based compensation expense for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013, as compared with the corresponding prior year periods, was due primarily to the effect of a decrease in the aggregate value of share-based awards granted in recent periods. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses (in millions): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses $ 118 $ 97 $ 240 $ 196 The increase in amortization of purchased intangible assets for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013, as compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2012, was due to amortization of purchased intangible assets from our acquisitions of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013, and from our other, more recent acquisitions. For additional information regarding purchased intangible assets, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets. 61 Restructuring and Other Charges In the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013, we incurred within operating expenses net restructuring and other charges of approximately $13 million and $72 million , respectively. These charges were related primarily to employee severance charges for employees subject to our workforce reduction that we announced in late fiscal 2011. In the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2012, we incurred within operating expenses restructuring and other charges of $3 million and $205 million , respectively. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating Income The following table presents our operating income and our operating income as a percentage of revenue (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Operating income $ 2,789 $ 2,734 $ 5,440 $ 4,944 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 23.1 % 23.7 % 22.7 % 21.7 % In the second quarter of fiscal 2013, as compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2012, operating income increased by 2% , and as a percentage of revenue operating income decreased by 0.6 percentage points. The decrease largely resulted from a lower gross margin, as operating expenses as a percentage of revenue remained relatively flat on a year-over-year basis. In the first six months of fiscal 2013, as compared with the first six months of fiscal 2012, operating income increased by 10% , and as a percentage of revenue operating income increased by 1.0 percentage points. The increases largely resulted from the following: revenue growth; effective expense management which resulted in lower total R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses as a percentage of revenue; lower restructuring and other charges; and lower share-based compensation expense. Interest and Other Income (Loss), Net Interest Income (Expense), Net The following table summarizes interest income and interest expense (in millions): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Interest income $ 160 $ 158 $ 2 $ 321 $ 322 $ (1 ) Interest expense (147 ) (150 ) 3 (295 ) (298 ) 3 Interest income (expense), net $ 13 $ 8 $ 5 $ 26 $ 24 $ 2 For the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013, interest income remained fairly constant compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2012. Increased interest income earned on financing receivables was substantially offset by lower interest income from our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents, and fixed income investments as a result of lower average rates of interest on our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents, and fixed income investments. For the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013, interest expense decreased slightly compared with the corresponding periods in fiscal 2012 due to lower average rates of interest on our debt in the current fiscal periods. 62 Other Income (Loss), Net The components of other income (loss), net, are summarized as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended Six Months Ended January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars January 26, 2013 January 28, 2012 Variance in Dollars Gains (losses) on investments, net: Publicly traded equity securities $ 4 $ 31 $ (27 ) $ 14 $ 15 $ (1 ) Fixed income securities 9 6 3 26 31 (5 ) Total available-for-sale investments 13 37 (24 ) 40 46 (6 ) Privately held companies (12 ) (39 ) 27 (54 ) (35 ) (19 ) Net gains (losses) on investments 1 (2 ) 3 (14 ) 11 (25 ) Other gains (losses), net (23 ) 9 (32 ) (41 ) 15 (56 ) Other income (loss), net $ (22 ) $ 7 $ (29 ) $ (55 ) $ 26 $ (81 ) The decrease in total net gains on available-for-sale investments in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2012 was attributable to significantly lower net gains on publicly traded equity securities, partially offset by slightly higher gains on fixed income securities in the current period as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities. The change in net losses on investments in privately held companies was driven primarily by lower equity method losses in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, related in part to lower losses from our proportional share of the VCE joint venture. The change in other gains (losses), net for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 as compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2012 was primarily due to foreign exchange impacts and an increase in donations. The decrease in total net gains on available-for-sale investments in the first six months of fiscal 2013 compared with the first six months of fiscal 2012 was attributable primarily to lower gains on fixed income securities in the current period as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities. The change in net losses on investments in privately held companies was driven primarily by higher equity method losses in the first six months of fiscal 2013. The change in other gains (losses), net for the first six months of fiscal 2013 as compared with the first six months of fiscal 2012 was primarily due to foreign exchange impacts and an increase in donations. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates, higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates, and by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives. Our provision for income taxes does not include provisions for U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that we intend to reinvest indefinitely in our foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. Our provision for (benefit from) income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of ( 13.1% ) for the second quarter of fiscal 2013, as compared with an effective tax rate of 20.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2012, which resulted in a net 33.7 percentage point decrease for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 as compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2012. Our provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 3.3% for the first six months of fiscal 2013 compared with 20.7% for the first six months of fiscal 2012, which resulted in a net 17.4 percentage point decrease for the first six months of fiscal 2013, as compared with the first six months of fiscal 2012. The decrease in the effective tax rates for both the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2013, as compared to the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2012, was primarily due to the recognition of a net benefit to the provision for income taxes of $794 million related to our settlement with the IRS of all outstanding items covering fiscal years 2002 through 2007 and a tax benefit of $132 million related to the reinstatement of the U.S. federal R&D tax credit, of which $72 million related to fiscal 2012 R&D expenses. 63 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, contractual obligations, other commitments, and the stock repurchase program on our liquidity and capital resources. Balance Sheet and Cash Flows Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions): January 26, 2013 July 28, 2012 Increase (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,847 $ 9,799 $ (2,952 ) Fixed income securities 37,421 37,297 124 Publicly traded equity securities 2,108 1,620 488 Total $ 46,376 $ 48,716 $ (2,340 ) The decrease in cash and cash equivalents and investments in the first six months of fiscal 2013 was primarily the result of cash paid for acquisitions of $6.0 billion . Other significant uses of cash in the first six months of fiscal 2013 included cash dividends paid of $1.5 billion , the repurchase of common stock of $0.9 billion , and capital expenditures of $0.6 billion . Partially offsetting these cash outflows were cash provided by operating activities of $5.8 billion , an increase from $5.4 billion provided in the first six months of fiscal 2012, and issuance of common stock of $0.7 billion . The increase in cash provided by operating activities in the first six months of fiscal 2013 compared with the corresponding period in fiscal 2012 was primarily the result of an increase in net income. Our total in cash and cash equivalents and investments held by various foreign subsidiaries was $39.4 billion and $42.5 billion as of January 26, 2013 and July 28, 2012, respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. The balance available in the United States as of January 26, 2013 and July 28, 2012 was $7.0 billion and $6.2 billion , respectively. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our fixed income investment portfolio consisting primarily of high-quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and payment of dividends. We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, deferred revenue, excess tax benefits resulting from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this report. Accounts Receivable, Net The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions), and DSO: January 26, 2013 July 28, 2012 Increase (Decrease) Accounts receivable, net $ 4,462 $ 4,369 $ 93 DSO 34 34 Our accounts receivable net, as of January 26, 2013 increased by approximately 2% compared with the end of fiscal 2012. Our DSO as of January 26, 2013 was flat compared with the end of fiscal 2012. DSO was flat as the favorable impact from an improvement in shipment linearity during the second quarter of fiscal 2013, compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, was offset by the timing of collections. 64 Inventory Supply Chain The following table summarizes our inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns): January 26, 2013 July 28, 2012 Increase (Decrease) Inventories $ 1,574 $ 1,663 $ (89 ) Annualized inventory turns 11.6 11.7 (0.1 ) Purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers $ 3,824 $ 3,869 $ (45 ) Inventories as of January 26, 2013 decreased by 5% from our balance at the end of fiscal 2012, and for the same period purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers declined by approximately 1% . On a combined basis, inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers decreased by 2% compared with the end of fiscal 2012. The inventory decrease was due mainly to lower levels of manufactured finished goods. The decline in purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers as of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2013, as compared with the end of fiscal 2012, was attributable to further optimization of our supply chain. We believe our inventory and purchase commitments levels are in line with our current demand forecasts. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Our purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity. We record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. The purchase commitments for inventory are expected to be primarily fulfilled within one year. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels. Financing Receivables and Guarantees We measure our net balance sheet exposure position related to our financing receivables and financing guarantees by reducing the total of gross financing receivables and financing guarantees by the associated allowances for credit loss and deferred revenue. As of January 26, 2013 , our net balance sheet exposure position related to financing receivables and financing guarantees was as follows (in millions): FINANCING RECEIVABLES FINANCING GUARANTEES TOTAL January 26, 2013 Lease Receivables Loan Receivables Financed Service Contracts and Other Total Channel Partner End-User Customers Total Gross receivables, net of unearned income $ 3,444 $ 1,785 $ 2,863 $ 8,092 $ 491 $ 254 $ 745 $ 8,837 Allowance for credit loss (247 ) (101 ) (13 ) (361 ) (361 ) Deferred revenue (67 ) (58 ) (1,943 ) (2,068 ) (267 ) (217 ) (484 ) (2,552 ) Net balance sheet exposure $ 3,130 $ 1,626 $ 907 $ 5,663 $ 224 $ 37 $ 261 $ 5,924 65 Financing Receivables Gross financing receivables less unearned income increased by 6% compared with the end of fiscal 2012. The change was primarily due to an 8% increase in both lease receivables and financed service contracts and other, partially reduced by a 1% decline in loan receivables. We provide financing to certain end-user customers and channel partners to enable sales of our products, services, and networking solutions. These financing arrangements include leases, financed service contracts, and loans. Arrangements related to leases are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables include sales-type and direct-financing leases. We also provide certain qualified customers financing for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services and advanced services. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. We expect to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term. Financing Guarantees In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are de-recognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and in some cases, we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Historically, our payments under these arrangements have been immaterial. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed. Deferred Revenue Related to Financing Receivables and Guarantees The majority of the deferred revenue in the preceding table is related to financed service contracts. The majority of the revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred as the revenue related to financed service contracts is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed. A portion of the revenue related to lease and loan receivables is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue recognition criteria not currently having been met. Borrowings Senior Notes The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions): January 26, 2013 July 28, 2012 Senior notes: Floating-rate notes, due 2014 $ 1,250 $ 1,250 1.625% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 2,000 2,000 2.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2014 500 500 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2016 3,000 3,000 3.15% fixed-rate notes, due 2017 750 750 4.95% fixed-rate notes, due 2019 2,000 2,000 4.45% fixed-rate notes, due 2020 2,500 2,500 5.90% fixed-rate notes, due 2039 2,000 2,000 5.50% fixed-rate notes, due 2040 2,000 2,000 Total $ 16,000 $ 16,000 Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Interest is payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of January 26, 2013 . Commercial Paper In fiscal 2011 we established a short-term debt financing program of up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper notes. As of January 26, 2013 and July 28, 2012, we had no commercial paper notes outstanding under this program. 66 Other Borrowings Short-term debt includes notes and credit facilities with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain of our foreign subsidiaries. The amount of borrowings outstanding under these arrangements was $37 million and $31 million as of January 26, 2013 and July 28, 2012, respectively. As of January 26, 2013 and July 28, 2012, we also had an additional $10 million of long-term debt, in addition to our senior notes. Credit Facility On February 17, 2012, we terminated our then-existing credit facility and entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on February 17, 2017. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50%, Bank of America's prime rate as announced from time to time, or one-month LIBOR plus 1.00%, or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard & Poor's Financial Services, LLC and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. As of January 26, 2013 , we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. We may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $2.0 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility by up to two years, or up to February 17, 2019. Deferred Revenue The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions): January 26, 2013 July 28, 2012 Increase (Decrease) Service $ 9,055 $ 9,173 $ (118 ) Product 4,266 3,707 559 Total $ 13,321 $ 12,880 $ 441 Reported as: Current $ 9,108 $ 8,852 $ 256 Noncurrent 4,213 4,028 185 Total $ 13,321 $ 12,880 $ 441 The 1% decrease in deferred service revenue reflects the ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue, partially offset by the impact of new contract initiations and renewals in the first six months of fiscal 2013. The increase in deferred product revenue was primarily due to increased deferrals related to subscription revenue arrangements and higher cash receipts related to unrecognized revenue from two-tier distributors as a result of an improvement in the linearity of shipments to these distributors. Contractual Obligations Operating Leases We lease office space in many U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites include sites in Australia, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom. We also lease equipment and vehicles. The future minimum lease payments under all of our noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of January 26, 2013 were $1.1 billion . Other Commitments In connection with our business combinations and asset purchases, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or continued employment with us of certain employees of acquired entities. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were $133 million as of January 26, 2013 , compared with $120 million as of July 28, 2012. 67 Insieme Networks, Inc. ("Insieme") In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we made an investment in Insieme, an early stage company focused on research and development in the data center market. As set forth in the agreement between Cisco and Insieme, this investment includes $100 million of funding and a license to certain of our technology. In addition, pursuant to a November 2012 amendment to the agreement between Cisco and Insieme, we agreed to invest an additional $35 million in Insieme upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. As of January 26, 2013, we owned approximately 87% of Insieme as a result of these investments and have consolidated the results of Insieme in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with this investment, we have entered into a put/call option agreement that provides us with the right to purchase the remaining interests in Insieme. In addition, the noncontrolling interest holders can require us to purchase their shares upon the occurrence of certain events. If we acquire the remaining interests of Insieme, the noncontrolling interest holders are eligible to receive two milestone payments, which will be determined using agreed-upon formulas based on revenue for certain of Insieme's products. We will begin recognizing the amounts due under the milestone payments when it is determined that such payments are probable of being earned, which we expect may be in fiscal 2014. When such a determination is made, the milestone payments will then be recorded as compensation expense by us based on an estimate of the fair value of the amounts probable of being earned, pursuant to a vesting schedule. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the amounts probable of being earned and the continued vesting will result in adjustments to the recorded compensation expense. The maximum amount that could be recorded as compensation expense by us is approximately $863 million . This amount was increased from up to a previous maximum of $750 million, as a result of the November 2012 amendment, as the parties recognized that higher staffing levels may be necessary to perform additional product development. The milestone payments, if earned, are expected to be paid primarily during fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2017. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and customer financings, and we have determined that as of January 26, 2013 there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities. VCE is a joint venture that we formed in fiscal 2010 with EMC Corporation (EMC), with investments from VMware, Inc. (VMware) and Intel Corporation. VCE helps organizations leverage best-in-class technologies and disciplines from Cisco, EMC, and VMware to enable the transformation to cloud computing. As of January 26, 2013 , our cumulative gross investment in VCE was approximately $457 million , inclusive of accrued interest, and our ownership percentage was approximately 35% . We account for our investment in VCE under the equity method, and our portion of VCE's net loss is recognized in other income (loss), net. As of January 26, 2013, we have recorded cumulative losses since inception from VCE of $325 million . Our carrying value in VCE as of January 26, 2013 was $132 million . Over the next 12 months, as VCE scales its operations, we expect that we will make additional investments in VCE and may incur additional losses proportionate with our share ownership. From time to time, EMC and Cisco may enter into guarantee agreements on behalf of VCE to indemnify third parties, such as customers, for monetary damages. Such guarantees were not material as of January 26, 2013 . On an ongoing basis, we reassess our investments in privately held companies and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance. As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events. We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the previous discussion of these financing guarantees under Financing Receivables and Guarantees. Securities Lending We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale investments. These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. The average daily balance of securities lending for the six months ended January 26, 2013 and January 28, 2012 was $0.8 billion and $0.4 billion , respectively. We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against collateral losses. As of January 26, 2013 and July 28, 2012, we had no outstanding securities lending transactions. We believe these arrangements do not present a material risk or impact to our liquidity requirements. 68 Stock Repurchase Program In September 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of January 26, 2013 , our Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $82 billion of common stock under this program, and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $5.1 billion with no termination date. The stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program, reported based on the trade date, is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts): Shares Repurchased Weighted-Average Price per Share Amount Repurchased Cumulative balance at July 28, 2012 3,740 $ 20.36 $ 76,133 Repurchase of common stock under the stock repurchase program 40 18.73 753 Cumulative balance at January 26, 2013 3,780 $ 20.34 $ 76,886 Dividends During fiscal 2013 and 2012, our Board of Directors declared the following dividends (in millions, except per-share amounts): Declaration Date Dividend per Share Record Date Amount Payment Date Fiscal 2013 November 15, 2012 $ 0.14 November 29, 2012 $ 743 December 19, 2012 August 14, 2012 0.14 October 4, 2012 744 October 24, 2012 Total $ 0.28 $ 1,487 Fiscal 2012 June 14, 2012 $ 0.08 July 5, 2012 $ 425 July 25, 2012 February 7, 2012 0.08 April 5, 2012 432 April 25, 2012 December 15, 2011 0.06 January 5, 2012 322 January 25, 2012 September 20, 2011 0.06 October 6, 2011 322 October 26, 2011 Total $ 0.28 $ 1,501 Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and committed credit lines will satisfy, through at least the next 12 months, our liquidity requirements, both in total and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, pending acquisitions, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect the liquidity and the availability of, as well as our requirements for, capital resources. 69