Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Report including, without limitation, statements under this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Report, words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend and similar expressions, as they relate to us or the Companys management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Companys management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A of this Report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement. Overview We are a former blank check company incorporated on October 30, 2020 under the name Churchill Capital Corp III (formerly known as Butler Acquisition Corp). as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We completed our Initial Public Offering on February 19, 2020 and completed the Business Combination (as defined below) on October 8, 2020. Recent Developments On October 8, 2020, the Company consummated the previously announced business combination with MultiPlan Parent, Holdings, First Merger Sub and Second Merger Sub pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Upon the consummation of the Business Combination: (i) First Merger Sub was merged with and into MultiPlan Parent with MultiPlan Parent being the surviving company in the merger and (ii) immediately following the First Merger and as part of the same overall transaction as the First Merger, MultiPlan Parent was merged with and into Second Merger Sub, with Second Merger Sub surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. In connection with the closing of the Business Combination, the Company changed its name from Churchill Capital Corp III to Multiplan Corporation. Results of Operations Our only activities through September 30, 2020 were organizational activities, including those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for an initial business combination and consummating the Transactions. We generated non-operating income in the form of interest income on cash equivalents held in the Trust Account. We incurred expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with completing the Business Combination. For the three months ended September 30, 2020, we had a net loss of $8,657,677, which consists of operating costs of $8,615,032 and an income tax provision of $209,330, offset by interest income on cash equivalents held in the Trust Account of $160,319 and an unrealized gain on cash equivalents held in our Trust Account of $6,366. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we had a net loss of $6,961,179, which consists of operating costs of $10,676,879 and an income tax provision of $660,298, offset by interest income on cash equivalents held in the Trust Account of $4,375,998. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2020, we had cash equivalents held in the Trust Account of $1,104,025,998 (including approximately $4,026,000 of interest income and unrealized gains) consisting of money market funds. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through September 30, 2020, we withdrew $350,000 of interest earned on the Trust Account to pay our income taxes. For the nine months September 30, 2020, cash equivalents used in operating activities was $2,565,525. Net loss of $6,961,179 was affected by interest earned on cash held in the Trust Account of $4,375,998. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $8,771,652 of cash for operating activities. 14 We used substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account to complete the Business Combination. Funds held in the Trust Account were also used to fund the redemption of 8,693,855 shares of common stock. As of September 30, 2020, we had cash of $3,189,455 held outside the Trust Account. We used the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete an initial business combination. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2020. Contractual obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $50,000 for office space, administrative and support services to the Company. We began incurring these fees on February 13, 2020 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and our liquidation. In addition, we agreed to pay the underwriters a deferred fee of $38,500,000 in the aggregate. On February 13, 2020, underwriters agreed to waive the upfront underwriting discount on 17,990,000 Units, resulting in a reduction of the upfront underwriting discount of $3,598,000. The deferred fee was paid in cash upon the closing of the Business Combination. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Common stock subject to possible redemption We account for our common stock subject to possible conversion in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity . Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Net income per common share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Common stock subject to possible redemption which is not currently redeemable and is not redeemable at fair value, has been excluded from the calculation of basic net income per common share since such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of the Trust Account earnings. Our net income is adjusted for the portion of income that is attributable to common stock subject to possible redemption, as these shares only participate in the earnings of the Trust Account and not our income or losses. Recent accounting standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.