Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. Certain statements in this section are forward-looking statements as described in the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements of this annual report. A detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is outlined under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this annual report. The following section generally discusses the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 financial results and year-to-year analysis between these years. Discussions related to the year ended December 31, 2022 financial results and year-to-year analysis between the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 that are not included in this annual report can be found under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, which was filed with the SEC on February 27, 2024. Overview We are a leading global provider of transformative intelligence. We support the entire innovation lifecycle, from cultivating curiosity to protecting the worlds critical intellectual property assets. Whether its providing insights to advance an industry or accelerating the delivery of a critical drug, our vision at Clarivate is to fuel the worlds greatest breakthroughs by harnessing the power of human ingenuity. We offer enriched data, insights & analytics, workflow solutions, and expert services to our customers in the Academia & Government (A&G), Intellectual Property (IP), and Life Sciences & Healthcare (LS&H) end markets, which form the basis of our reportable segment structure. Within each of our three segments, we provide the following: Enriched data. Curated, up-to-date content collections validated by skilled data scientists and domain experts with real-world experience. Insights & analytics. Predictive analytics powered by a unique combination of AI-enabled software paired with human insights, developed and interpreted by PhD level experts. Workflow solutions. Automated, flexible software tools complemented by our enriched data sets and expert analysis tailored to meet specific needs. Expert services. We are home to industry specialists, consultants, and data scientists with deep subject-matter expertise and global experience. For further information about our business, customers, segments, and people, see Item 1. Business included in Part I of this annual report. Key Performance Indicators We regularly monitor organic revenue growth, annualized contract value, annual renewal rates, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, and Free cash flow as key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business and trends, measure performance, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, and Free cash flow are financial measures that are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP). Although we believe these measures may be useful to investors in evaluating our business, these measures are not a substitute for GAAP financial measures or disclosures. Reconciliations of our non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are provided further below. Organic revenue growth We review year-over-year organic revenue growth in our segments as a key measure of our success in addressing customer needs. We also review year-over-year organic revenue growth by transaction type to help us identify and address broad changes in product mix, and by geography to help us identify and address changes and revenue trends by region. We define the components of revenue growth as follows: 25 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Organic. Revenue generated from pricing, up-selling, securing new customers, sales of new or enhanced product offerings, and any other revenue change drivers except for changes from acquisitions, disposals, and foreign currency. Acquisitions. Revenue generated from acquired products and services from the date of acquisition to the first anniversary date of that acquisition. Disposals. Revenue generated in the comparative prior year period from product lines, services, and/or businesses divested from the date of the sale in the current period presented or included within a disposal group. Foreign Currency (FX). The difference between current revenue at current exchange rates and current revenue at the corresponding prior period exchange rates. Annualized contract value Our annualized contract value (ACV), at any point in time, represents the annualized value of all active customer subscription-based license agreements for the next 12 months, assuming those coming up for renewal during the measurement period are renewed at their current price level. We use ACV as a key indicator of the health and trajectory of our core business as well as to assist in the evaluation of underlying sales execution and customer engagement trends. This metric is particularly important to us because the majority of our revenues are generated from subscription-based license agreements. Actual subscription revenues that we recognize during any 12-month period are likely to differ from ACV at the beginning of that period, sometimes significantly, due to subsequent changes in volume (including upgrades, downgrades, new business, and cancellations) and price, acquisitions and divestitures, and changes in FX. Our organic ACV grew 0.9% in 2024, compared to 2023, primarily driven by price increases. Our total ACV for 2024, compared to 2023, declined 1.1% primarily due to the ScholarOne divestiture in November 2024. Annual renewal rate Our annual renewal rate, at any point in time, represents (a) the annualized value of all active customer subscription-based license agreements renewed during the measurement period (including the value of any product downgrades), divided by (b) the annualized value of all active subscription-based license agreements that were up for renewal during the measurement period. Open renewals, which we define as active customer subscription-based license agreements that were up for renewal during the measurement period but were neither renewed nor canceled, are excluded from both the numerator and denominator of the calculation. Additionally, the impact from product downgrades upon renewal is reflected in the annual renewal calculation, but the impact from product upgrades is not, because upgrades reflect the purchase of additional products and services. The impact of upgrades, new subscriptions, and product price increases is reflected in ACV, but not in annual renewal rates. As the majority of our revenues are generated from subscription-based license agreements, we use the annual renewal rate as a key indicator of our ability to retain existing customers, evaluate the execution of our sales strategy and customer engagement trends, and to help analyze our historical results and prepare financial projections. Our annual renewal rate for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 was 92% and 92%, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin We use Adjusted EBITDA as a basis for evaluating our ongoing operating performance, and we believe it is useful for investors to understand the underlying trends of our operations. Adjusted EBITDA represents Net income (loss) before the Provision (benefit) for income taxes, Depreciation and amortization, and Interest expense, net, adjusted to exclude acquisition and/or disposal-related transaction costs, share-based compensation, restructuring expenses, impairments, the impact of certain non-cash fair value adjustments on financial instruments, unrealized foreign currency gains/losses, legal settlements, and other items that are included in Net income (loss) for the period that we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by Revenues. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by any of the adjusted items, or that our projections and estimates will be realized in their entirety or at all. In addition, because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of liquidity or discretionary cash available to us to fund our cash needs, including investing in the growth of our business and meeting our obligations. For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin to Net income (loss) and Net income (loss) margin, refer to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin (non-GAAP measures) below. 26 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Free cash flow We use Free cash flow in our operational and financial decision-making and believe it is useful to investors because similar measures are frequently used by securities analysts, investors, ratings agencies, and other interested parties to measure the ability of a company to service its debt. Our presentation of Free cash flow should not be considered as a measure of liquidity or discretionary cash available to us to fund our cash needs, including investing in the growth of our business and meeting our obligations. We define Free cash flow as Net cash provided by operating activities less Capital expenditures. For further discussion related to Free cash flow, including a reconciliation to Net cash provided by operating activities, refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Flows below. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make significant judgments and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we review these estimates on an ongoing basis. We consider the following accounting policies and associated estimates to be critical to understanding our financial statements because the application of these policies requires managements subjective or complex judgments about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. These significant judgments could have a material impact on our financial statements if actual performance should differ from historical experience or from our initial estimates, or if our assumptions were to change. For further information about our significant accounting policies, including the policies discussed below, see Note 1 - Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. Revenue Recognition Most of our products and services are provided under agreements containing standard terms and conditions. The majority of our revenue is derived from subscription arrangements, which generally are initially deferred and then recognized ratably over the contract term. These arrangements typically do not require any significant judgments or estimates about when revenue should be recognized. A limited number of re-occurring and transaction agreements contain multiple performance obligations. We apply judgment in identifying the separate performance obligations to be delivered under the arrangement and allocating the transaction price based on the estimated standalone selling price of each performance obligation. Business Combinations We apply the acquisition method of accounting to our business combinations. Substantially all of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and contingent consideration are allocated based on their estimated fair values, which requires significant management judgment. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions we believe are reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. We estimate the fair value of customer relationship intangible assets through a discounted cash flow (DCF) model using the multi-period excess earnings method, which involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions related to projected revenue growth rates, EBITDA margins, projected cash flows, royalty rates, tax rates, discount rates, tax amortization benefits, and customer attrition rates, among other items. We estimate the fair value of technology, databases, and trade name intangible assets through a DCF model using the relief-from-royalty method, which involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions related to projected revenue growth rates, royalty rates, tax rates, discount rates, tax amortization benefits, and obsolescence rates. Significant estimates and assumptions used in determining the fair value of intangible assets may change during the finalization of the purchase price allocation as additional information about assets at the date of acquisition becomes available; as a result, we may make adjustments to the initial provisional amounts recorded for intangible assets acquired in the year following acquisition. When a business combination involves contingent consideration, we record a liability for the estimated cost of such contingencies when expenditures are probable and reasonably estimable. A significant amount of judgment is required to estimate and quantify the potential liability in these matters. We engage outside experts as deemed necessary or appropriate to assist in the calculation of the liability; however, management is responsible for evaluating the estimate. We reassess the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration at the end of each quarter and record any changes in value as necessary. 27 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill We perform goodwill impairment testing during the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that carrying value may not be recoverable. In assessing whether a potential impairment event has occurred, we evaluate various factors, many of which are subjective and require significant judgment. Examples of such factors include significant negative industry or economic trends, persistent declines in our market value, significant changes in regulatory requirements or the legal environment, and segment changes. We engage outside experts as deemed necessary to assist in estimating the fair value of a reporting unit using a DCF model. Our DCF model relies significantly on our internal forecasts of future cash flows and long-term growth rates. Significant judgments and estimates made in this analysis include projected revenue growth rates and EBITDA margins, tax rates, terminal values, and discount rates. The use of a different set of assumptions and estimates could result in materially different results. Between 2022 and 2024, we have performed the following goodwill impairment assessments, with the associated results of each assessment: Q3-22(1) Q4-22 Q4-23(1) Q2-24(2) Q4-24(2) Type of assessment Quantitative, interim Qualitative, annual Quantitative, annual Quantitative, interim Quantitative, annual Goodwill impairment: A&G $ (1,745.8) $ $ $ $ IP (2,662.1) (582.2) LS&H (265.5) (302.8) (149.1) Total $ (4,407.9) $ $ (847.7) $ (302.8) $ (149.1) (1) The impairments were primarily due to worsening macroeconomic and market conditions and sustained declines in our share price. (2) The impairments were primarily due to sustained declines in our share price. Consistent with all of our quantitative goodwill impairment assessments, we used a DCF model in our interim and annual 2024 assessments to estimate the fair value of our segment reporting units. We then compared the estimated fair value to the carrying value for both of the reporting units carrying a goodwill balance (our IP reporting unit was previously fully impaired in 2023). Based on these assessments, while the estimated fair value decreased for all reporting units, we concluded that the estimated fair value of the A&G reporting unit was still substantially in excess of its carrying value. For the LS&H reporting unit, we determined the carrying value exceeded its fair value in both assessments; consequently, we recorded total goodwill impairment charges of $451.9 for 2024. In completing our most recent goodwill impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of 2024, we used weighted average cost of capital (WACC) discount rate assumptions of 10.5% and 9% for the A&G and LS&H reporting units, respectively. The discount rates were derived using a capital asset pricing model and analyzing published rates for industries relevant to each reporting unit to estimate the cost of equity financing. We used discount rates we believe to be commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the respective reporting units and in our internally developed forecasts. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate would have resulted in an incremental impairment charge of approximately $62 for the LS&H reporting unit and the fair value of the A&G reporting unit would be approximately 14% in excess of its carrying value. Continued sustained declines in our share price, other adverse developments in economic or market conditions, or shortfalls in our projections or estimates could require additional impairment charges in the future. Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Our indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of purchased brand trade names. In 2024, 2023, and 2022, we used a qualitative assessment to evaluate events and circumstances that might impact the value of each trade name. We did not identify any impairments of our indefinite-lived intangible assets in 2024, 2023, or 2022. 28 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Long-Lived Assets (including Other Intangible Assets) We evaluate long-lived assets, including property and equipment, definite-lived intangible assets, and right-of-use lease assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset group may not be recoverable. Upon such an occurrence, we assess recoverability by comparing the carrying amount of the asset group to our estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset group over its remaining life. We exercise judgment in selecting the appropriate assumptions to use in the estimated future undiscounted cash flows analysis. If the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its estimated future cash flows, we recognize an impairment charge equal to the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. Share-Based Compensation Share-based compensation expense includes cost associated with stock options, restricted share units (RSUs), and performance share units (PSUs) granted to certain key members of management. The share-based compensation cost of time-based RSU and PSU grants is calculated by multiplying the grant date fair value by the number of shares granted. We engage a third-party valuation expert to perform a Monte Carlo simulation that estimates the grant date fair value for PSUs that have a market-based modifier component. We recognize compensation expense over the vesting period of the award on a graded-scale basis, and we recognize forfeitures as they occur. Each quarter, we estimate the number of shares that are expected to vest and adjust our expense accordingly. Income Taxes We recognize income taxes under the asset and liability method. Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect our best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense for financial statement purposes. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence factors, including historical and projected future taxable income by tax jurisdiction, character and timing of income or loss, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Unforeseen future events, such as changes in market conditions and changes in tax laws, could have a material impact on the realizability of deferred tax assets. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We record tax benefits when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Because of the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution of our uncertain tax positions may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimates. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information is available. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion related to recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 - Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. 29 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % Revenues $ 2,556.7 $ 2,628.8 (72.1) (3)% Operating expenses: Cost of revenues 869.2 906.4 (37.2) (4)% Selling, general and administrative costs 727.6 739.7 (12.1) (2)% Depreciation and amortization 727.0 708.3 18.7 3% Goodwill and intangible asset impairments 540.7 979.9 (439.2) (45)% Restructuring and other impairments 19.6 40.0 (20.4) (51)% Other operating expense (income), net (51.8) (10.8) (41.0) N/M Total operating expenses 2,832.3 3,363.5 Income (loss) from operations (275.6) (734.7) Fair value adjustment of warrants (5.2) (15.9) 10.7 (67)% Interest expense, net 283.4 293.7 (10.3) (4)% Income (loss) before income tax (553.8) (1,012.5) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 82.9 (101.3) 184.2 N/M Net income (loss) (636.7) (911.2) Dividends on preferred shares 31.3 75.4 (44.1) (58)% Net income (loss) attributable to ordinary shares $ (668.0) $ (986.6) N/M - Represents a change approximately equal to or in excess of 100% or is not meaningful. As discussed below and in the notes to the financial statements, the following factors had a significant impact on the comparability of our results of operations between the periods presented and may affect the comparability of our results of operations in future periods: In December 2024, our Board approved the wind-down of three product groups within the LS&H and A&G segments, which is expected to reduce revenues and profit by less than 10% and 5%, respectively. In November 2024, we completed the sale of our ScholarOne business within our A&G segment. In 2023 and 2024, we recognized substantial goodwill impairments. Revenues The tables below present the changes in revenues by transaction type, segment, and geography, as well as the components driving the changes between periods. Revenues by transaction type Year Ended December 31, Change % of Change 2024 2023 $ % Acquisitions Disposals FX Organic Subscription $ 1,626.8 $ 1,618.1 $ 8.7 0.5 % 0.1 % (0.3) % (0.2) % 0.9 % Re-occurring 429.8 444.6 (14.8) (3.3) % % % (0.2) % (3.1) % Recurring revenues $ 2,056.6 $ 2,062.7 $ (6.1) (0.3) % 0.1 % (0.2) % (0.3) % 0.1 % Transactional 500.1 566.1 (66.0) (11.7) % 0.2 % (5.3) % % (6.6) % Revenues $ 2,556.7 $ 2,628.8 $ (72.1) (2.7) % 0.1 % (1.3) % (0.1) % (1.4) % Subscription revenues increased primarily due to organic growth driven by price increases, partially offset by lower net volume in IP and LS&H. Re-occurring revenues decreased primarily due to lower IP patent renewal volume. Transactional revenues decreased primarily due to lower A&G and LS&H sales, as well as the IP product group divestiture. 30 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Revenues by segment Year Ended December 31, Change % of Change 2024 2023 $ % Acquisitions Disposals FX Organic A&G $ 1,326.4 $ 1,323.3 $ 3.1 0.2 % % (0.4) % (0.1) % 0.7 % IP 811.4 862.7 (51.3) (5.9) % 0.1 % (3.1) % (0.2) % (2.7) % LS&H 418.9 442.8 (23.9) (5.4) % 0.6 % (0.8) % (0.4) % (4.8) % Revenues $ 2,556.7 $ 2,628.8 $ (72.1) (2.7) % 0.1 % (1.3) % (0.1) % (1.4) % A&G segment revenues increased modestly, as subscription growth driven by price increases was offset by a decline in transactional volume and the ScholarOne divestiture. IP segment revenues decreased primarily due to the Valipat divestiture, lower subscription revenues, and lower IP renewal volume primarily within patents. LS&H segment revenues decreased primarily due to lower transactional and subscription revenues. Revenues by geography Year Ended December 31, Change % of Change 2024 2023 $ % Acquisitions Disposals FX Organic Americas $ 1,381.4 $ 1,405.5 $ (24.1) (1.7) % 0.2 % (0.5) % (0.2) % (1.2) % EMEA 667.8 707.5 (39.7) (5.6) % % (3.4) % 0.5 % (2.7) % APAC 507.5 515.8 (8.3) (1.6) % % (0.6) % (1.1) % 0.1 % Revenues $ 2,556.7 $ 2,628.8 $ (72.1) (2.7) % 0.1 % (1.3) % (0.1) % (1.4) % Americas revenues decreased primarily due to lower contributions from A&G and LS&H. EMEA (Europe/Middle East/Africa) revenues decreased primarily due to the IP product group divestiture and lower IP contribution. APAC (Asia Pacific) revenues decreased due to a stronger dollar against APAC currencies and the IP product group divestiture. Cost of revenues Cost of revenues consists of costs related to the production, servicing, and maintenance of our products and are composed primarily of related personnel costs, data center services and licensing costs, and costs to acquire or produce content including royalty fees. The decrease of 4.1% compared to 2023 was primarily driven by a reduction in share-based compensation expense, reduced product-related agent and content costs, and the Valipat divestiture. As a percentage of revenues, Cost of revenues decreased by 0.5% from the prior year. Selling, general and administrative costs Selling, general and administrative costs (SG&A) include nearly all business costs not directly attributable to the production, servicing, and maintenance of our products and are composed primarily of personnel costs, third-party professional services fees, facility costs like rent and utilities, technology costs associated with our corporate infrastructure, and transaction expenses associated with acquisitions, divestitures, and capital market activities including advisory, legal, and other professional and consulting costs. The decrease of 1.6% compared to 2023 was primarily driven by a reduction in share-based compensation expense. As a percentage of revenues, SG&A costs increased by 0.4% from the prior year. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation expense relates to our fixed assets, including computer hardware, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. Amortization expense relates to our definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, technology and content, internally developed computer software, and trade names. The increase of 2.6% compared to 2023 was primarily driven by increased investment in internally developed computer software and content assets. As a percentage of revenues, Depreciation and amortization increased by 1.5% from the prior year. 31 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Goodwill and intangible asset impairments We recorded goodwill impairment charges of $465.7 and $847.7 in 2024 and 2023, respectively, primarily due to sustained declines in our share price and worsening macroeconomic and market conditions In December 2024, our Board approved the wind-down of three product groups within the LS&H and A&G segments in connection with the Value Creation Plan and we recorded an intangible assets impairment charge of $75.0 to write down the carrying values of the associated intangibles, primarily technology and content assets, to their respective estimated net book values. In 2023, in connection with intangible assets classified as assets held-for-sale as of December 31, 2023, we recorded an intangible assets impairment charge of $132.2. For additional information regarding our recent goodwill and intangible asset impairments, see Note 6 - Other Intangible Assets, Net and Goodwill included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. Restructuring and other impairments Restructuring and other impairment expense includes costs associated with certain involuntary termination benefits, contract terminations, and other exit or disposal activities, as well as impairment charges primarily associated with right-of-use assets. Restructuring charges during the year ended December 31, 2024 were primarily associated with the Segment Optimization Program, which began in the second quarter of 2023 and is now substantially complete. Restructuring and impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2023 were primarily associated with the ProQuest Acquisition Integration Program, which was substantively completed in 2023, as well as a $6.1 write-off related to the impairment of two equity investments. As of December 31, 2024, the Value Creation Plan is our only active restructuring program. We expect to incur approximately $30 of additional restructuring costs associated with this program, primarily during 2025. For further information regarding each of our restructuring initiatives and impairment impacts, see Note 13 - Restructuring and Other Impairments included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. Other operating expense (income), net The increased income of $41.0 compared to 2023 was primarily driven by the $34.7 reduction in net loss associated with the net impact of realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, with the largest impacts derived from transactions denominated in GBP. In addition, we recognized a net gain on sale of $54.7 from divestitures completed in 2024, which did not contribute to the comparative change as significantly due to a gain of $49.4 recognized in 2023 related to a legal settlement. Fair value adjustment of warrants The adjustment in fair value, resulting in gains in the current and comparative prior year periods, was driven primarily by decreases in our share price and the remaining exercise period, both of which reduce the warrant value in the option valuation model. In May 2024, all remaining private placement warrants expired unexercised. Interest expense, net The decrease of 3.5% compared to 2023 was primarily driven by lower outstanding borrowings on our new term loan facility. Provision (benefit) for income taxes The income tax provision of $82.9 in 2024 was primarily driven by a $53.9 expense related to a new 15% corporate income tax enacted by a tax law change in Jersey, Channel Islands, a $10.2 expense to establish valuation allowances, and expenses from the mix of tax jurisdictions in which pre-tax profits and losses were recognized. These were partially offset by benefits of $16.6 and $14.2 associated with the impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, respectively. The income tax benefit of $101.3 in 2023 was primarily driven by a $70.4 benefit recorded on the settlement of an open tax dispute, benefits of $33.0 and $22.7 associated with the impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, respectively, and a $21.2 benefit relating to the partial release of valuation allowances. These were partially offset by expenses from the mix of tax jurisdictions in which pre-tax profits and losses were recognized. 32 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) In December 2021, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) issued model rules for a new global minimum tax framework under its Pillar Two initiative, and various governments around the world have issued, or have announced that they plan to issue, legislation consistent with the OECD model rules. We are within the scope of the OECD Pillar Two model rules. During the third quarter of 2023, the United Kingdom enacted legislation consistent with the OECD model rules, which became effective January 1, 2024. Based on our most recent tax filings, country-by-country reporting, and financial information available, we believe that most jurisdictions where we operate will qualify for transitional safe harbor relief. Although future legislation or changes in our financial results could materially increase our global minimum tax expense, this legislation did not have a direct material impact in 2024. During the fourth quarter of 2024, Jersey, Channel Islands, enacted legislation referred to as the Multinational Corporate Income Tax (MCIT), effective for accounting periods beginning January 1, 2025. Although the MCIT is designed to align with certain elements of the OECD model rules, it is distinct legislation that enacted a new 15% corporate income tax, which qualifies as a regular corporate income tax under ASC 740. Consequently, we recorded a deferred tax liability and deferred tax expense of $53.9 for the year ended December 31, 2024. Dividends on preferred shares Dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred shares (MCPS) were calculated and accrued at an annual rate of 5.25% of the liquidation preference of $100.00 per share. In June 2024, all outstanding MCPS automatically converted into 55.3 million ordinary shares at a conversion rate of 3.8462 ordinary shares per MCPS share. All accumulated preferred dividends were paid prior to the conversion, and as a result of the conversion, no further dividends will be accrued or paid. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin (non-GAAP measures) The following table presents our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, and reconciles these non-GAAP measures to our Net income (loss) and Net income (loss) margin for the same periods: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net income (loss) $ (636.7) $ (911.2) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 82.9 (101.3) Depreciation and amortization 727.0 708.3 Interest expense, net 283.4 293.7 Share-based compensation expense 60.6 108.9 Goodwill and intangible asset impairments 540.7 979.9 Restructuring and other impairments 19.6 40.0 Fair value adjustment of warrants (5.2) (15.9) Transaction related costs 17.9 8.2 Other(1) (29.8) 6.6 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,060.4 $ 1,117.2 Net income (loss) margin (24.9)% (34.7)% Adjusted EBITDA margin 41.5% 42.5% (1) Includes the net impact of unrealized foreign currency gains and losses and other items that do not reflect our ongoing operating performance. This amount includes a net gain on sale of $54.7 from divestitures in 2024 and a gain of $49.4 related to a legal settlement in 2023. See Note 2 - Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 17 - Commitments and Contingencies for further details. Liquidity and Capital Resources We finance our operations primarily through cash generated by operating activities and through borrowing activities. As of December 31, 2024, we had $295.2 of cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash of $10.5) and $692.3 of available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility. 33 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Cash Flows We have historically generated significant cash flows from our operating activities. Our subscription-based revenue model provides a steady and predictable source of revenue and cash flow for us, as we typically receive payments from our customers at the start of the subscription period (usually 12 months) and recognize revenue ratably throughout that period. Our high customer renewal rate, stable margins, and efforts to improve operating efficiencies and working capital management also contribute to our ability to generate solid operating cash flows. The following table discloses our consolidated cash flows by activity for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 646.6 $ 744.2 $ (97.6) (13) % Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities $ (236.7) $ (237.4) $ 0.7 % Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities $ (470.1) $ (496.5) $ 26.4 (5) % The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was driven by lower operating results and higher working capital requirements primarily due to timing of payments. Net cash used for investing activities was stable compared to 2023, as higher capital spending was offset by an increase in net proceeds from acquisitions and divestitures. The decrease in net cash used for financing activities was primarily driven by lower payments on our MCPS dividends. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we repurchased $200.0 and $100.0 of our ordinary shares, respectively, and made prepayments of $198.1 and $300.0 on our term loans. Free cash flow (non-GAAP measure) The following table reconciles our non-GAAP Free cash flow measure to Net cash provided by operating activities: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 646.6 $ 744.2 Capital expenditures (289.1) (242.5) Free cash flow $ 357.5 $ 501.7 The decrease in Free cash flow was due to lower operating results, higher working capital requirements, and increased capital spending to drive product innovation. Our capital expenditures in both periods presented consisted primarily of capitalized labor, contract services, and other costs associated with product and content development. Borrowings As of December 31, 2024, we had $4,541.8 of outstanding borrowings under our notes and credit facilities. We incurred $283.4, $293.7 and $270.3 of interest expense associated with our debt obligations for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our contingent liabilities consist primarily of letters of credit and performance bonds and other similar obligations in the ordinary course of business. In January 2024, we refinanced our existing credit facilities to provide improved financial flexibility, including extending our debt maturities and lowering our annual cash interest costs. We amended our $750.0 revolving credit facility by reducing it to a $700.0 facility (with a letter of credit sublimit of $77.0) and extending the maturity date to January 31, 2029. We also made a prepayment of $47.4 on our existing term loans due in 2026 and then refinanced the remaining term loans with a new $2,150 tranche of term loans maturing in 2031. The interest rate margin for the new term loan facility decreased from 300 to 275 basis points per annum in the case of loans bearing interest by reference to Term SOFR. The term loans amortize in equal quarterly installments (the first installment was paid on June 28, 2024) equivalent to a rate of 1.00% per annum, with the balance due at maturity. Any optional prepayments are applied against the scheduled quarterly installments of principal in the direct order of maturity. We paid the first and second quarterly installments and, during the fourth quarter of 2024, made prepayments of $140.0. For further discussion related to our outstanding borrowings, see Note 9 - Debt included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. 34 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Commitments and Contingencies In addition to the scheduled future debt repayments that we will need to make, we also have commitments and plans related to our share repurchase program and capital expenditures. The authorization for the share repurchase program in effect during 2024 terminated on December 31, 2024. In December 2024, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $500.0 of our ordinary shares for a period of two years, from January 1, 2025 through December 31, 2026. The new share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any set dollar amount or number of shares and may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time without prior notice. Under the new share repurchase program, we are authorized to conduct open-market purchases of our ordinary shares from time to time through any method or program, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans or the use of other techniques as permitted by our shareholder authorization, approved by our Board of Directors or a designated committee thereof, and subject to availability of ordinary shares, price, market conditions, alternative uses of capital, and applicable regulatory requirements, at managements discretion. We estimate capital expenditures to be approximately $255 during 2025. We also expect to incur approximately $195 of primarily cloud computing services and software license costs in 2025. These expenditures are primarily for product and content development, as well as for ongoing support of our existing business operations, and we expect to fund such expenditures primarily through cash flows from operations. Any amounts for which we are presently liable are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as Accounts payable or Accrued expenses and other current liabilities. In addition, we are engaged in various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and have taken what we believe to be adequate reserves related to the litigation and threatened claims. We maintain appropriate insurance policies, which are likely to provide some coverage for these liabilities or other losses that may arise from litigation matters. For additional information about our legal proceedings and claims, see Note 17 - Commitments and Contingencies included in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. We require and will continue to need significant cash resources to, among other things, meet our debt service requirements, fund our working capital requirements, make capital expenditures (including product and content development), and expand our business through acquisitions. Based on our forecasts, we believe that cash flow from operations, available cash on hand, borrowing capacity, and access to capital markets will be adequate to service debt, meet liquidity needs, and fund capital expenditures and other business plans for both the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the number of future acquisitions and the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts. We could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financings; however, additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us.