Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our historical financial statements and related notes included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 and the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Certain statements in this section are forward-looking statements as described in the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements of this quarterly report. The risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this quarterly report and Item 1A. Risk Factors in our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K. Overview We are a leading global provider of transformative intelligence. We support the entire innovation lifecycle, from cultivating curiosity to protecting the worlds critical intellectual property assets. Whether its providing insights to advance an industry or accelerating the delivery of a critical drug, our vision at Clarivate is to fuel the worlds greatest breakthroughs by harnessing the power of human ingenuity. We offer enriched data, insights & analytics, workflow solutions, and expert services to our customers in the Academia & Government (A&G), Intellectual Property (IP), and Life Sciences & Healthcare (LS&H) end markets, which form the basis of our reportable segment structure. Within each of our three segments, we provide the following: Enriched data. Curated, up-to-date content collections validated by skilled data scientists and domain experts with real-world experience. Insights & analytics. Predictive analytics powered by a unique combination of AI-enabled software paired with human insights, developed and interpreted by PhD level experts. Workflow solutions. Automated, flexible software tools complemented by our enriched data sets and expert analysis tailored to meet specific needs. Expert services. We are home to industry specialists, consultants, and data scientists with deep subject-matter expertise and global experience. Key Performance Indicators We regularly monitor organic revenue growth, annualized contract value, annual renewal rates, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, and Free cash flow as key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business and trends, measure performance, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, and Free cash flow are financial measures that are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP). Although we believe these measures may be useful to investors in evaluating our business, these measures are not a substitute for GAAP financial measures or disclosures. Reconciliations of our non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are provided further below. Organic revenue growth We review year-over-year organic revenue growth in our segments as a key measure of our success in addressing customer needs. We also review year-over-year organic revenue growth by transaction type to help us identify and address broad changes in product mix, and by geography to help us identify and address changes and revenue trends by region. We define the components of revenue growth as follows: Organic. Revenue generated from pricing, up-selling, securing new customers, sales of new or enhanced product offerings, and any other revenue change drivers except for changes from acquisitions, disposals, and foreign currency. Acquisitions. Revenue generated from acquired products and services from the date of acquisition to the first anniversary date of that acquisition. 21 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Disposals. Revenue generated in the comparative prior year period from product lines, services, and/or businesses divested from the date of the sale in the current period presented or included within a disposal group. Foreign Currency (FX). The difference between current revenue at current exchange rates and current revenue at the corresponding prior period exchange rates. Annualized contract value Our annualized contract value (ACV), at any point in time, represents the annualized value of all active customer subscription-based license agreements for the next 12 months, assuming those coming up for renewal during the measurement period are renewed at their current price level. We use ACV as a key indicator of the health and trajectory of our core business as well as to assist in the evaluation of underlying sales execution and customer engagement trends. This metric is particularly important to us because the majority of our revenues are generated from subscription-based license agreements. Actual subscription revenues that we recognize during any 12-month period are likely to differ from ACV at the beginning of that period, sometimes significantly, due to subsequent changes in volume (including upgrades, downgrades, new business, and cancellations) and price, acquisitions and divestitures, and changes in FX. Our organic ACV grew 1.2% compared to March 31, 2024, primarily driven by price increases. Our total ACV of $1,526.1 as of March 31, 2025 declined 3.6% compared to $1,583.3 as of March 31, 2024, primarily due to the ScholarOne divestiture in November 2024 and the wind-down of certain product groups beginning in the first quarter of 2025. Annual renewal rate Our annual renewal rate, at any point in time, represents (a) the annualized value of all active customer subscription-based license agreements renewed during the measurement period (including the value of any product downgrades), divided by (b) the annualized value of all active subscription-based license agreements that were up for renewal during the measurement period. Open renewals, which we define as active customer subscription-based license agreements that were up for renewal during the measurement period but were neither renewed nor canceled, are excluded from both the numerator and denominator of the calculation. Additionally, the impact from product downgrades upon renewal is reflected in the annual renewal calculation, but the impact from product upgrades is not, because upgrades reflect the purchase of additional products and services. The impact of upgrades, new subscriptions, and product price increases is reflected in ACV, but not in annual renewal rates. As the majority of our revenues are generated from subscription-based license agreements, we use the annual renewal rate as a key indicator of our ability to retain existing customers, evaluate the execution of our sales strategy and customer engagement trends, and to help analyze our historical results and prepare financial projections. Our annual renewal rate for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 was 94% and 93%, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin We use Adjusted EBITDA as a basis for evaluating our ongoing operating performance, and we believe it is useful for investors to understand the underlying trends of our operations. Adjusted EBITDA represents Net income (loss) before the Provision (benefit) for income taxes, Depreciation and amortization, and Interest expense, net, adjusted to exclude share-based compensation, impairments, restructuring expenses, the impact of certain non-cash fair value adjustments on financial instruments, acquisition and/or disposal-related transaction costs, unrealized foreign currency gains/losses, legal settlements, and other items that are included in Net income (loss) for the period that we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by Revenues. 22 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by any of the adjusted items, or that our projections and estimates will be realized in their entirety or at all. In addition, because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of liquidity or discretionary cash available to us to fund our cash needs, including investing in the growth of our business and meeting our obligations. For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin to Net income (loss) and Net income (loss) margin, refer to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin (non-GAAP measures) below. Free cash flow We use Free cash flow in our operational and financial decision-making and believe it is useful to investors because similar measures are frequently used by securities analysts, investors, ratings agencies, and other interested parties to measure the ability of a company to service its debt. Our presentation of Free cash flow should not be considered as a measure of liquidity or discretionary cash available to us to fund our cash needs, including investing in the growth of our business and meeting our obligations. We define Free cash flow as Net cash provided by operating activities less Capital expenditures. For further discussion related to Free cash flow, including a reconciliation to Net cash provided by operating activities, refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Flows below. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change Revenues $ 593.7 $ 621.2 (4)% Operating expenses: Cost of revenues 207.0 217.8 (5)% Selling, general and administrative costs 178.4 191.9 (7)% Depreciation and amortization 185.4 179.4 3% Restructuring and other impairments 24.7 9.5 N/M Other operating expense (income), net 19.0 17.6 8% Total operating expenses 614.5 616.2 Income (loss) from operations (20.8) 5.0 Fair value adjustment of warrants (5.2) N/M Interest expense, net 64.3 70.2 (8)% Income (loss) before income tax (85.1) (60.0) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 18.8 15.0 25% Net income (loss) (103.9) (75.0) Dividends on preferred shares 18.8 N/M Net income (loss) attributable to ordinary shares $ (103.9) $ (93.8) N/M - Represents a change approximately equal to or in excess of 100% or is not meaningful. The following factors had a significant impact on the comparability of our results of operations between the periods presented and may affect the comparability of our results of operations in future periods: In December 2024, our Board approved the wind-down of three product groups within the LS&H and A&G segments, which is expected to reduce revenues and profit by less than 10% and 5%, respectively. In November 2024, we completed the sale of our ScholarOne product group within our A&G segment. In April 2024, we completed the sale of our Valipat product group within our IP segment. 23 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Revenues The tables below present the changes in revenues by transaction type, segment, and geography, as well as the components driving the changes between periods. Revenues by transaction type Three Months Ended March 31, Change % of Change 2025 2024 $ % Acquisitions Disposals FX Organic Subscription $ 388.6 $ 403.1 $ (14.5) (3.6) % 0.2 % (2.3) % (0.9) % (0.6) % Re-occurring 105.9 102.5 3.4 3.3 % % % (2.0) % 5.3 % Recurring revenues 494.5 505.6 (11.1) (2.2) % 0.2 % (1.9) % (1.1) % 0.6 % Transactional 99.2 115.6 (16.4) (14.2) % 0.3 % (11.6) % (0.6) % (2.3) % Revenues $ 593.7 $ 621.2 $ (27.5) (4.4) % 0.2 % (3.9) % (1.0) % 0.3 % Subscription revenues decreased primarily due to the ScholarOne product group divestiture and product group wind-down within LS&H. Re-occurring revenues increased primarily due to higher IP patent renewal volumes. Transactional revenues decreased primarily due to the Valipat product group divestiture and product group wind-downs within A&G. Revenues by segment Three Months Ended March 31, Change % of Change 2025 2024 $ % Acquisitions Disposals FX Organic A&G $ 302.7 $ 317.7 $ (15.0) (4.7) % % (4.6) % (0.8) % 0.7 % IP 192.7 200.9 (8.2) (4.1) % 0.2 % (4.1) % (1.5) % 1.3 % LS&H 98.3 102.6 (4.3) (4.2) % 0.8 % (1.2) % (0.8) % (3.0) % Revenues $ 593.7 $ 621.2 $ (27.5) (4.4) % 0.2 % (3.9) % (1.0) % 0.3 % A&G segment revenues decreased, as subscription growth driven by price increases was offset by the ScholarOne product group divestiture and product group wind-downs within A&G. IP segment revenues decreased primarily due to the Valipat product group divestiture, partially offset by higher IP patent renewal volumes. LS&H segment revenues decreased primarily due to lower subscription revenues and the product group wind-down within LS&H. Revenues by geography Three Months Ended March 31, Change % of Change 2025 2024 $ % Acquisitions Disposals FX Organic Americas $ 321.1 $ 330.3 $ (9.2) (2.8) % 0.4 % (3.3) % (0.5) % 0.6 % EMEA 151.7 168.5 (16.8) (10.0) % 0.1 % (6.9) % (1.6) % (1.6) % APAC 120.9 122.4 (1.5) (1.2) % % (1.5) % (1.6) % 1.9 % Revenues $ 593.7 $ 621.2 $ (27.5) (4.4) % 0.2 % (3.9) % (1.0) % 0.3 % Americas revenues decreased primarily due to the ScholarOne divestiture, partially offset by higher contributions from A&G subscription revenues. EMEA (Europe/Middle East/Africa) revenues decreased primarily due to the Valipat and ScholarOne product group divestitures and lower LS&H transactional revenues. APAC (Asia Pacific) revenues decreased due to a stronger dollar against APAC currencies and the Valipat product group divestiture, partially offset by A&G subscription growth. Cost of revenues Cost of revenues consists of costs related to the production, servicing, and maintenance of our products and are composed primarily of related personnel costs, data center services and licensing costs, and costs to acquire or produce content including royalty fees. The decrease of 5.0% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily driven by reduced royalty fees and the Valipat product group divestiture. As a percentage of revenues, Cost of revenues was consistent with the prior year period. 24 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Selling, general and administrative costs Selling, general and administrative costs (SG&A) include nearly all business costs not directly attributable to the production, servicing, and maintenance of our products and are composed primarily of personnel costs, third-party professional services fees, facility costs like rent and utilities, technology costs associated with our corporate infrastructure, and transaction expenses associated with acquisitions, divestitures, and capital market activities including advisory, legal, and other professional and consulting costs. The decrease of 7.0% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily driven by cost management and reductions in share-based compensation expense. As a percentage of revenues, SG&A costs decreased by 0.9% from the prior year period. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation expense relates to our fixed assets, including computer hardware, leasehold improvements, and furniture and fixtures. Amortization expense relates to our definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, technology and content, internally generated computer software, and trade names. The increase of 3.3% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily driven by increased investment in internally developed software and content assets. Restructuring and other impairments Restructuring and other impairment expense includes costs associated with certain involuntary termination benefits, contract terminations, and other exit or disposal activities. First quarter 2025 charges were associated with the Value Creation Plan, which began in the fourth quarter of 2024 and is expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2025. First quarter 2024 charges related to the Segment Optimization Program, which was substantively completed in 2024. For further information regarding each of our restructuring initiatives and impairment impacts, see Note 8 - Restructuring and Other Impairments included in Part I, Item 1 of this quarterly report. Other operating expense (income), net The increased expense of $1.4 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024 was driven by the net impact of realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, with the largest impacts derived from transactions denominated in GBP, offset by a $15.8 loss on divestiture in the prior year period. For further information, see Note 9 - Other Operating Expense (Income), Net included in Part I, Item 1 of this quarterly report. Interest expense, net The decrease of 8.4% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024 was driven by lower outstanding borrowings on our new term loan facility. Provision (benefit) for income taxes The income tax provision of $18.8 and $15.0 for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, was primarily due to the mix of jurisdictions in which pre-tax profits and losses were recognized. The current quarter effective tax rate may not be indicative of our effective tax rates for future periods. In December 2021, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) issued model rules for a new global minimum tax framework under its Pillar Two initiative, and various governments around the world have issued, or have announced that they plan to issue, legislation consistent with the OECD model rules. We are within the scope of the OECD Pillar Two model rules. During the third quarter of 2023, the United Kingdom enacted legislation consistent with the OECD model rules, which became effective January 1, 2024. Based on our most recent tax filings, country-by-country reporting, and financial information available, we believe that most of the jurisdictions in which we operate will meet the requirements for transitional safe harbor relief. Therefore, we do not expect the global minimum tax to have a material impact in 2025. However, future legislation or changes in our financial results could materially increase our global minimum tax expense. 25 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin (non-GAAP measures) The following table presents our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, and reconciles these non-GAAP measures to our Net income (loss) and Net income (loss) margin for the same periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net income (loss) $ (103.9) $ (75.0) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 18.8 15.0 Depreciation and amortization 185.4 179.4 Interest expense, net 64.3 70.2 Share-based compensation expense 11.1 15.4 Restructuring and other impairments 24.7 9.5 Fair value adjustment of warrants (5.2) Transaction related costs 6.3 4.4 Other(1) 26.5 22.6 Adjusted EBITDA $ 233.2 $ 236.3 Net income (loss) margin (17.5)% (12.1)% Adjusted EBITDA margin 39.3% 38.0% (1) Includes the net impact of foreign exchange gains and losses related to the remeasurement of balances and other items that do not reflect our ongoing operating performance. The three months ended March 31, 2024 also includes a $15.8 loss on the divestiture described in Note 9 - Other Operating Expense (Income), Net. Liquidity and Capital Resources We finance our operations primarily through cash generated by operating activities and through borrowing activities. As of March 31, 2025, we had $354.0 of cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash of $11.4) and $692.8 of available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility. Cash Flows We have historically generated significant cash flows from our operating activities. Our subscription-based revenue model provides a steady and predictable source of revenue and cash flow for us, as we typically receive payments from our customers at the start of the subscription period (usually 12 months) and recognize revenue ratably throughout that period. Our high customer renewal rate, stable margins, and efforts to improve operating efficiencies and working capital management also contribute to our ability to generate solid operating cash flows. The following table presents our cash flows by activity for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 171.2 $ 176.2 $ (5.0) (3) % Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities $ (60.9) $ (64.4) $ 3.5 (5) % Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities $ (56.6) $ (95.2) $ 38.6 (41) % The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in restructuring costs. The decrease in net cash used for investing activities was due to lower capital spending. The decrease in net cash used for financing activities was primarily due to the prior year period payments towards our term loans, refinancing fees, and MCPS dividends, partially offset by the $50.0 used in the current year period to repurchase our ordinary shares. 26 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Free cash flow (non-GAAP measure) The following table reconciles our non-GAAP Free cash flow measure to Net cash provided by operating activities for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 171.2 $ 176.2 $ (5.0) (3) % Capital expenditures (60.9) (64.4) 3.5 (5) % Free cash flow $ 110.3 $ 111.8 $ (1.5) (1) % Free cash flow decreased minimally, driven by the change in net cash provided by operating activities described above, partially offset by a slight reduction in cash used for capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures in both periods presented consisted primarily of capitalized labor, contract services, and other costs associated with product and content development. Borrowings As of March 31, 2025, we had $4,541.8 of outstanding borrowings under our notes and credit facilities. We incurred $64.3 and $70.2 of interest expense associated with our debt obligations during the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Our contingent liabilities consist primarily of letters of credit and performance bonds and other similar obligations in the ordinary course of business. For further discussion related to our outstanding borrowings, see Note 6 - Debt included in Part I, Item 1 of this quarterly report. Commitments and Contingencies In addition to the scheduled future debt repayments that we will need to make, we also have commitments and plans related to our share repurchase program, capital expenditures, and other commitments in the ordinary course of business, primarily relating to cloud computing services and content and software license costs. Any amounts for which we are currently liable are reflected in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as Accounts payable or Accrued expenses and other current liabilities. As of March 31, 2025, we had $450.0 of availability remaining under our share repurchase program. The share repurchase authorization is valid through December 31, 2026. The share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any set dollar amount or number of shares and may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time without prior notice. Under the share repurchase program, we are authorized to conduct open-market purchases of our ordinary shares from time to time through any method or program, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans or the use of other techniques as permitted by our shareholder authorization, approved by our Board of Directors or a designated committee thereof, and subject to availability of ordinary shares, price, market conditions, alternative uses of capital, and applicable regulatory requirements, at managements discretion. In addition, we are engaged in various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and have taken what we believe to be adequate reserves related to the litigation and threatened claims. We maintain appropriate insurance policies in place, which are likely to provide some coverage for these liabilities or other losses that may arise from litigation matters. For additional information about our legal proceedings and claims, see Note 13 - Commitments and Contingencies included in Part I, Item 1 of this quarterly report. We require and will continue to need significant cash resources to, among other things, meet our debt service requirements, fund our working capital requirements, make capital expenditures (including product and content development), and expand our business through acquisitions. Based on our forecasts, we believe that cash flow from operations, available cash on hand, borrowing capacity, and access to capital markets will be adequate to service debt, meet liquidity needs, and fund capital expenditures and other business plans for both the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the number of future acquisitions and the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts. We could be required, or could elect, to seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financings; however, additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us. 27 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions or as otherwise noted) Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Assumptions There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies, estimates, and assumptions from those reported under Part I, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Assumptions in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements For recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 - Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in Part I, Item 1 of this quarterly report.