Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Key Performance Indicators - Annualized Contract Value. (2) For a reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures to the corresponding most closely related measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Certain Non-GAAP Measures Operational Improvement Initiatives We have implemented several initiatives to drive our growth strategy through continued operational optimization. To grow, we will continue to evolve from a data-centric solutions provider to an insights-driven strategic partner for our customers. Some examples include: achieving scale across core markets by bringing together our assets, enabling segment specific use cases across the innovation cycle. Our shared content, technology and commercial channels will enable this throughout our core markets, powering innovation and funding to research, development and commercialization; accelerating the capture of whitespace market opportunities through an emphasis on expanding our serviceable addressable market especially in high performing areas of the business; replacing our legacy product-aligned go-to market structure with a customer-centric go-to-market model; focusing on the delivery of integrated solution sets that address the needs of multiple customer personas; enhancing our products and services by developing solutions that will deliver transformative intelligence to our customers addressing use cases across the innovation life cycle while leveraging our best-in-class data assets; creating essential workflow platforms that embed our solutions within; expanding upon our current position as an expert in core capabilities to a value-add services partner providing strategic guidance and deep domain expertise. We will continue to realize the benefits of our cost-saving and margin improvement initiatives designed to generate substantial incremental cash flow. Some examples include: 9 Table of Contents decreasing costs by simplifying organizational structures and rationalizing general and administrative functions to enhance a customer-centric focus; using artificial intelligence and the latest technologies to reduce costs and increase efficiencies for content sourcing and curation; moving work performed by contractors in-house to best-cost geographic locations, particularly India, where we have significant scale that can be leveraged; achieving headcount productivity benchmarks and operational efficiency metrics based on alignment with quantified sector leader benchmarks; expanding existing operations in best-cost geographic locations, aligning with business objectives; and divesting non-core assets. Revenues Growth Initiatives We believe a significant opportunity exists for us to accelerate revenues growth by increasing the value of our products and services, developing new products, cross-selling certain products and optimizing sales force productivity. Actions to achieve such revenues growth are expected to include: developing new value-added products and services; delivering an enhanced customer experience through ongoing modernization to our products user interface and user experience; offering additional analytics that enhance existing products and services; moving up the value chain by providing our customers with predictive and prescriptive analytics, allowing for stronger growth and higher retention rates; expanding our footprint with new and existing customers, with significant opportunity for growth in the Asia Pacific and emerging markets; broadening our consulting capabilities, in particular in the A&G and LS&H segments, where there is considerable opportunity for us to deliver high value consulting services to drive significant revenue growth; optimizing product pricing and packaging based on customer needs; increasing sales force focus on large accounts; expanding our inside sales capability to improve account coverage; and restructuring our incentive plans to drive new business, as well as cross-selling among similar products and overlapping buying centers. The above actions are part of an overarching effort to improve retention rates and new business growth rates to best-in-class levels across our portfolio. Pursue Acquisition Opportunities Given the fragmented nature of the broader information services industry, we track and, where appropriate, will continue to pursue opportunities across our product lines. From 2017 through 2021, we completed nine small add-on acquisitions and three significant acquisitions to augment our existing portfolio of assets and provide additional datasets and services for our customers. Our completed acquisitions include Publons, Kopernio, Decision Resources Group, Bioinfogate, ProQuest, and Patient Connect within the A&G and LS&H segments and TrademarkVision, SequenceBase, Darts-ip, CPA Global, Beijing IncoPat and Hanlim in the IP segment. We also acquired the assets of CustomersFirst Now, which was accounted for as an asset acquisition. Certain of these acquisitions are fully integrated into our platform, while others continue to be integrated, and we believe they have already provided additional value to our customers. Additionally, we divested lower margin, non-core business and products lines such as MarkMonitor Domain Management and Techstreet. During the next several years we anticipate evaluating additional acquisition opportunities to supplement our existing platform and enable us to enter new markets. Our focus is on disciplined and accretive investments that leverage our core strengths and enhance our current product, market, geographic and customer strategies. We believe that our scale and status as a global information services leader uniquely positions us to create value through additional acquisitions. 10 Table of Contents Positive Sector Dynamics Support Our Trajectory We operate in the global information and analytics sector, which is experiencing robust growth due to many factors. Data and analytics have become critical inputs into broader corporate decision-making in todays marketplace, and companies and institutions are seeking services like ours to enhance the predictive nature of their analysis. In addition to creating greater demand for our services, rapid innovation within our customers businesses has created new use cases for our products and services. We have a significant addressable opportunity of over $100 billion which represents the total addressable market across our segments that have a need for data and analytical services. Customers of data and analytics products continue to approach complex business decisions in new ways. We believe that these customers are placing greater emphasis and value on the ability to embed predictive and prescriptive analytics into their decision-making processes. These customers are using smart data to anticipate what will happen in the future, as opposed to using historical data to study what has happened in the past. As such, we are investing in these critical, forward-facing products and solutions. We believe offering these types of products will increase the value customers place on our products, allow for stronger growth and open new addressable markets, as illustrated below. Significant Move Up the Value Chain with Smart Data Offerings Our Competitive Strengths Leading Market Positions in Attractive and Growing Global Markets We offer a collection of high-quality, market-leading information and insights products and solutions serving the Academia & Government, Life Sciences & Healthcare, and Intellectual Property customer segments. Through our products and services, we address the large and growing demand from corporations, government agencies, universities, researchers, libraries, law firms and other professional services organizations worldwide for comprehensive, industry-specific information and analytical tools to facilitate the discovery, development, protection, commercialization and measurement of scientific research, inventions and brands. We believe that the outlook for growth in each of our product groups is compelling because of customer demand for curated high-quality data, underpinned by favorable end-market trends, such as rising global R&D spending, growing demand for information services in emerging markets, the acceleration of e-commerce and the increasing number of patent and trademark applications. 11 Table of Contents A Trusted Partner Delivering Highly Curated Information Embedded Within Customer Workflows We believe the substantial increase in unstructured data over the last decade has increased the importance of our proprietary, curated databases to our customers. This trend has resulted in a critical need for unstructured data to be meaningfully filtered, analyzed and curated into relevant information that facilitates key operational and strategic decisions made by businesses, academic institutions and governments worldwide. Our suite of branded information and insights solutions provides access to content that has been collected, curated and standardized over decades, making our products and services highly valued and increasingly important for our customers. Our content curation and editorial teams include approximately 1,800 employees who clean, analyze and classify unstructured data to ensure high-quality content and an enhanced user experience. We believe our solutions and commitment to excellence provide us with a significant advantage in both retaining existing and attracting new customers. Attractive Business Model with Strong Free Cash Flow Profile For the year ended December 31, 2022, approximately 61% and 17% of revenues were generated through annual or multi-year subscription agreements and re-occurring transactional agreements, respectively. In addition, we have been able to achieve annual revenues renewal rates in excess of 90% over the past three years. We believe our business has strong and attractive free cash flow characteristics due to our highly visible and recurring subscription revenues stream, attractive Adjusted EBITDA margins, low capital expenditure requirements and favorable net working capital characteristics. Anticipated revenue growth, margin improvement and effective working capital management are expected to result in strong free cash flow generation. We believe this will create capacity to invest further into the business so that we can grow and maximize shareholder returns. Diversified Product Lines with Longstanding Customer Relationships We believe that the diversified nature of our product lines enhances the stability of our entire platform as we are not dependent on any one end-market, product, service or customer. We serve a large, diverse and global customer base, and as of December 31, 2022, we have served over 50,000 customers in approximately 180 countries, including the top 30 pharmaceutical companies. Our 10 largest customers represented only 7% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022. We believe the strong value proposition offered by our content, combined with the integration of our products and services into our customers daily workflows and decision-making processes, leads to substantial customer loyalty. Our relationships with our top 50 customers by revenues have an average lifespan of over 15 years. Our diverse global footprint is highlighted by the distribution of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022, by geography: Americas (55%), Europe/Middle East/Africa (26%), and Asia Pacific (19%). Resilience Through Economic Cycles We believe our business is resilient across economic cycles because our products and services are an integral part of our customers decision-making processes. We believe our high annual renewal rates and multi-year agreements also help to maintain this resiliency. During the COVID pandemic, certain of our key products realized year-over-year revenue increases and have been able to maintain annual renewal rates in excess of 90%. In addition, our diverse global footprint reduces our exposure to national and regional economic downturns. Our performance is largely due to the sectors we serve and the deep integration of our products with our customers workflows, which provides for a resilient business model even during an economic downturn. Background and History Clarivate Plc was registered on January 7, 2019, and is organized under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands. Our registered office is located at 4th Floor, St Pauls Gate, 22-24 New Street, St. Helier, Jersey JE1 4TR. Our principal business offices are located at 70 St. Mary Axe, London EC3A 8BE, United Kingdom, where our main telephone number is +44 207 4334000. We maintain a website at www.clarivate.com. In addition, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers (including Clarivate) that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Our predecessors date back to the acquisition of two industry-leading information services businesses: Derwent World Patents Index (DWPI) and Institute for Scientific Information (ISI). DWPI was founded in 1951 by Monte Hyams who 12 Table of Contents first began abstracting and publishing British patents on a weekly basis. This platform was then launched as the first online patent search tool in 1974. ISI was founded in 1957 by Dr. Eugene Garfield as a series of databases which laid the foundation for modern day bibliometrics and the influential Journal Impact Factor indicator. Thomson Reuters acquired DWPI in 1984 and ISI in 1992; it made further investments in complementary businesses centered on life science research and domain management. Since Thomson Reuters acquired DWPI and ISI, the business now known as Clarivate has emerged as a leading global information and analytics company serving the scientific research, intellectual property and life sciences end-markets. Through product development, investment and acquisitions, we have developed a full suite of solutions providing transformative intelligence that connect enriched data, insights, analytics and workflows, infused with deep domain expertise across the spectrum of knowledge, research and innovation. During the majority of its time under prior ownership, the Company operated as a set of non-core, separate divisions until Thomson Reuters decided in 2015 to divest them. This decision led to two key transformative events. The first transformative event occurred in October 2016, when private equity firms acquired subsidiaries and assets comprising the intellectual property and science business of Thomson Reuters and formed Clarivate. The second transformative event occurred in January 2019, when Churchill Capital Corp, a special purpose acquisition company, announced that it would combine with Clarivate in a transaction completed in May 2019. Following the merger, the ordinary shares of Clarivate began trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and NYSE American. Clarivate shares now trade on the NYSE under the symbol CLVT. Recent Developments Strategic Acquisitions Acquisition of ProQuest On December 1, 2021, we acquired 100% of ProQuest, a leading global software, data and analytics provider to academic, research and national institutions, and its subsidiaries from Cambridge Information Group (CIG), Atairos and certain other equity holders (collectively, the Seller Group). The aggregate consideration in connection with the closing of the ProQuest acquisition was $5,002.3, net of $52.5 cash acquired. The aggregate consideration was composed of (i) $1,094.9 from the issuance of up to 46.9 million ordinary shares to the Seller Group and (ii) approximately $3,959.9 in cash, including approximately $917.5 to fund the repayment of ProQuest debt. We funded the cash purchase price through a combination of cash on hand, new debt financing in the form of the Senior Unsecured Notes and the Senior Secured Notes (see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and equity financing in the form of the June 2021 Ordinary Share Offering and the 5.25% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares Offering (see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Acquisition of CPA Global On October 1, 2020, we acquired 100% of the assets, liabilities and equity interests of CPA Global, a global leader in intellectual property software and tech-enabled services. Clarivate acquired all of the outstanding shares of CPA Global in a cash and stock transaction. The aggregate consideration in connection with the closing of the CPA Global acquisition was $8,540.9, net of $102.7 cash acquired, including an equity hold back consideration of $46.5, which was issued in January 2021. The aggregate consideration was composed of (i) $6,565.5 from the issuance of up to 218.2 million ordinary shares to Redtop Holdings Limited, a portfolio company of Leonard Green & Partners, L.P., representing approximately 35% pro forma fully diluted ownership of Clarivate and (ii) approximately $2,078.1 in cash to fund the repayment of CPA Global's parent company outstanding debt of $2,055.8 and related interest swap termination fee of $22.3. Of the 218.3 million ordinary shares issuable in the acquisition, Clarivate issued 210.4 million ordinary shares as of October 1, 2020. There were 6.3 million shares that were issued to Leonard Green & Partners, L.P. that were returned to Clarivate to fund an Employee Benefit Trust established for the CPA Global Phantom Equity Plan. Accordingly, these shares were excluded from purchase price consideration. In conjunction with the closing of the transaction, the Company incurred an incremental $1,600.0 of term loans under our term loan facility and used the net proceeds from such borrowings, together with cash on hand, to fund the transaction. 13 Table of Contents Acquisition of Decision Resources Group On February 28, 2020, we acquired 100% of the assets, liabilities and equity interests of Decision Resources Group ("DRG"), a premier provider of high-value data, analytics and insights products and services to the healthcare industry, from Piramal Enterprises Limited ("PEL"), which is a part of global business conglomerate Piramal Group. The acquisition helps us expand our core businesses and provides us with the potential to grow in the LS&H segment. The aggregate consideration paid in connection with the closing of the DRG acquisition was $965.0, composed of $900.0 of base cash plus $6.1 of adjusted closing cash paid on the closing date and up to 2.9 million of the Company's ordinary shares valued at $58.9 on the closing date. The contingent stock consideration was revalued at each period end until its issuance to PEL in March 2021 for a total of $61.6. Dispositions Disposition of MarkMonitor Domain Management On October 31, 2022, the Company completed the sale of the MarkMonitor Domain Management business within the IP segment to Newfold Digital, a leading web presence solutions provider, for a total purchase price of $296.1. A gain of $278.5 was recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations within Other operating (income) expense, net during the year ended December 31, 2022. Disposition of Techstreet On November 6, 2020, the Company completed the sale of certain assets and liabilities of non-core assets and liabilities within the IP segment for a total purchase price of $42.8. A gain of $28.1 was recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations during the year ended December 31, 2020. Customers We serve a large, diverse and global customer base and, as of December 31, 2022, we have served over 50,000 customers in approximately 180 countries. Our customers either use our databases on an exclusive basis or on a dual-sourced basis and our 10 largest customers represented only 7%, 9% and 6% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Competitive Environment We believe the principal competitive factors in our business include the quality of content embedded in our databases and those of our competitors, customers perception of our products relative to the value that they deliver, user interface of the products, and the quality and breadth of our overall offerings. We believe we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. We believe no single competitor currently offers the same scope of services and market coverage we provide, nor do we provide the same scope of services and market coverage as our competitors. The breadth of markets we serve exposes us to a broad range of competitors as described below. Our primary competitors differ by product line and include the following companies and product offerings: Abstracting and Indexing Database Market : Elsevier (Scopus, SciVal), and Digital Science (Dimensions); Patent Protection Market : LexisNexis (TotalPatent), Minesoft (PatBase) and Questel (Orbit); Life Sciences Regulatory and Competitive Intelligence Market : Norstella (Evaluate, Citeline, MMIT, Panalgo, The Dedham Group), Global Data (Global Data Pharmaceuticals), Informa (BioMedTracker, Pharmaprojects, Trialtrove, Sitetrove), IQVIA (Tarius) and Qiagen (Qiagen Services); Trademark Protection Market : Corsearch (Contour, Corsearch Screening, search and watch services), and Markify (ComprehensiveSearch, ProSearch and trademark and domain watch); and Academic and Government Market : Content Aggregation: EBSCO, Gale, Wolters Kluwer (Ovid); Integrated Library Systems: EBSCO (FOLIO), OCLC, SirsiDynix Sources of Data 14 Table of Contents The data supporting our products and services is sourced principally through three different types of arrangements. First, we source data generally at little or no cost from public sources, including federal, state and local governments. Second, we purchase data from third-party data aggregators under contracts that reflect prevailing market pricing for the data elements purchased. Third, we pay royalties for data licensed to us from third-party data aggregators under licensing arrangements that reflect prevailing market pricing for the data elements licensed. Our information technology systems are fundamental to our success. They are used for the storage, processing, access and delivery of the data which forms the foundation of our business and the development and delivery of our solutions provided to our customers. We generally own or have secured ongoing rights to use for the purposes of our business all the customer-facing applications which are material to our operations. We are continually transforming our content, products, services and company to better meet our customers needs. We also are focused on securing our customer data and global systems as we implement and enhance our security programs. Intellectual Property As of December 31, 2022, we owned approximately 2,003 registered trademarks, 102 trademark applications, 4,061 domain names, 169 granted patents and 53 patent applications. We also own certain proprietary software. In addition, we are licensed to use certain third-party software, and obtain significant content and data through third-party licensing arrangements with content providers. We consider our trademarks, service marks, databases, software and other IP to be proprietary, and we rely on a combination of statutory (e.g., copyright, trademark, trade secret and patent), contractual and technical safeguards to protect our IP rights. We believe that the IP we own and license is sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted. Our agreements with our customers and business partners place certain restrictions on the use of our IP. As a general practice, employees, contractors and other parties with access to our proprietary information sign agreements that prohibit the unauthorized use or disclosure of our IP and confidential information. New Product Development We believe that innovation is essential to our success and is one of our primary bases of competition. We believe we are uniquely positioned to help shape how professionals find, evaluate, interact with, consume and act upon information. We are focused on developing capabilities to improve our products user interfaces, analytical tools, searching algorithms and content curation processes. Our current focus includes building out a technology platform focused on search technologies, big data and analytics, machine learning, social computing and natural language technologies. This will enable more rapid product development as we shift our investment focus toward new products rather than maintenance of legacy technology. We also add to our business line offerings through acquisitions. We have completed three significant acquisitions in 2021 and 2020 including ProQuest and DRG, expanding our A&G and LS&H product offerings, and CPA Global, broadening our IP product offerings. During the past five years, we have also completed small add-on acquisitions to augment our existing portfolio of assets and provide additional datasets and services for our customers. Given the fragmented nature of the broader information services industry, we track and, where appropriate, have pursued opportunities across our product groups. This includes, for example, Connect from CPA Global. These acquisitions are fully integrated into our platform, and we believe they have already provided additional value to our customers. When we find it advantageous, we augment our proprietary data sources and systems by forming alliances with other leading information providers and technology companies and integrating their product offerings into our offerings. This approach gives our customers the opportunity to obtain the information they need from a single source and more easily integrate the information into their workflows. Enforcement of Civil Liabilities U.S. laws do not necessarily extend either to us or our officers or directors. We are incorporated under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands. Some of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. Substantially all of our assets and the assets of our directors and officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process on either us or our officers and directors within the United States, or to enforce against these 15 Table of Contents persons or us, either inside or outside the United States, a judgment obtained in a U.S. court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities or other laws of the United States or any U.S. state. We have appointed Vistra USA, LLC, as our agent to receive service of process with respect to any action brought against us in the United States under the federal securities laws of the United States or of the laws of any state of the United States. A judgment of a U.S. court is not directly enforceable in Jersey, but constitutes a cause of action which may be enforced by Jersey courts provided that: the applicable U.S. courts had jurisdiction over the case, as recognized under Jersey law; the judgment is given on the merits and is final, conclusive and non-appealable; the judgment relates to the payment of a sum of money, not being taxes, fines or similar governmental penalties; the defendant is not immune under the principles of public international law; the same matters at issue in the case were not previously the subject of a judgment or disposition in a separate court; the judgment was not obtained by fraud; and the recognition and enforcement of the judgment is not contrary to public policy in Jersey. Jersey courts award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the plaintiff. Although punitive damages are generally unknown to the Jersey legal system, there is no prohibition on them either by statute or customary law. Whether a particular judgment may be deemed contrary to Jersey public policy depends on the facts of each case, though judgments found to be exorbitant, unconscionable, or excessive will generally be deemed as contrary to public policy. Moreover, certain defendants may qualify for protection under Protection of Trading Interests Act 1980, an act of the UK extended to Jersey by the Protection of Trading Interests Act 1980 (Jersey) Order, 1983. This Act provides that a qualifying defendant is not liable for multiple damages, in excess of that required for actual compensation. A qualifying defendant for these purposes is a citizen of the UK and its Colonies (as defined in the Act), a corporation or other limited liability entity organized under the laws of the UK, Jersey or other territory for whose international relations the UK is responsible or a person conducting business in Jersey. Jersey courts cannot enter into the merits of the foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign courts. It is doubtful that an original action based on U.S. federal or state securities laws could be brought before Jersey courts. In addition, a plaintiff who is not resident in Jersey may be required to provide a security bond in advance to cover the potential of the expected costs of any case initiated in Jersey. In addition, Clarivate has been further advised by our legal counsel in Jersey that it is uncertain as to whether the courts of Jersey would entertain original actions or enforce judgments from U.S. courts against us or our officers and directors which originated from actions alleging civil liability under U.S. federal or state securities laws. Marketing, Sales and Customer Support We primarily sell our products and services directly to our customers, although some of our products and services are sold through partners. Focusing some of our sales and marketing efforts on digital sales and marketing has allowed us to broaden our range of customers and reduce sales and marketing costs. We annually develop sales, distribution and marketing strategies on a product-by-product and service-by-service basis. We leverage customer data, business and market intelligence, and competitive profiling to retain customers and cross-sell products and services, while also working to promote unified brand recognition across all our products and services. Our sales teams participate in both service and sales activities. They provide direct support, interacting frequently with assigned customers to assure a positive experience using our products and services. Sales representatives primarily seek out new sales opportunities, including existing customer retention and upsell, and work with the various sales teams to coordinate sales activity and provide the best solutions for our customers. A portion of sales representative compensation is tied to revenues retention. We believe our sales teams' product knowledge and local presence differentiate us from our competition. In addition, we employ product specialists who are subject-matter experts and work with sales representative's on specific opportunities for their assigned products. Both sales representatives and product specialists have responsibility for identifying new sales opportunities. A team approach and a common customer relationship management system allow for 16 Table of Contents effective coordination between the two groups. Human Capital As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately 11,600 full-time employees and approximately 200 part-time employees supporting our business operations, located in 42 countries around the world. Of our total employees, approximately 3,100 are located in the Americas, 5,500 in APAC and 3,200 in EMEA. The below chart summarizes the percentage of our employees by geographic area: None of our employees in the United States are represented by unions; however, customary representation by unions and works councils applies for certain of our non-U.S. employees. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good and have not experienced interruptions to operations due to labor disagreements. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging ("DEIB") We have taken our commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging to a whole new level, especially after witnessing instances of civil unrest and outcries for real change. We believe that our colleagues are our most important competitive advantage and see people coming together from different cultures and backgrounds, with different life experiences, as a key driver of innovation. We know that colleagues who feel engaged and included will be the most proactive and productive. Our goal is to weave these principles into the fabric of our culture to become a recognized global leader and employer of choice. Throughout our organization and across all our regions, we are accelerating innovation and action in support of a more diverse and inclusive workforce. As a company, we are magnifying our voice, our platform and our resources to address injustice and inequity wherever it occurs. In 2020, we signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion in the workplace. As part of our commitment to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, we supported two colleagues to represent Clarivate as Racial Equity Fellows, and continue to do so in 2022. We are also signatories to the UN Womens Empowerment Principles, and the UN Global Compact and in 2021, proudly joined the coalition of Scientific publishing organizations and national laboratories, partnering on transgender-inclusive name-change process for published papers. Name changes allow researchers of all genders to own their academic work. We are taking positive actions to further diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging led by the Clarivate Diversity Council. Our five-pillar framework of Leadership, Culture, Workplace practices, Business integration and Community, includes key elements such as Board level accountability through the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee, Board Diversity Policy, advancing people analytics and metrics insights, setting targets for diverse hiring in every part of our organization, non-bias training and education, engaging in difficult conversations around the role of race in our company and society, strategic structure and support for colleague engagement through Colleague Resource Groups and supporting diversity throughout our supply chain and in our communities. The Company's Colleague Resource Groups include: SPECTRUM , Clarivates LGBTQ+ and Allies resource group; Women @ Clarivate , support of advancing the Womens Empowerment Principles; 17 Table of Contents Vibrant , Clarivates colleague resource group focused on racial & ethnic diversity, inclusion and equity; Military Veterans at Clarivate , supporting members with military backgrounds, including military family members and supporters; Limitless , supporting colleagues and/or relatives, with functional diversity, or disabilities; Clarivate Volunteer Network , to explore and promote the benefits of volunteering and reach our Sustainability goals; and Element , the Environment and Climate Change colleague resource group to raise awareness of the environment and our impact on it and to promote activities and behaviors to address our environmental impact. Learning and Development Programs Our learning and development ("L&D") philosophy is about bringing our organizational beliefs and values to life to map our actions and behaviors to our words. Its about empowering each colleague to be their best self every day and providing a wide range of skills development opportunities applicable now and for the future. Some guiding principles include: We develop our L&D plans and programs in alignment with our key business functions to help further our mutual success and avoid creating silos; Our L&D commitments are performance related and designed to improve corporate, functional, team and individual accountability; We strongly believe that every colleague across our entire business should be provided equal opportunities to learn, develop and grow; We believe in empowering individual colleagues with their own L&D milestones. With ownership comes commitment, responsibility and greater chances of success for ongoing learning and development; and We continuously focus on outcomes and business impact when it comes to evaluating L&D programs. Retention and Engagement The Company fosters a values-led culture that begins with our Purpose and Vision that human ingenuity can transform the world, and we will improve the way the world creates, protects and advances innovation. With a continuous focus on three company Values (aim for greatness, value every voice and own your actions) along with transparent communication and a wide variety of colleague support programs, our colleague engagement survey remained consistent with prior year with a score of 74 (out of 100) in October 2022. We provide a variety of benefits to promote retention and growth of our employees. We strive to offer equitable pay and competitive salaries and wages. In addition, we have historically provided an annual broad-based equity grant to our employees to promote a sense of company pride and ownership. We offer a comprehensive benefits package that gives a robust collection of rewards and benefits, including healthcare and insurance benefits, and retirement savings plans. We also host a number of affinity groups for our employees. We have an online academy that fosters a learning culture, leveraging the knowledge and expertise of our people. Workplace Health and Safety We have invested in a robust, proven health and well-being strategy to foster a healthier, happier and more productive workforce. Were committed to providing colleagues with meaningful resources to support their personal, family and community needs using a holistic approach that focuses on four key pillars of well-being: Physical, Financial, Social and Emotional. As part of a new level of health and wellness engagement, we: Launched Be Well, our new, online well-being platform that enables colleagues to take a health assessment, track daily health habits, participate in health and fitness challenges, sync mobile and fitness devices and more - all while earning rewards along their personalized well-being journey; Leverage data insights from benefits utilization reports, real-time analytics, colleague feedback and more to continuously enhance our engagement and impact; Provide access to science-based tools and technologies to help colleagues better navigate the digital workplace while balancing needs at home; and Leverage proven techniques to enhance mindfulness, stress management, emotional intelligence, resilience, quality 18 Table of Contents of sleep, performance and more. Sustainability and Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Clarivate recognized that sustainability and ESG are critical to the Companys current and future success and launched our formal ESG commitment in 2020. In 2021, we issued our inaugural sustainability report, landing in the 76 percentile (51/100 points) in the S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA). In 2022 Clarivate became the most improved organization under S&P Global CSA Professional Services industry (PRO) for the period 2020-2022 by improving the score from 11/100 to 56/100 points (90th percentile). We approach sustainability holistically across all ESG dimensions, in support of United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and aligned with both the United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and SASB. It remains at the center of our virtuous circle, and we aspire to make it part of everything we do. ESG pillars of Sustainability@Clarivate We are progressing at a rapid pace since launching our ESG journey, with ambitious goals to be listed on the DJSI and become Net-zero for all known and measurable emissions before the end of 2040. As we work to advance a more sustainable world, we have begun mapping all we do to the UN Sustainable Development Goals ("SDG"), with a focus on mapping our customer impact to SDGs 3, 4, 9, and 12. Internally, we are focused on impacting responsible business practices that address SDGs 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 16 and 17. Environment : We continue to work to minimize our environmental impacts worldwide. We launched our global e-waste program and published environmental metrics for 75%+ of facilities in 2022 enabling us to report into the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for the second time. We have been evaluating our supply chain against ESG performance for the last two years and have improved year over year. We are making great strides in our Climate Transition planning and have enhanced our ability to capture, track, and minimize our carbon footprint -- in alignment with SDG 13. In addition, we committed to set Science-Based Targets by the end of 2024 and signed as supporters to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Social : Our social efforts are primarily focused on our colleagues and the communities in which we operate around the world. In our 2021 sustainability report, we highlighted many human capital metrics for the first time. We continue to build capabilities to enhance our management of people metrics to advance our Inclusion and Diversity efforts and support reducing inequalities to align with SDG 10. We participated for the second time in the Corporate Equality Index which helps us focus on improvement and inform our Inclusion and Diversity strategy. We have seven global colleague resource groups (CRGs) with over 50 local chapters. We have 30 local sustainability teams who work with our Site Leaders programs to organize colleague events and community actions, delivering measurable impact. In 2022, we surpassed our volunteering goal, delivering over 23,000 hours of volunteering to help communities around the world. In addition, we launched a global volunteer recognition program to continue to build meaningful strategic partnerships that strengthen our engagement opportunities, drive community impact and advance all 17 SDGs. Governance : We are committed to maintaining the highest level of trust, transparency and ethics in all we do, and are proud participants in the UN Global Compact, the UN SDG and Climate Ambition programs. Our Board of Directors continues to play an essential role providing oversight and guidance as ESG issues are prioritized. In 2021, Sustainability officially became part of the Board Committee. In addition, we published a Board Diversity statement, a UN Global Compact Communication on Progress and an updated Modern Slavery statement. The company achieved ISO 27001 in recognition of the critical importance of information security. Sustainability is at the heart of our virtuous circle at Clarivate. We are committed to continuous advancement and embedding it into our culture and long-term corporate strategy. 19 Table of Contents Seasonality Our cash flows from operations are generated primarily from payments from our subscription customers and the standard term of a subscription is typically 12 months. When a customer enters into a new subscription agreement, or submits a notice to renew their subscription, we typically invoice for the full amount of the subscription period, record the balance to deferred revenues and ratably recognize the deferral throughout the subscription period. As a result, we experience cash flow seasonality throughout the year. Regulatory Environment Certain of our product lines provide authorized customers with products and services such as access to public records. Our product lines that provide such products and services are subject to applicable privacy and consumer information laws and regulations, including U.S. federal and state and European Union (EU) and member state regulation. Our compliance obligations vary from regulator to regulator, and may include, among other things, strict data security programs, submissions of regulatory reports, providing consumers with certain notices and correcting inaccuracies in applicable reports. Many of these laws and regulations are complex, and their application to us, our customers or the specific services and relationships we have with our customers are not always clear. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or any failure to comply, could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and otherwise negatively affect our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for more information about the impact of government regulations on our company. Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described herein before making a decision to invest in our ordinary shares. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could adversely impact our business. 20 Table of Contents Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our customers is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations to collect, store and use public records, IP and sensitive data. We expend significant resources to develop and secure our systems, but they may be subject to damage or interruption from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, Internet and telecommunications failures and cybersecurity risks. Our computer systems and those of third parties we use in our operations may be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including cyber-attacks from state-sponsored entities and individual activity, such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. We have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and protect our data and systems; however, these systems and processes may not be effective, particularly given the increasingly sophisticated tools and methods used by hackers, organized cyber criminals, and cyber terrorists, and, similar to many other global multinational companies, we experience cyber-threats, cyber-attacks and other attempts to breach the security of our systems. Any fraudulent, malicious or accidental breach of data security could result in unintentional disclosure of, or unauthorized access to, customer, vendor, employee or other confidential or sensitive data or information, which could potentially result in additional costs to our company to enhance security or to respond to occurrences, lost sales, violations of privacy or other laws, notifications to individuals, penalties or litigation. Any failure of our systems, significant disruption to our operations or unauthorized access to our systems or those of third parties (or cloud computing service providers) we contract with to host our computing could result in significant expense to repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities, a loss of customers, legal or regulatory claims, and proceedings or fines and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We do not have control over the operations of the facilities of the third party cloud computing service that we use. This, coupled with the fact that we cannot easily switch our computing operations to another provider, means that any disruption of or interference with our use of our current third party cloud computing service could disrupt our operations and our business could be adversely impacted. If our products and services do not maintain and/or achieve broad market acceptance, or if we are unable to keep pace with or adapt to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, macroeconomic market conditions and changing regulatory requirements, our revenues could be adversely affected. Our business is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. Our growth and success depend upon our ability to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing customer needs and preferences. Our business could also be affected by macroeconomic factors beyond our control and our ability to keep pace with technology and business and regulatory changes is subject to a number of risks, including that we may find it difficult or costly to: update our products and services and develop new products and services quickly enough to meet our customers needs; make some features of our products work effectively and securely or with new or changed operating systems; and update our products and services to keep pace with business, evolving industry standards, regulatory requirements and other developments in the markets in which our customers operate. In addition, the principal customers for certain of the products and services are universities and government agencies, which fund purchases of these products and services from limited budgets that are sensitive to changes in private and governmental sources of funding. Recession, economic uncertainty or austerity have contributed, and may in the future contribute, to reductions in spending by such sources. Accordingly, any further decreases in budgets of universities or government agencies, which have remained under pressure, or changes in the spending patterns of private or governmental sources that fund academic institutions, could adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, key personnel could impair our future success. Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our employees, including our experts in research and analysis and other areas, as well as colleagues in sales, marketing, product development, critical operational roles, and management, including our executive officers. We must maintain our ability to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified colleagues in order to support our customers and achieve business results. The loss of the services of key personnel and our inability to recruit effective replacements or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our collection, storage and use of personal data are subject to applicable data protection and privacy laws, and any failure to comply with such laws may harm our reputation and business or expose us to fines and other enforcement action. 21 Table of Contents In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store, use and transmit certain types of information that are subject to different laws and regulations. In particular, data security and data protection laws and regulations that we are subject to often vary significantly by jurisdiction, such as the privacy requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data implemented by the EU-wide General Data Protection Regulation. It also significantly increased penalties for noncompliance, including where we act as a data processor. Data security and data protection laws and regulations are continuously evolving and there are currently a number of legal challenges to the validity of EU mechanisms for adequate data transfers such as the Privacy Shield Framework and the Standard Contractual Clauses. Although we have implemented policies and procedures that are designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, if our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with applicable current or future laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the EU ePrivacy Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Act, and the California Privacy Rights Act, we will likely be required to modify our data collection or processing practices and policies in an effort to comply with such laws and regulations, and we could be subject to increased costs, fines, litigation, regulatory investigations, and enforcement notices requiring us to change the way we use personal data or our marketing practices or other liabilities such as compensation claims by individuals affected by a personal data breach, as well as negative publicity and a potential loss of business. Our business continuity plans may not be effective against events that may adversely impact our business. We have established operational policies and procedures that manage the risks associated with business continuity and recovery from potential disruptions to our business. These policies and procedures are designed to increase the likelihood that we are prepared to continue operations during times of unexpected disruption, and we have taken steps to minimize risks that could lead to disruptions in our operations and to avoid our customers being harmed in the event of a significant disruption in our operations. However, there is no guarantee that these measures will be effective in minimizing any disruption from unexpected events that could result from a variety of causes, including human error, natural disasters (such as hurricanes and floods), infrastructure or network failures (including failures at third-party data centers, by third party cloud-computing providers, or of aging technology assets), and a disruption to our business that we are not capable of managing could adversely affect us. We are dependent on third parties, including public sources, for data, information and other services, and our relationships with such third parties may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Substantially all our products and services are developed using data, information or services obtained from third-party providers and public sources or are made available to our customers or are integrated for our customers use through information and technology solutions provided by third-party service providers. We have commercial relationships with third-party providers whose capabilities complement our own and, in some cases, these providers are also our competitors. The priorities and objectives of these providers, particularly those that are our competitors, may differ from ours, which may make us vulnerable to unpredicted price increases and unfavorable licensing terms. Agreements with such third-party providers periodically come up for renewal or renegotiation, and there is a risk that such negotiations may result in different rights and restrictions which could impact our customers use of the content. From time to time, we may also receive notices from third parties claiming infringement by our products and services of third-party patent and other IP rights and as the number of products and services in our markets increases and the functionality of these products and services further overlaps with third-party products and services, we may become increasingly subject to claims by a third party that our products and services infringe on such partys IP rights. Moreover, providers that are not currently our competitors may become competitors or be acquired by or merge with a competitor in the future, any of which could reduce our access to the information and technology solutions provided by those companies. If we do not maintain, or obtain the expected benefits from, our relationships with third-party providers or if a substantial number of our third-party providers or any key service providers were to withdraw their services, we may be less competitive, our ability to offer products and services to our customers may be negatively affected, and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and services. In recent years, more public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become available and this trend is expected to continue. Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products and services. Competition from such free or lower cost sources may also require us to reduce the price of some of our products 22 Table of Contents and services (which may result in lower revenues) or make additional capital investments (which might result in lower profit margins). Demand could also be reduced as a result of cost-cutting, reduced spending or reduced activity by customers. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our customers choose to use these public sources as a substitute for our products or services. We may be unable to derive fully the anticipated benefits from organic growth, existing or future acquisitions, joint ventures, investments or dispositions, including anticipated revenue and cost synergies, and costs associated with achieving synergies or integrating such acquisitions may exceed our expectations. We seek to achieve our growth objectives by optimizing our offerings to meet the needs of our customers through organic development, including by delivering integrated workflow platforms, cross-selling our products across our existing customer base, acquiring new customers, implementing operational efficiency initiatives, and through acquisitions, joint ventures, investments and dispositions. However, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of our acquisitions, including anticipated revenue, cost synergies or growth opportunities and we may not succeed in cross-selling our products and services. Moreover, we may not be able to integrate the assets acquired in any such acquisition or achieve our expected cost synergies without increases in costs or other difficulties. If we are unable to successfully execute on our strategies to achieve our growth objectives, drive operational efficiencies, realize our anticipated cost or revenue synergies or if we experience higher than expected operating costs that cannot be adjusted accordingly, our growth rates and profitability could be adversely affected, and the market price of our ordinary shares may decline. Furthermore, acquisitions may subject us to new types of risks to which we were not previously exposed. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and we may be adversely affected by competition and other changes in our markets. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and are subject to rapid technological changes and evolving customer demands and needs. We compete on the basis of various factors, including the quality of content embedded in our databases, customers perception of our products relative to the value that they deliver, user interface of the products and the quality of our overall offerings. Many of our principal competitors are established companies that have substantial financial resources, recognized brands, technological expertise and market experience, and these competitors sometimes have more established positions in certain product lines and geographies than we do. We also compete with smaller and sometimes newer companies, some of which are specialized with a narrower focus than our company, and with other Internet services companies and search providers. New and emerging technologies can also have the impact of allowing start-up companies to enter the market more quickly than they would have been able to in the past. In addition, some of our competitors combine competing products with complementary products as packaged solutions, which could pre-empt use of our products or solutions and some of our customers may decide to independently develop certain products and services. If we fail to compete effectively, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We generate a significant percentage of our revenues from recurring subscription-based arrangements and highly predictable re-occurring transactional ("re-occurring") arrangements. If we are unable to maintain a high annual renewal rate, our results of operations could be adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2022, approximately 78% of our revenues were subscription-based and re-occurring based. Because most of the revenues we report in each quarter are the result of subscription and re-occurring agreements entered into or renewed in previous quarters, with subscription renewals historically concentrated in the first quarter, a decline in subscriptions in any one quarter may not affect our results in that quarter, but could reduce revenues in future quarters. Our operating results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on our existing subscription and re-occurring arrangements and to obtain new subscriptions and re-occurring contracts with new and existing customers at competitive prices and other commercially acceptable terms. Uncertain global economic conditions, including inflationary pressures and rising interest rates, have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business, including on our revenues from re-occurring revenues arrangements. Failure to meet one or more of these subscription and re-occurring objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company, and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. Our ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of our brand and reputation. Failure to protect the reputation of our brands may adversely impact our credibility as a trusted source of content and may have a negative 23 Table of Contents impact on our business. In addition, in certain jurisdictions we engage sales agents in connection with the sale of certain of our products and services. Poor representation of our products and services by agents, or entities acting without our permission, could have an adverse effect on our brands, reputation and our business. The international scope of our operations may expose us to increased risk, and our international operations and corporate and financing structure may expose us to potentially adverse tax consequences. We have international operations and, accordingly, our business is subject to risks resulting from differing legal and regulatory requirements, political, social and economic conditions and unforeseeable developments in a variety of jurisdictions. Our international operations are subject to the following risks, among others: political instability; international hostilities (including the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine and related sanctions and negative economic impacts), military actions, terrorist or cyber-terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics (including a prolonged and delayed recovery from COVID-19), and infrastructure disruptions; differing economic cycles and adverse economic conditions; unexpected changes in regulatory environments and government interference in the economy and the possibility that the U.S. could default on its debt obligations; increasing inflationary pressures and rising interests rates; varying tax regimes, including with respect to the imposition of withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by our partnerships or subsidiaries and the possibility that a U.S. person treated as owning at least 10% of our ordinary shares could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences; differing labor regulations in locations where we have a significant number of employees; foreign exchange controls and restrictions on repatriation of funds; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; insufficient protection against product piracy and differing protections for IP rights; varying attitudes towards censorship and the treatment of information service providers by foreign governments, particularly in emerging markets; various trade restrictions (including trade and economic sanctions and export controls prohibiting or restricting transactions involving certain persons and certain designated countries or territories) and anti-corruption laws (including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010); possible difficulties in enforcing a U.S. judgment against us or our directors and officers residing outside the United States, or asserting securities law claims outside of the United States; and protecting your interests as a shareholder due to the differing rights of shareholders under Jersey law, where we are incorporated. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so without incurring unexpected costs. If we are not able to manage the risks related to our international operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected. In addition, the international scope of our business operations subjects us to multiple overlapping tax regimes that can make it difficult to determine what our obligations are in particular situations. For example, we have been advised that we should be able to deliver the Merger Shares, consistent with our obligations under the Sponsor Agreement, to the recipients thereof without withholding for U.K. employment and related taxes. However, it is possible that His Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) could dispute our position and proceed against us for the amount of such taxes, which could be significant and, if sustained, could adversely affect our cash flows and financial position. Although we believe we would ultimately prevail in any such a proceeding, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to pay a significant amount in settlement of any such a claim brought by HMRC. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our indebtedness could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations and our other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults; events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses; 24 Table of Contents sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate outstanding indebtedness, which could result in increased interest under our credit facilities which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly; reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions; and if we receive a downgrade of our credit ratings, our cost of borrowing could increase, negatively affecting our ability to access the capital markets on advantageous terms, or at all. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our debt obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, for many reasons, including to fund acquisitions. Such additional indebtedness may be subject to higher borrowing costs as a result of rising interest rates. If we add additional debt or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could intensify. Our outstanding private placement warrants are accounted for as liabilities and are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value each period reported in earnings, which may cause volatility in our earnings and thus may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. As described in our financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company accounts for its outstanding private placement warrants as liabilities at fair value on the balance sheet. The private placement warrants are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date and any change in fair value is recognized as a component of change in fair value as of the end of each period for which earnings are reported. The Company will continue to adjust the liability for changes in fair value until the earlier of exercise or expiration of the warrants. The volatility introduced by changes in fair value on earnings may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. We have incurred impairment charges for our goodwill and may incur further impairment charges for our goodwill and other intangible assets, which would negatively impact our operating results. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 2022, we performed an interim quantitative goodwill impairment assessment over our reporting units due to possible impairment indicators including worsening market considerations and macroeconomic conditions, such as increasing inflationary pressures and rising interest rates, and sustained declines in the Companys share price during the period. As a result of the assessment, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge as of September 30, 2022 of $4,407.9 related to our ProQuest reporting unit, our former IP Management reporting unit and our former Patent reporting unit. The impairment charge recorded for the ProQuest reporting unit and the former IP Management reporting unit represented a total write-off of the goodwill associated with these respective reporting units. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter of the year or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise, and should market conditions or macroeconomic conditions continue to deteriorate, including a rise in inflationary pressures and interest rates, or a decline in our results of operations, the result of such review may indicate a decline in the fair value of goodwill requiring additional impairment charges for the former Patent reporting unit or additional reporting units. In the event we are required to record an additional non-cash impairment charge to our goodwill, other intangibles, and/or long-lived assets, such a non-cash charge could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheets in the reporting period in which we record the charge. For additional information, see Part I, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and Assumptions-Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible assets. 25 Table of Contents Our Board has adopted a Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, which may not protect the future availability of the Companys tax assets in all circumstances and which could delay or discourage takeover attempts that some shareholders may consider favorable. As of December 31, 2022, we had U.S. federal net operating losses (NOLs) and interest expense carryforwards totaling approximately $1,636.9, and comparable U.S. state carryforwards of approximately $495.0. Pursuant to Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder, a corporation that undergoes an ownership change is subject to limitations on its use of its existing NOL and interest expense carryforwards and certain other tax attributes (collectively, Tax Assets), which can be utilized in certain circumstances to offset future U.S. tax liabilities. A corporation generally undergoes an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 if one or more 5% shareholders (as determined under Section 382) increase their ownership of the corporations stock by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. In the event of such an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-change Tax Assets. Similar rules apply in various U.S. state and local jurisdictions. A small portion of our Tax Assets are currently subject to limitations under Section 382. However, with respect to the substantial majority of our Tax Assets, while we have in recent years experienced significant changes in the ownership of our stock, we do not believe we have undergone an ownership change that would limit our ability to use these Tax Assets. However, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge this position. On December 22, 2022, the Board of Directors adopted the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan (the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan) to help protect the future availability of the Companys Tax Assets. The Tax Benefits Preservation Plan is intended to reduce the likelihood of such an ownership change at the Company by deterring any person or group that would be treated as a 5% shareholder from acquiring beneficial ownership, as determined for purposes of the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, of either (i) 4.9% or more of the outstanding Ordinary Shares of the Company or (ii) 4.9% or more (by value) of the Companys capital stock. It also deters existing shareholders who currently meet or exceed this ownership threshold from acquiring additional Company stock. See Note 16 - Income Taxes of our financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on the terms and operation of the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan. However, there can be no assurance that the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan will prevent an ownership change from occurring for purposes of Section 382, and events outside of our control and which may not be subject to the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, such as sales of our stock by certain existing shareholders, may result in such an ownership change in the future. While we currently have a full valuation allowance against our NOLs and other historic Tax Assets for financial accounting purposes, if we have undergone or in the future undergo an ownership change that applies to our Tax Assets, our ability to use these Tax Assets could be substantially limited after the ownership change, and this limit could have a substantial adverse effect on our cash flows and financial position. While the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan is not principally intended to prevent a takeover, it may have an anti-takeover effect because an acquiring person thereunder may be diluted upon the occurrence of a triggering event. Accordingly, the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan may complicate or discourage a merger, tender offer, accumulations of substantial blocks of our stock, or assumption of control by a substantial holder of our securities. The Tax Benefits Preservation Plan should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by the Board of Directors. Because the Board of Directors may consent to certain transactions, the Tax Benefits Preservation Plan gives our Board of Directors significant discretion to act in the best interests of shareholders. 26 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report includes statements that express our opinions, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or projections regarding future events or future results and therefore are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the "safe harbor provisions" of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, seeks, projects, intends, plans, may, will or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts. They appear in a number of places throughout this annual report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, anticipated cost savings, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the markets in which we operate. Such forward-looking statements are based on available current market material and managements expectations, beliefs and forecasts concerning future events impacting us. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include: any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks; our ability to maintain revenues if our products and services do not achieve and maintain broad market acceptance, or if we are unable to keep pace with or adapt to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, macroeconomic market conditions and changing regulatory requirements; our loss of, or inability to attract and retain, key personnel; our ability to comply with applicable data protection and privacy laws; the effectiveness of our business continuity plans; our dependence on third parties, including public sources, for data, information and other services, and our relationships with such third parties; increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources; our ability to derive fully the anticipated benefits from organic growth, existing or future acquisitions, joint ventures, investments or dispositions; our ability to compete in the highly competitive industry in which we operate, and potential adverse effects of this competition; our ability to maintain high annual renewal rates; the strength of our brand and reputation; our exposure to risk from the international scope of our operations, and our exposure to potentially adverse tax consequences from the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure; our substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations; volatility in our earnings due to changes in the fair value of our outstanding warrants each period; and other factors beyond our control. The forward-looking statements contained in this annual report are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting us will be those that we have anticipated. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those factors described under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of the assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from 27 Table of Contents those projected in these forward-looking statements. We will not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters are located in the leased premises located at 70 St. Mary Axe, London EC3A 8BE, United Kingdom. We lease office facilities at 66 locations; 27 are in the U.S. In addition, we own real property in one location outside of the US. Our properties consist primarily of office space used by each of our segments. We believe that all our facilities are well maintained and are suitable and adequate for our current needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are a party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. While the outcomes of these matters are uncertain, management does not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For additional discussion of legal proceedings, see