Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions, except share and per share data, option prices, ratios or as noted) Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K and the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, including the notes thereto, included elsewhere in this report. Certain statements in this section are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements regarding our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our future results and financial condition may differ materially from those we currently anticipate as a result of the factors we describe under Item 1A. Risk Factors. Certain income statement amounts discussed herein are presented on an actual and on a constant currency basis. We calculate constant currency by converting the non-U.S. dollar income statement balances for the most current year to U.S. dollars by applying the average exchange rates of the preceding year. Certain amounts that appear in this section may not sum due to rounding. Overview We offer a collection of high quality, market leading information and analytic products and solutions through our Academia and Government ("A&G") segment, Intellectual Property (IP) segment, and Life Sciences and Healthcare ("LS&H") segment, which are also our reportable segments. Our A&G segment consists of our Academia and Government product group as well as Web of Science products. The A&G segment provides curated high-value, structured content, discovery solutions and related software applications that are embedded into the workflows of our customers, which include libraries, universities and research institutions world-wide. Our IP segment consists of our patent, trademark, and IP management products and solutions. These products and solutions help manage customers' end-to-end portfolio of intellectual property from patents to trademarks across the entire IP lifecycle. The LS&H segment contains our products and solutions which serve the content and analytical needs of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies across the drug development lifecycle, including content on discovery and preclinical research, competitive intelligence, regulatory information and clinical trials. Factors Affecting the Comparability of Our Results of Operations There have been no material changes to the factors affecting the comparability of our results of operations associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Factors Affecting the Comparability of Our Results of Operations section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks and Uncertainties As the conflict in Ukraine continues to evolve, we are closely monitoring the current and potential impact on our business, our people, and our clients. Given the levying of sanctions, regional instability, geopolitical shifts, and other potential adverse effects on macroeconomic conditions, security conditions, currency exchange, and financial markets, the short and long-term implications of Russias invasion of Ukraine are not possible to predict. We do not expect any direct impacts to our business to be material, but we are not currently able to predict any indirect impacts on the global economy and how those could negatively affect our business in the future. However, revenue growth in 2022 was slightly impacted by our decision to cease commercial operations in Russia in March 2022. We continue to monitor any evolving impacts of this conflict and its effects on the global economy and geopolitical landscape. Key Performance Indicators We regularly monitor the following key performance indicators to evaluate our business and trends, measure our performance, prepare financial projections and make strategic decisions. We include Revenue growth, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, Annualized Contract Value, Annual Renewal Rates and Free Cash Flow as key performance indicators because they are a basis upon which our management assesses our performance and we believe they reflect the underlying trends and indicators of our business by allowing management to focus on the most meaningful indicators of our continuous operational performance. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin and Free Cash Flow are financial measures that are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP). Although we believe these measures may be useful to investors for the same reasons, these measures are not a substitute for GAAP financial measures or disclosures. For a reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures to the corresponding most closely related measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, see Certain Non-GAAP Measures below. 27 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions, except share and per share data, option prices, ratios or as noted) Organic revenue growth We review year-over-year organic revenue growth in our segments as a key measure of our success in addressing customer needs. We also review year-over-year organic revenue growth by transaction type to help us identify and address broad changes in product mix, and by geography to help us identify and address broad changes and revenue trends by region. We measure organic revenue growth excluding acquisitions, disposals, and foreign currency impacts. We define these components as follows: Organic: We define organic revenue growth as total revenue growth from continuing operations for all factors other than acquisitions, disposals, and foreign currency movements. We drive this type of revenue growth through pricing, up-selling and cross-selling efforts, securing new customer business, and the sale of new or enhanced product offerings. Acquisitions: We define acquisition revenue as the revenue generated from acquired products and services from the date of acquisition to the first anniversary date of that acquisition. This type of growth comes as a result of our strategy of the pursuit of acquisition opportunities. Disposals: We define disposals revenue as the revenue generated in the prior year comparative period from product lines, services, and/or businesses divested from the date of the sale in the current period presented. Foreign Currency: We define the foreign currency impact on revenue as the difference between current revenue at current exchange rates and current revenue at the corresponding prior period exchange rates. Due to the significance of revenue transacted in foreign currencies, we believe that it is important to measure the impact of foreign currency movements on revenue. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted EBITDA is presented because it is a basis upon which our management assesses our performance, and we believe it is useful for investors to understand the underlying trends of our operations. See Certain Non-GAAP Measures - Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin for important information on the limitations of Adjusted EBITDA and its reconciliation to our net loss under U.S. GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA represents net loss before provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, interest income and expense adjusted to exclude acquisition or disposal-related transaction costs (such costs include net income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes, depreciation and amortization and interest income and expense from divestitures), share-based compensation, mandatory convertible preferred share dividend expense, unrealized foreign currency gains (losses), transformational and restructuring expenses, acquisition-related adjustments to deferred revenues prior to the adoption of FASB ASU No. 2021-08 in 2021, non-operating income or expense, the impact of certain non-cash, mark to market adjustments on financial instruments, legal settlements and other items that are included in net income for the period that the Company does not consider indicative of its ongoing operating performance and certain unusual items impacting results in a particular period. Adjusted EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by Revenues, net plus the impact of the deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustments relating to acquisitions prior to 2021. Annualized Contract Value Annualized Contract Value (ACV), at a given point in time, represents the annualized value for the next 12 months of subscription-based client license agreements, assuming that all expiring license agreements during that period are renewed at their current price level. License agreements may cover more than one product and the standard subscription period for each license agreement typically runs for no less than 12 months. The renewal period for our subscriptions starts 90 days before the end of the current subscription period, during which customers must provide notice of whether they intend to renew or cancel the license agreement. An initial subscription period for new customers may be for a term of less than 12 months, in certain circumstances. Most of our customers, however, opt to enter into a full 12-month initial subscription period, resulting in renewal periods spread throughout the calendar year. Customers that license more than one subscription-based product may, at any point during the renewal period, provide notice of their intent to renew only certain subscriptions within the license agreement and cancel other subscriptions, which we typically refer to as a downgrade. In other instances, customers may upgrade their license agreements by adding additional subscription-based products to the original agreement. Our calculation of ACV includes the 28 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions, except share and per share data, option prices, ratios or as noted) impact of downgrades, upgrades, price increases, and cancellations that have occurred as of the reporting period. For avoidance of doubt, ACV does not include fees associated with transactional and re-occurring revenues. We monitor ACV because it represents a leading indicator of the potential subscription revenues that may be generated from our existing customer base over the upcoming 12-month period. Measurement of subscription revenues as a key operating metric is particularly relevant because a majority of our revenues are generated through subscription-based and re-occurring revenues, which accounted for 79.6% and 78.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We calculate and monitor ACV for each of our segments and use the metric as part of our evaluation of our business and trends. The amount of actual subscription revenues that we earn over any 12-month period are likely to differ from ACV at the beginning of that period, sometimes significantly. This may occur for numerous reasons, including subsequent changes in annual renewal rates, impact of price increases (or decreases), cancellations, upgrades and downgrades, and acquisitions and divestitures. We calculate the ACV on a constant currency basis to exclude the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. The following table presents ACV as of the dates indicated: March 31, Change 2023 2022 2023 vs. 2022(1) Annualized Contract Value $ 1,555.2 $ 1,606.5 $ (51.3) (3.2) % (1)The change in ACV is primarily due to the divestiture of MarkMonitor in October 2022 and changes in foreign exchange rates, supplemented by organic ACV growth of 3.3% largely attributed to the impact of price increases. Annual Renewal Rates Our revenues are primarily subscription based, which leads to high revenue predictability. Our ability to retain existing subscription customers is a key performance indicator that helps explain the evolution of our historical results and is a leading indicator of our revenues and cash flows for the subsequent reporting period. Annual renewal rate is the metric we use to determine renewal levels by existing customers across all of our Segments, and is a leading indicator of renewal trends, which impact the evolution of our ACV and results of operations. We calculate the annual renewal rate for a given period by dividing (a) the annualized dollar value of existing subscription product license agreements that are renewed during that period, including the value of any product downgrades, by (b) the annualized dollar value of existing subscription product license agreements that come up for renewal in that period. Open renewals, which we define as existing subscription product license agreements that come up for renewal but are neither renewed nor canceled by customers during the applicable reposting period, are excluded from both the numerator and denominator of the calculation. We calculate the annual renewal rate to reflect the value of product downgrades but not the value of product upgrades upon renewal, because upgrades reflect the purchase of additional services. The impact of upgrades, new subscriptions and product price increases is reflected in ACV, but not in annual renewal rates. Our annual renewal rates were 93.5% and 92.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Free Cash Flow We use free cash flow in our operational and financial decision-making and believe free cash flow is useful to investors because similar measures are frequently used by securities analysts, investors, ratings agencies and other interested parties to measure the ability of a company to service its debt. Our presentation of free cash flow should not be construed as a measure of liquidity or discretionary cash available to us to fund our cash needs, including investing in the growth of our business and meeting our obligations. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. For further discussion on free cash flow, including a reconciliation to cash flows provided by operating activities, refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Flows below. 29 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions, except share and per share data, option prices, ratios or as noted) Key Components of Our Results of Operations There have been no material changes to the key components of our results of operations discussed in Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. 30 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions, except share and per share data, option prices, ratios or as noted) Results of Operations Revenues, net Revenues, net of $629.1 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, decreased by $33.1, or 5.0%, from $662.2 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. On a constant currency basis, Revenues, net decreased by $20.2, or 3.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Revenue by Transaction Type The following table presents our revenues by transaction type for the periods indicated, as well as the drivers of the variances between periods, including as a percentage of such revenues: Variance Increase/(Decrease) Percentage of Factors Increase/(Decrease) Three Months Ended March 31, Total Variance (Dollars) Total Variance (Percentage) Acquisitions Disposals FX Impact Organic (in millions, except percentages) 2023 2022 Subscription revenues $ 393.2 $ 403.8 $ (10.6) (2.6) % % (4.4) % (1.3) % 3.1 % Re-occurring revenues 107.7 114.5 (6.8) (5.9) % % % (4.2) % (1.7) % Transactional and other revenues 128.2 143.7 (15.5) (10.8) % % (0.6) % (1.9) % (8.3) % Deferred revenues adjustment 0.2 (0.2) (100.0) % (100.0) % % % % Revenues, net $ 629.1 $ 662.2 $ (33.1) (5.0) % % (2.8) % (1.9) % (0.2) % On a constant currency basis, subscription revenues decreased by $5.2, or 1.3%. Disposal subscription revenue reductions relate to the MarkMonitor business divestiture. Organic subscription revenues increased primarily due to price increases and the benefit of net installations, reflecting a trend consistent with the increase in our ACV between periods. On a constant currency basis, re-occurring revenues decreased by $2.0, or 1.7%. Organic re-occurring revenues declined due to lower patent renewal volumes. On a constant currency basis, transactional and other revenues decreased by $12.8, or 8.9%. Organic transactional and other revenues declined primarily due to lower LS&H real world data sales, A&G eBooks revenue and IP trademarks transactional volumes and patent filing revenue. Revenue by Geography The following table presents our revenues by geography for the periods indicated, as well as the drivers of the variances between periods, including as a percentage of such revenues: Variance Increase/(Decrease) Percentage of Factors Increase/(Decrease) Three Months Ended March 31, Total Variance (Dollars) Total Variance (Percentage) Acquisitions Disposals FX Impact Organic (in millions, except percentages) 2023 2022 Americas $ 339.5 $ 360.3 $ (20.8) (5.8) % % (4.2) % (0.6) % (1.0) % Europe/Middle East/Africa 167.0 177.5 (10.5) (5.9) % % (1.4) % (4.1) % (0.5) % Asia Pacific 122.6 124.2 (1.6) (1.3) % % (0.8) % (2.9) % 2.4 % Deferred revenues adjustment 0.2 (0.2) (100.0) % (100.0) % % % % Revenues, net $ 629.1 $ 662.2 $ (33.1) (5.0) % % (2.8) % (1.9) % (0.2) % Disposals revenue reductions for all regions relate to the MarkMonitor business divestiture. On a constant currency basis, Americas revenues decreased by $18.7, or 5.2%, with organic decline due to lower IP re-occurring patent renewal and transactional trademarks and patent filing revenues combined with lower LS&H real world data sales. On a constant currency basis, Europe/Middle East/Africa revenues decreased by $3.3, or 1.9%, with organic decline due to lower LS&H real world data sales and services revenue. On a constant currency basis, Asia Pacific revenues increased by $2.0, or 1.6%, with organic growth led by A&G and IP subscription revenue. 31 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions, except share and per share data, option prices, ratios or as noted) Revenue by Segment The following table presents our revenues by segment for the periods indicated, as well as the drivers of the variances between periods, including as a percentage of such revenues: Variance Increase/(Decrease) Percentage of Factors Increase/(Decrease) Three Months Ended March 31, Total Variance (Dollars) Total Variance (Percentage) Acquisitions Disposals FX Impact Organic (in millions, except percentages) 2023 2022 Academia and Government $ 314.7 $ 311.8 $ 2.9 0.9 % % % (1.2) % 2.1 % Intellectual Property 209.1 241.6 (32.5) (13.5) % % (7.6) % (3.3) % (2.5) % Life Sciences and Healthcare 105.3 108.6 (3.3) (3.0) % % % (1.1) % (1.9) % Deferred revenues adjustment 0.2 (0.2) (100.0) % (100.0) % % % % Revenues, net $ 629.1 $ 662.2 $ (33.1) (5.0) % % (2.8) % (1.9) % (0.2) % Academia and Government Segment: On a constant currency basis, revenues increased by $6.6, or 2.1%. Organic revenues, on a constant currency basis, increased primarily due to subscription revenues growth due to price increases and the benefit of net installations. Intellectual Property Segment: On a constant currency basis, revenues decreased by $24.5, or 10.1%. Organic revenues, on a constant currency basis, declined primarily due to lower re-occurring patent renewal revenue and declines in transactional trademarks and patent filing revenue. Disposal revenue reductions relate to the MarkMonitor business divestiture. Life Sciences and Healthcare Segment: On a constant currency basis, revenues decreased by $2.1, or 1.9%. Organic revenues, on a constant currency basis, declined primarily due to lower transactional real world data sales. Subscription revenues growth due to price increases and the benefit of net installations offset the transactional decline in part. Operating Expenses The following table presents certain of our operating expense line item amounts and their associated percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 vs. 2022 (in millions, except percentages) 2023 2022 $ % Operating Expenses: Cost of revenues $ 229.7 $ 249.2 $ (19.5) (7.8) % Selling, general and administrative costs 194.8 193.7 1.1 0.6 % Total cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative costs $ 424.5 $ 442.9 $ (18.4) (4.2) % As a percentage of revenue: Cost of revenues 36.5 % 37.6 % Selling, general and administrative costs 31.0 % 29.3 % Total cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative costs 67.5 % 66.9 % Cost of Revenues On a constant currency basis, cost of revenues decreased by $14.0, or 5.6%, primarily attributed to the MarkMonitor business divestiture and a reduction in outside-service and capitalized people costs. Selling, General and Administrative On a constant currency basis, selling, general and administrative expense increased by $6.9, or 3.6%, primarily attributed to increased share-based compensation expense and expenses for travel and meetings. Depreciation and amortization 32 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions, except share and per share data, option prices, ratios or as noted) Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 vs. 2022 2023 2022 $ % Depreciation and amortization $ 172.6 $ 176.4 $ (3.8) (2.2) % The decrease for the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily relates to a decrease in depreciation from capital office leases. As a percentage of revenues, net, depreciation and amortization expense increased by 0.8% to 27.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to 26.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Restructuring and Impairment Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 vs. 2022 2023 2022 $ % Restructuring and impairment $ 9.4 $ 11.7 $ (2.3) (19.7) % The decrease for the three months ended March 31, 2023, was primarily driven by the wind-down of expenses associated with the One Clarivate Program, which was partially offset by an increase to severance and related benefit costs under the ProQuest Acquisition Integration Program. As of March 31, 2023, we are not expecting to incur any significant further costs under the One Clarivate Program. See Note 19 - Restructuring and Impairment for further information. The following table summarizes the total costs incurred to date and expected costs to be incurred in a future period for each program. Total Costs Incurred to Date Costs Expected to be Incurred in Future Periods One Clarivate Program $ 37.1 $ ProQuest Acquisition Integration Program 60.3 20.0 Other Restructuring Programs: CPA Global Acquisition Integration and Optimization Program 128.1 DRG Acquisition Integration Program 7.3 Operation Simplification and Optimization Program 44.5 Total Other Restructuring Programs $ 179.9 $ Other Operating Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 vs. 2022 2023 2022 $ % Other operating income, net $ (32.0) $ (13.7) $ (18.3) (133.6) % The fluctuation for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022, was primarily driven by a $49.4 gain on legal settlement and offset by the consolidated impact of the remeasurement of the assets and liabilities of our Company that are denominated in currencies other than each relevant entitys functional currency, with the largest impacts derived from transactions denominated in GBP. Mark to Market Loss (Gain) on Financial Instruments Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 vs. 2022 2023 2022 $ % Mark to market loss (gain) on financial instruments $ 1.1 $ (100.4) $ 101.5 101.1 % 33 Table of Contents CLARIVATE PLC Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (In millions, except share and per share data, option prices, ratios or as noted) The Company accounts for its outstanding private placement warrants as liabilities at fair value on the balance sheet, which are subject to remeasurement at each balance sheet date and any change in fair value is recognized as of the end of each period for which earnings are reported. The change in fair value, resulting in a loss for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to the gain in the prior year period, was driven primarily by changes in the risk-free rate as well as changes in the Companys share price, thus impacting inputs to the Black-Scholes option valuation models as of each reporting period then ended. Interest Expense and amortization of debt discount, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2023 vs. 2022 2023 2022 $ % Interest expense and amortization of debt discount, net $ 73.6 $ 59.5 $ 14.1 23.7 % The increase for three months ended March 31, 2023 is primarily attributed to higher interest rates on borrowings under our Term Loan Facility, subject to a floating base interest rate, plus a margin. See Note 9 - Debt and