Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections contained in this document, and any subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. You should read this document completely and with the understanding that our actual future results or events may be materially different from what we expect. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Information regarding market and industry statistics contained in this report is included based on information available to us that we believe is accurate, but that is not produced for purposes of securities filings or economic analysis. We have not independently verified any market, industry or similar data presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and cannot assure you of its accuracy or completeness. Forecasts and other forward-looking statements obtained from these sources are subject to the same qualifications and the additional uncertainties accompanying any estimates of future market size, revenue and market acceptance of products and services. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur, or of which we hereafter become aware. As a result, investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. 5 PART I Item 1. Business As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms we, us, our, the Company, CleanSpark, Inc. and CleanSpark mean CleanSpark, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. Dollar amounts presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, bitcoin price, and information set forth under the heading Bitcoin Mining Operations. Overview CleanSpark is a bitcoin mining company. We independently own and operate five data centers in Georgia for a total developed capacity of 230 megawatts (MW). We are developing an additional 150 MW at our data center in Sandersville, GA, which is expected to energize in early 2024. We do not currently host miners for any other companies. A partner in Massena, NY, hosts 50 MW for us. We design our proprietary infrastructure to responsibly support bitcoin, the worlds most important digital commodity and an essential tool for financial independence and inclusion. Through CleanSpark and our wholly owned subsidiaries, we have operated in the bitcoin mining sector since December 2020. From March 2014 to June 30, 2022, we provided advanced energy technology solutions to commercial and residential customers to solve modern energy challenges in the alternative energy sector. As of June 30, 2022, we discontinued our energy operations due to our strategic decision to strictly focus on our bitcoin mining operations. Business Activity Bitcoin mining is our principal revenue generating business activity. As of September 30, 2023, we operated 88,954 bitcoin mining machines, with a hashrate capacity of approximately 9.6 exahashes per second (EH/s) and a fleetwide efficiency of 28.4 joules per terahash (J/TH). In fiscal year 2023, we mined 6,903 bitcoins, an 84% increase over the 3,752 bitcoins we mined in fiscal year 2022. We expect to continue increasing our computing power through 2024 and beyond as we expand our infrastructure at our owned sites in the State of Georgia, seek strategic acquisition targets, and through strategic co-location agreements. Bitcoin was introduced in 2008 with the goal of serving as a digital means of exchanging and storing value. Bitcoin depends on a consensus-based network and a public ledger called a blockchain, which contains a record of every bitcoin transaction ever processed. The bitcoin network is the first decentralized peer-to-peer payment network powered by users participating in the consensus protocol, with no central authority or intermediaries, that has wide network participation. The authenticity of each bitcoin transaction is protected through digital signatures that correspond with addresses of users that send and receive bitcoin. Users have full control over remitting bitcoin from their own sending addresses. All transactions on the bitcoin blockchain are transparent, allowing those running the appropriate software to confirm the validity of each transaction. To be recorded on the blockchain, each bitcoin transaction is broadcast across the network and validated by nodes. Miners then compete, using a proof-of-work consensus method, to find a target hash value, or output of a cryptographic function, and thereby add a new block and its transactions to the blockchain. This process is called mining. Miners are rewarded with bitcoins, in the form of newly-created bitcoins from the block subsidy and transaction fees included in that block. Factors such as access to computer processing capacity, interconnectivity, electricity cost, environmental factors (such as cooling capacity) and location play important roles in mining. In bitcoin mining, hashrate is a measure of the computing and processing power and speed by which a mining computer mines and processes transactions on the bitcoin network. A companys hashrate determines its market share and is therefore generally considered one of the most important metrics for evaluating bitcoin mining companies. We obtain bitcoin as a result of our mining operations by contributing all of our computing power (both owned locations and hosted locations) to one mining pool operator who is our sole customer. The contract with our mining pool operator is terminable at any time by either party. In exchange for providing computing power to the mining pool, we are entitled to bitcoin rewards from the mining pool operator, which is a variable consideration calculated based on a predetermined formula agreed to by us and the mining pool operator as a part of the arrangement. The variable consideration is constrained until we can reasonably estimate the amount of mining rewards by the end of a 6 given day based on the actual amount of computing power provided to the mining pool operator. By then, we consider it a high probability that a significant reversal in the amount of revenue will not occur and include such variable consideration in the transaction price. Providing computing power is an output of our ordinary activities and the only performance obligation in our contracts with our mining pool operator. We recognize the revenue when the variable consideration is no longer constrained and the performance obligation of providing computing power has been satisfied. As a result, we do not present disaggregated revenue information on block rewards and transaction verification fees. We sell bitcoin from time to time, to support our operations and strategic growth. We do not currently plan to engage in regular trading of bitcoin (other than as necessary to convert our bitcoin to U.S. dollars) or to engage in hedging activities related to our holding of bitcoin; however, our decisions to hold or sell bitcoin at any given time may be impacted by the bitcoin market, which has been historically characterized by significant volatility. Decisions to hold or sell bitcoins are determined by management by analyzing forecasts and monitoring the market in real time. Through our wholly owned subsidiaries CSRE Properties, LLC, CSRE Property Management Company, LLC, CSRE Properties Norcross, LLC, CSRE Properties Washington, LLC, CSRE Properties Sandersville, LLC, CSRE Properties Dalton, LLC, and CleanSpark HQ, LLC, we maintain real property holdings. Markets, Geography and Major Customers Bitcoin is a global store and exchange of value used by people across the world as an asset and to conduct daily transactions. Mining bitcoin supports the global bitcoin blockchain and the millions of people that depend on it for economic security and other benefits. Strictly speaking, there is no customer market for mining bitcoin but we consider our mining pool operator a customer because it compensates us for providing processing power to the mining pool (see Part I, Item 1A., Risk FactorsOur reliance on a third-party mining pool service provider for our mining revenue payouts may adversely affect an investment in us.). We own and operate our own facilities and do not lease mining space to other mining companies or private individuals that mine. Our wholly-owned mining operations are located in the State of Georgia in the United States. We also have a relationship with a facility located in New York State that hosts a portion of our miners. College Park, GA Facility CleanSparks first ever bitcoin mining facility is in College Park, GA. It sits on six acres near the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport and features at its heart 48 new generation air-cooled pods. Machines are also housed in 20 Ant boxes, an annex building and within the original data center. As of September 30, 2023, the facility maintained an operational hashrate of 1.7 EH/s. Norcross, GA Facility An 87,000-square-foot data center in Norcross, GA was purchased and transformed into CleanSparks second bitcoin mining facility. Situated on over seven acres, the immersion-cooled site participates in Georgias Flex REC program and is 100% net carbon-neutral. There are two large rooms that house 20 MW of single-phase immersionabout 4,300 machines. Liquid immersion cooling, where bitcoin mining machines are fully immersed in a specialized oil, has proven to significantly improve efficiency by reducing power consumption and extending the life of the machinesthereby maximizing financial gains. As of September, 30, 2023, the facility maintained an operational hashrate of 0.5 EH/s. Washington, GA Facility Nestled between Augusta and Athens, the historic town of Washington is home to CleanSparks third bitcoin mining facility. It was purchased during the summer 2022 bear market from another bitcoin miner as an already-operational site. Bitcoin mining machines are set up in multiple air-cooled buildings. A completed 50 MW expansion in July 2023 created four more buildings filled with an additional 14,000 latest-generation miners. It draws power predominantly from low-carbon sources, such as nuclear energy. As of September 30, 2023, the facility maintained an operational hashrate of 3.0 EH/s. Sandersville, GA Facility 7 CleanSparks fourth bitcoin mining site (and second to be purchased during the summer 2022 bear market) is the largest facility in our portfolio. The turnkey operation in Sandersville, GA was acquired from another bitcoin miner with room to almost triple its capacity. The site is undergoing a 150 MW expansion with expected completion early in our second fiscal quarter ending March 2024. Each building will house thousands of high-performance bitcoin mining machines and, once completed, will add over 6.0 EH/s to our hashrate. As of September 30, 2023, the facility maintained an operational hashrate of 2.1 EH/s. Dalton, GA Facility Dalton marks CleanSparks fifth campus in Georgia. It collaborates closely with the local utility, which is owned and operated by the City of Dalton. This campus is made of two separate sites a few miles from each other. As of September 30, 2023, the facility maintained an operational hashrate of 0.8 EH/s. Massena, NY Hosting Site We also co-locate some of our machines at the facilities of Coinmint, LLC ("Coinmint") in Massena, NY. The facility runs on hydroelectric power. As of September 30, 2023, our machines there maintained an operational hashrate of 1.5 EH/s. Working Capital Items The bitcoin mining industry is highly competitive and dependent on specialized mining machines that have few manufacturers. Machine purchases often require large down payments and miner deliveries often arrive many months after initial orders are placed. However, over the last 12 months, we have seen a significant improvement in the availability and pricing of bitcoin mining machines. In addition to purchasing directly from manufacturers, the current market conditions have provided opportunities to purchase both new and used machines on the spot-market from other miners or retail-dealers of machines for better financial terms and delivery terms, but there can be no guarantee that such opportunities will continue on a long-term basis. We purchase mining machines through re-sellers and directly from manufacturers. Whether re-sellers or manufacturers have better purchase and delivery terms or more/superior inventory available is likely to change from time to time. In addition to the approximate 88,000 miners (application-specific integrated circuits or ASIC) in operation as of the date of this filing, the Company has received, and will be installing in the coming months approximately 45,000 more miners in our soon-to-be-completed 150 MW expansion of our Sandersville location. The Company entered into an additional agreement to purchase 4.4 EH/s of S21 miners in October 2023 and is scheduled to receive these miners beginning in January 2024. Most miners we operate and expect to operate once received are the latest generation of miners manufactured by Bitmain Technologies Ltd. (Bitmain), including the S19-Pro, S19j-Pro, S19j-Pro+, S19 XP and S21. Distribution, Marketing and Strategic Relationships We have developed strategic relationships with well-established companies in key areas, including utilities, traditional and renewable energy, infrastructure, construction, and bitcoin mining equipment procurement. In addition to operating our own mining facilities, we may engage with third-parties to host and operate mining equipment on our behalf. Coinmint On July 8, 2021, our subsidiary CleanBlok, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("CleanBlok"), entered into a services agreement with Coinmint. Pursuant to the agreement, Coinmint has agreed to house and power certain of our bitcoin mining equipment in its facilities, and to use commercially reasonable efforts to mine bitcoin on our behalf. All bitcoin mining services performed by Coinmint are conducted using our own mining equipment. All computing power generated by our ASICs is contributed to our mining pool operator, Foundry Digital. As of the date of this filing, we have deployed approximately 16,400 total miners pursuant to the co-location mining services agreement at Coinmints facility in New York. 8 Pursuant to the agreement, as consideration for its services, we pay Coinmint certain services fees, which are based on the operating costs incurred by Coinmint in performing its services, and a variable fee calculated based on the profitability of the bitcoin mined during the relevant payment period, subject to uptime performance commitments. The agreement had an initial term of one year, after which it renews automatically for three-month periods until terminated in accordance with its terms. Materials and Suppliers We engage in high efficiency bitcoin mining by using ASICs. These specialized computers, often called mining rigs, have few manufacturers. Most of the machines we purchased this year were manufactured by Bitmain, one of the top three preeminent manufacturers of bitcoin mining rigs. Bitmain manufactures ASICs throughout Asia, and is headquarteredin China with subsidiaries in the United States, Singapore, Malaysia, Kazakhstan and other locations. In addition to ASICs, mining equipment includes networking equipment, power cords, racking, other specialized equipment, transformers and energy equipment. We rely on utility providers for our power needs. These utilities buy into local energy mixes to source power. We make every effort to establish our facilities in locations serviced by utilities that source a substantial portion of their energy from clean and renewable sources. We supplement a portion of the energy mix provided by our utility providers by purchasing renewable energy credits as the precise ratio of renewable energy in local energy mixes is not within our control. We have exposure to market fluctuations in energy prices through our power providers. We actively manage these risks through activities such as the deployment of advanced software solutions to increase unit efficiency and energy curtailment when appropriate. These energy market prices may be significantly impacted by market conditions and geopolitical events. Historically, our methodology and operations have been efficient and resilient enough to withstand market pressures and global events, but there can be no certainty that we will not be negatively affected in the future. While some macro-economic indicators available as of the date of this filing suggest that inflation may be slowing, inflationary pressures impact virtually all aspects of our materials and suppliers, including power prices, and are likely to impact our fiscal year 2024. Environmental Issues No significant pollution or other types of hazardous emission result from our direct operations and it is not anticipated that our operations will be materially affected by federal, state or local provisions concerning environmental controls. Our costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements have not historically been material. Starting in the fourth calendar quarter of 2021, we began to voluntarily purchase renewable energy credits to offset a portion of our energy consumption that is derived from non-renewable sources. We have engaged market professionals to enhance and build a comprehensive corporate social responsibility strategy, which we began executing in 2023. Some policymakers have expressed concerns over the high energy consumption of data centers, including bitcoin miners, and the ancillary effects on the environment from that energy consumption. Many media reports focus exclusively on the energy requirements of bitcoin mining and cite it as an environmental concern. We carefully monitor existing and pending climate change legislation, regulation, and international treaties or accords for any material effect on our business or markets that we serve, our operational results, our capital expenditures or our financial position. The table below describes the energy sources of our electricity use for each of our owned locations as of September 30, 2023, as reported to us by our power providers. Percentage of energy usage by each owned location (4) College Park, GA (3) Norcross, GA (3) Washington, GA Sandersville, GA Dalton, GA Non-Carbon (1) 88.0 % 100.0 % 68.4 % 63.5 % 21.0 % Carbon (2) 12.0 % 0.0 % 31.6 % 36.5 % 79.0 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) Non-carbon usage includes hydro, nuclear, wind and solar (2) Carbon usage includes coal and natural gas 9 (3) Norcross and College Park are offset by renewable energy credit purchases (4) Energy reported by grid operators as uncategorized is excluded from the percentages above We purchase energy from the electrical grid, and as a result our energy mix will vary from period to period based on a variety of factors including weather, temperature, demand, and how the grid operator ultimately procures and utilizes energy resources. The table breaks out energy sources as reported to the Company by the grid operators. Competition Bitcoin mining is a global activity. During fiscal year 2021, a majority of bitcoin mining occurred in China. After China banned bitcoin mining in May 2021, the center of mining moved to North America. Bitcoin mining by its nature is a competitive business; all miners compete for the same number of bitcoin rewards. Our competitors include large, publicly listed mining companies, large private mining companies, and, in some cases, independent, individual miners who pool resources. We define our principal competitors as other publicly traded bitcoin miners because there is widely available information about their operations. We believe our principal competitive advantages include our energy background, a combination of owned, operated, and co-located miners and facilities, our strategic use of the bitcoin we mine to fund operational growth and our commitment to responsible business practices, including building in communities that source renewable energy. Within North America, our major competitors include: Marathon Digital Holdings Riot Blockchain, Inc. Core Scientific, Inc. Bitfarms LTD. Iris Energy Limited Cipher Mining Inc. Terawulf Inc. In addition to the foregoing, we compete with other companies that focus all or a portion of their activities on mining activities at scale. We face significant competition in certain operational aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, the acquisition of new miners, obtaining low-cost electricity, obtaining clean energy sources, obtaining access to energy sites with reliable sources of power and evaluating new technology developments in the industry. Intellectual Property We do not currently own any patents in connection with our existing and planned bitcoin mining-related operations. We do rely, and expect to continue relying, upon trade secrets, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. Government Regulation Bitcoin mining is largely an unregulated activity at both the state and federal level. We anticipate that bitcoin mining will be a focus for increased regulation in the near- and long-term, and we cannot predict how future regulations may affect our business or operations. State regulation of bitcoin mining is important with respect to where we conduct our mining operations. The majority of our mining facilities are located in Georgia, which is one of the most favorable regulatory environments for bitcoin miners. However, we also have co-location operations in New York, which has generally been more aggressive in its regulation of bitcoin mining. Current New York regulation, including a recent moratorium on certain bitcoin mining operations that run on carbon-based power sources signed into law on November 22, 2022, in our view, does not impact our decision to operate our miners at the Coinmint facility in New York in the foreseeable future; however, if the regulatory landscape changes, we would evaluate whether to relocate our hosted miners to one of our facilities in Georgia or to other facilities outside of New York State, which could be costly and cause us to not be able to operate the miners while they are being relocated. 10 Further, in March 2022, the United States announced plans to establish a unified federal regulatory regime for cryptocurrency, and a group of United States Senators sent a letter to the United States Treasury Department (the Treasury) asking Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen to investigate the Treasurys ability to monitor and restrict the use of cryptocurrencies to evade sanctions imposed by the United States. We are unable to predict the impact that any new regulations may have on our business at the time of filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In August 2021, the chair of the SEC stated that he believed investors using digital asset trading platforms are not adequately protected, and that activities on the platforms can implicate the securities laws, commodities laws and banking laws, raising a number of issues related to protecting investors and consumers, guarding against illicit activity, and ensuring financial stability. The chair expressed a need for the SEC to have additional authority to prevent transactions, products, and platforms from falling between regulatory cracks, as well as for more resources to protect investors in this growing and volatile sector. The chair called for federal legislation centering on digital asset trading, lending, and decentralized finance platforms, seeking additional plenary authority to write rules for digital asset trading and lending. Since that time, Congress has considered a number of legislative proposals for regulating the digital asset industry. We continue to monitor and proactively engage in dialogue on legislative matters related to our industry. In addition, federal regulators have increased their enforcement activity in the digital asset industry. Federal agencies such as the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) have brought a number of enforcement actions, including actions against significant players in the industry. In fiscal year 2023, for example, the CFTC brought 47 actions involving conduct related to digital asset commodities, representing more than 49 percent of all actions filed by the CFTC during that time period. This increased enforcement by agencies like the SEC and CFTC has resulted in part from the failure of FTX Trading Ltd. (FTX) in November 2022 and the resulting market turmoil that failure caused. While these statements tend to focus more on digital asset exchanges and other players in the digital asset space and less on bitcoin miners, the failure of large exchanges may impact the adoption and value of bitcoin. Additionally, because we sell our bitcoin on exchanges, we may also be potentially impacted by exchange failures in that respect. For those reasons, we carefully vet the exchanges we use for adequate compliance with U.S. laws as well as liquidity, using the information available to us, but we cannot be certain that we will be able to avoid the negative effects of a large exchange failure. As the regulatory and legal environment evolves, we may become subject to new laws, such as further regulation by the SEC, CFTC and other agencies, which may affect our mining and other activities. For additional discussion regarding our belief about the potential risks existing and future regulation pose to our business, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors beginning on page 13 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Cybersecurity Our share of bitcoins mined from our pool are initially received by us in wallets we control, which are maintained by Coinbase Inc. (Coinbase), a U.S.-based digital assets exchange. We sell portions of the bitcoin we mine and utilize hot wallets to hold this bitcoin immediately prior to selling for working capital purposes. We hold any remainder of our bitcoin in cold storage. Bitcoin in cold wallets are reconciled monthly and are considered on-chain. In other words, the cold wallets have a unique blockchain address and their activity is tracked through the blockchain by the Company if there are any reconciling issues. For security reasons, Coinbase does not disclose the geographic location of its cold storage wallets to its customers. Our custody agreement with Coinbase provides that Coinbase will obtain and maintain at its sole expense insurance coverage in such types and amounts as are commercially reasonable for the custodial services provided under the custody agreement. We do not carry additional insurance coverage on our bitcoin holdings. Further we are not aware of any insurance providers or other third parties (e.g. auditors) having inspection or other verification rights associated with digital assets held in storage. We recognize the importance of assessing, identifying and managing material risks associated with cybersecurity threats, as such term is defined in Item 106(a) of Regulation S-K. Bitcoins we mine or hold for our own account may be subject to loss, theft or restriction on access. Hackers or malicious actors may launch attacks to steal, compromise or secure bitcoins, such as by attacking the bitcoin network source code, exchange miners, third-party platforms (including Coinbase), cold and hot storage locations or software, or by other means. We may be in control and possession of substantial holdings of bitcoin, and as we increase in size, we may become a more appealing target of 11 hackers, malware, cyberattacks or other security threats. We have an established IT Steering Committee, formed of senior Company leadership, which evaluates all cybersecurity matters, with the purpose of meeting at least semi-annually and providing recommendations with respect to our information technology use and protection, including, but not limited to, data governance, privacy, compliance and cybersecurity. We have implemented controls, policies, procedures and technological safeguards to maintain and protect the integrity, continuous operation, redundancy and security of our IT systems and data that we believe to be reasonably consistent with industry standards and practices, or as required by applicable regulatory standards. We are also required to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations and contractual obligations relating to the privacy and security of our IT systems and data and to the protection of such IT systems and data from unauthorized use, access, misappropriation or modification. Insurance We have property insurance coverage for our bitcoin miners under a multi-tiered insurance program with 18 different underwriters for a total of $100,000 in limits. This insurance coverage covers all the Companys bitcoin miners and includes Earthquake/Flood insurance with a $5,000 limit and Storm/Wind/Hail coverage with a limit of 3% Value at Risk of Time of Loss. We also maintain equipment breakdown coverage, with a property damage limit of $100,000. We do not maintain Business Interruption Coverage, which is currently not being provided by underwriters to any bitcoin mining companies. The policies also exclude coverage of our bitcoin holdings and cybersecurity coverage. We engage our insurance broker annually to solicit underwriters to provide proposals to renew our current coverage or update our policies to meet our needs, prior to the policies expiration on November 1st of each year. Human Resources We believe that our future success depends, in no small part, on our ability to continue to attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel. As of September 30, 2023, we had 131 staff members, all located in the United States, and 130 of which were full time. We believe that we have adequate personnel and resources with the specialized skills required to carry out our operations successfully. Employees participate in equity incentive plans and receive generous compensation in the form of salary and benefits. We continually seek to hire and retain talented professionals, although the competition for such personnel in our segments is significant. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe we have a strong and engaging relationship with our employees. We cultivate trust and transparency among our employees, the communities we operate in, and the people around the world who depend on bitcoin as we jointly strive to build the infrastructure of the future. Discontinued Operations As of June 30, 2022, we deemed our energy operations to be discontinued operations due to our strategic decision to strictly focus on bitcoin mining operations and to divest or dispose of the remaining energy assets. Through our discontinued operations segment, we previously provided energy solutions through our wholly owned subsidiaries CleanSpark LLC, CleanSpark II, LLC, CleanSpark Critical Power Systems, Inc., GridFabric, LLC, and ATL Solar Watt Solutions, Inc. We have since sold or disposed of the majority of our software and intellectual property assets related to the Energy Segment (including mPulse, mVoult and GridFabric LLC) and sold all additional inventory and other assets. Other Business Activities Through our wholly owned subsidiary ATL Data Centers LLC ("ATL"), we previously provided traditional data center services to a small number of remaining clients, such as providing customers with rack space, power and equipment, and offered several cloud services including virtual services, virtual storage, and data backup services. As of September 30, 2023, ATL no longer provides data center services to external customers and all capacity of the location is now dedicated to bitcoin mining activities. 12 Company Information CleanSpark, Inc. was incorporated in 1987 and is headquartered in Henderson, Nevada. It is incorporated in Nevada. The Company was formerly known as Stratean Inc. and changed its name to CleanSpark, Inc. in November 2016. We maintain a corporate website at: www.cleanspark.com. The contents of our website are not incorporated in, or otherwise to be regarded as part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We file reports with the SEC, which are available on our website free of charge. These reports include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings on Form 3, Form 4, and Form 5, and other related filings and exhibits, each of which is provided on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such materials with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including the Company. Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks that may materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves risk. In evaluating an investment in shares of our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, or if additional risks and uncertainties later materialize that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, then our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our shares. The risks discussed below include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risk Factors Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our common stock speculative or risky. This summary does not address all of the risks we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this risk factor summary, and other risks that we face, can be found below and should be carefully considered, together with other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business our dependence on the price of bitcoin to achieve profitability, which has historically been volatile; our limited operating history and history of operating losses and negative cash flow; volatile and unpredictable cycles in the emerging and evolving industries in which we operate; competition in the markets in which we operate; our reliance on and ability to manage our construction contractors and suppliers to meet our expansion efforts in keeping with planned timelines and cost estimates; our reliance on our management team, and any failure by management to properly manage growth; future strategic acquisitions and other arrangements that we engage in, which could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders, reduce our financial resources and harm our operating results; our ability to timely complete our future strategic growth initiatives or within our anticipated cost; increased compliance costs as a result of our strategic acquisitions; our need for financing in the future to sustain and expand our operations and any inability to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, or at all; we maintain our cash at financial institutions, often in balances that exceed federally insured limits; the uncertain impact of geopolitical and economic events on the demand for bitcoin; our exposure to pricing risk and volatility associated with the value of bitcoin because we do not hedge our investment in bitcoin; 13 the development and acceptance of competing blockchain platforms or technologies; the reward for successfully solving a block will halve in the future, and its value may not adjust to compensate us for the reduction in the rewards we receive from our mining efforts; our reliance on a third-party mining pool service provider for our mining revenue payouts; forks in the bitcoin network; the open-source structure of the bitcoin network protocol and any failure to properly monitor and upgrade the protocol; the possibility that banks and financial institutions may not provide services to businesses that engage in cryptocurrency-related activities; the lack of limitations of FDIC or SIPC protections for the bitcoin we hold; bitcoins we mine or hold for our own account may be subject to loss, theft, or restriction on access; potential actions of malicious actors or botnets; the loss or destruction of private keys required to access our bitcoins and potential data loss relating to our bitcoins; potential failures of digital asset exchanges and custodians; risks due to disruptions in the digital asset markets, including, but not limited to, the risk from depreciation in our stock price, financing risk, risk of increased losses or impairments in our investments or other assets, risks of legal proceedings and government investigations, and risks from price declines or price volatility of digital assets; inadequate sources of recovery if our bitcoin holdings are lost, stolen or destroyed; our ability to adopt technology in response to changing security needs or trends and reliance on a third party, Coinbase, for custody of our bitcoin holdings; security threats to us; a loss of confidence in our security systems, or a breach of our security systems; the irreversibility of incorrect or fraudulent bitcoin transactions; potential Internet disruptions; the limited rights of legal recourse available to us following any loss of our bitcoins; the sale of our bitcoins to pay for expenses a time of low bitcoin prices; the possibility that a cryptocurrency other than bitcoin could be more desirable to the digital asset user base; the possibility that our mining costs may exceed our mining revenues; damage to the properties included in our mining operation and potential inability to get adequate insurance coverage for same; our need for significant electrical power to support our mining operations; increased scrutiny and changing expectations from stakeholders with respect to ESG practices and the impacts of climate change; our operations and profitability may be adversely affected by competition from other methods of investing in cryptocurrencies; the possibility that large holders of bitcoin may sell bitcoin into the market in large amounts all at once, thereby impacting the growth of the price of bitcoin; the potential that, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by a custodian, bitcoin held in custody could be determined to be property of a bankruptcy estate and we could be considered a general unsecured creditor thereof; risks related to technological obsolescence, the vulnerability of the global supply chain for cryptocurrency hardware disruption and difficulty in obtaining new hardware; the limited precedent for financial accounting of digital assets, and the possibility of future accounting requirements for transactions involving digital assets; the possibility of our failure to grow our hashrate; risks arising from pandemics, epidemics or an outbreak of diseases, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; global economic conditions, including continuing or worsening inflationary issues and associated changes in monetary policy and potential economic recession, and geopolitical events such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the subsequent imposition of sanctions as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; 14 potential product defect or liability suits, or any recall of our products, particularly those in the discontinued operations; and our limited insurance protection exposes us and our stockholders to the risk of loss of our bitcoin for which no person is liable. Risks Related to Governmental Regulation and Enforcement Operations potential changes in laws and regulations applicable to mining bitcoin, bitcoin itself or interpretations thereof, including, without limitation, banking regulations and securities regulations and regulations governing mining activities, both in the U.S. and in other countries; we may incur additional compliance costs if deemed subject to the Commodity Exchange Act; the risk that the SEC or another regulatory body considers bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency to be a security; changing environmental regulation and public energy policy; future developments regarding the treatment of digital assets for U.S. federal income and applicable state, local and non-U.S. tax purposes; and potential exposure to specifically designated nationals or blocked persons as a result of our interactions with the bitcoin network. Risks Related to Our Securities the price of our common stock may be volatile and could fluctuate widely in price; any future issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect holders of our common stock, as shares of preferred stock may have additional rights, preferences and privileges as compared to our common stock; we are currently the subject of a shareholder class action, and may be subject to shareholder litigation in the future; our costs of defending such litigation, arbitration and other proceedings and any adverse outcome of such litigation, arbitration or other proceeding may have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations; we have financed our strategic growth primarily by issuing new shares of our common stock, which dilutes the ownership interests of current stockholders; we have not, and do not presently intend to, pay dividends on shares of our common stock; if securities or industry analysts do not publish or do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline; our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations; significant costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, and the possible failure to comply with internal control over financial reporting requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; our management has identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future; we are an accelerated filer and may no longer provide scaled disclosures as a smaller reporting company beginning with our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending December 31, 2023, which will increase our costs and demands on management; and provisions in the Nevada Revised Statutes and our bylaws could make it very difficult for an investor to bring any legal actions against our directors or officers for violations of their fiduciary duties or could require us to pay any amounts incurred by our directors or officers in any such actions. Risks Related to Our Business Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent on the price of bitcoin, which has historically been volatile. Our primary focus on our bitcoin mining operations and our associated expansion efforts is largely based on our assumptions regarding the future value of bitcoin, which has been subject to significant historical volatility and may be subject to influence from malicious actors, real or perceived scarcity, political, economic, and regulatory conditions, and speculation making its price more volatile. 15 It is difficult to accurately predict the future market price of bitcoin, which may inhibit consumer trust in and market acceptance of bitcoin as a means of exchange, thereby potentially limiting the future adoption of bitcoin and resulting in our assumptions proving to be incorrect. If our assumptions prove incorrect and the future price of bitcoin is not sufficiently high, our income from our bitcoin mining operations may not exceed our costs, and our operations may never achieve profitability. We have a limited operating history and a history of operating losses and negative cash flow, and we may never achieve consistent profitability. Our limited operating history, in particular our recent entry into the bitcoin mining business, makes it difficult to evaluate our business and predict our future results of operations. Although we have achieved profitable quarters in the past, to date, we have not maintained consistent profitability from period to period, and no assurances can be made that we will achieve consistent profitability in the near future, if ever. From the Companys inception through September 30, 2023, we sustained $332,643 in cumulative net losses, and we had a net loss from our continuing operations for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023 of $132,160. We have generated these losses as we execute our business plan and expand on our bitcoin mining activities as bitcoin prices have at times been in a bear market. The extent to which we will continue to recognize losses in our continuing operations is dependent on bitcoin prices, among other factors. Our future success is difficult to predict because we operate in emerging and evolving industries that are subject to volatile and unpredictable cycles. The bitcoin mining and related industries are emerging and evolving, which may lead to period-to-period variability in our operating results and may make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes in our business environment or to accurately assess where we are positioned within a business cycle, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to successfully compete. We compete in the highly competitive market for certain operational aspects of our bitcoin mining business, including, but not limited to, the acquisition of new miners, obtaining the lowest cost of electricity, obtaining clean energy sources, obtaining access to energy sites with reliable sources of power and evaluating new technology developments in the industry. Evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and product obsolescence impact the market and its various participants, including us. Our competitors include many domestic and foreign companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, which may cause us to be at a competitive disadvantage. The success of our bitcoin mining business will be dependent upon our ability to purchase additional miners, adapt to changes in technology in the industry, and to obtain sufficient energy at reasonable prices, amongst other things. A significant part of our success will depend on our reliance on and ability to manage our construction contractors and suppliers, including mining equipment suppliers, in order to meet our expansion efforts in keeping with planned timelines and cost estimates, and any failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and relations with our customers. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for the purchase and delivery of our miners to support our bitcoin mining operations. There can be no assurance that such key suppliers and manufacturers will provide components, products or miners in a timely and cost-efficient manner or otherwise meet our needs and expectations. Any disruption in the operations of such key suppliers or manufacturers could delay our ability to expand our bitcoin mining operations. Our ability to manage such relationships and timely replace suppliers and manufacturers, if necessary, is critical to our success. Our failure to timely replace our manufacturers and suppliers, should that become necessary, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, we depend on Bitmain, MicroBT, Canaan Crypt Solutions and Sunnyside Digital for our mining rigs and any change in their ability to manufacture or distribute and deliver these products could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Supply chain disruptions resulting from factors such as inflation, labor supply and shipping container shortages and the COVID-19 pandemic have impacted, and may continue to impact, us and our third-party manufacturers and suppliers. We are reliant on third parties for our expansion efforts, including construction contractors and suppliers of infrastructure, to provide accurate 16 estimates and timelines. If those parties experience delays, cannot access adequate capital, or are exposed to inflation pressures or supply chain disruptions, our expansion efforts will be similarly impacted. We rely heavily on our management team, whose continued service and performance is critical to our future success. Any failure by management to properly manage growth, including hiring and retaining competent and skilled management and other personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently have three executive officers our Chief Executive Officer and President, Zachary Bradford, our Chief Financial Officer, Gary Vecchiarelli, and S. Matthew Schultz, our Executive Chairman who are responsible for our management functions and are responsible for strategic development, financing and other critical functions. Our future success depends significantly on the continued service and performance of our existing management team. The departure, death, disability or other extended loss of services of any member of our management team, particularly with little or no notice, could cause delays on projects, frustrate our growth prospects and could have an adverse impact on our industry relationships, our project exploration and development programs, other aspects of our business and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects. Our success, growth prospects and ability to capitalize on market opportunities also depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire, motivate and retain qualified managerial personnel, including additional senior members of management. Our growth may be constrained by resource limitations as competitors and customers compete for increasingly scarce human capital resources. The demand for professionals familiar with bitcoin mining and other skilled workers is currently high. Our competitors may be able to offer a work environment with higher compensation or more opportunities than we can. Any new personnel we hire may not be or become as productive as we expect, as we may face challenges in adequately or appropriately integrating them into our workforce and culture. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, our ability to successfully implement our business plan, grow our company and maintain or expand our mining operations may be adversely affected, and the costs of doing so may increase, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our planned expansion could also place significant demands on our management, operations, systems, accounting, internal controls and financial resources. If we experience difficulties in any of these areas, we may not be able to expand our business successfully or effectively manage our growth. Any failure by management to manage growth and to respond to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have engaged in, and in the future may engage in, strategic acquisitions and other arrangements that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders, reduce our financial resources and harm our operating results. We have previously engaged in strategic transactions, including acquisitions of companies, technologies and personnel, such as our recent asset and business acquisitions related to our Dalton, GA, Sandersville, GA and Washington, GA facilities, and, as part of our growth strategy, in the future, we may seek additional opportunities to grow our mining operations, including through purchases of miners and facilities from other operating companies, including companies in financial distress. Our ability to grow through future acquisitions will depend on the availability of, and our ability to identify, suitable acquisition and investment opportunities at an acceptable cost, our ability to compete effectively to attract those opportunities and the availability of financing to complete acquisitions. Future acquisitions may require us to issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders percentage ownership, assume or otherwise be subject to liabilities of an acquired company, record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, incur large acquisition and integration costs, immediate write-offs, and restructuring and other related expenses and become subject to litigation. The benefits of an acquisition may also take considerable time to develop, and we cannot be certain that any particular acquisition will produce the intended benefits in a timely manner or to the extent anticipated or at all. We may experience difficulties integrating the operations, technologies and personnel of an acquired company or be subjected to liability for the targets pre-acquisition activities or operations as a successor in interest. Such integration may divert managements attention from normal daily operations of our business. Future acquisitions may also expose us to 17 potential risks, including risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, especially when competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, the possibility of insufficient revenues to offset the expenses we incur in connection with an acquisition and the potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees and suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. We may not be able to timely complete our future strategic growth initiatives or within our anticipated cost estimates, if at all. As part of our efforts to grow our hashrate and remain competitive in the market, we have acquired facilities, entered into new and re-negotiated purchased power agreements and invested in additional new and used mining equipment. We are also reliant on third parties for our expansion efforts, including construction contractors and providers of infrastructure equipment, who may be burdened by delays in manufacturing, supply chain problems, less access to capital due to macro-economic conditions, or inflation. This could increase our costs and/or delay our expansion and acquisition efforts. If we are unable to complete our planned expansions or acquisitions on schedule and within our anticipated cost estimates, our deployment of newly purchased miners may be delayed, which could affect our competitiveness and our results of operation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market price for our securities. We may experience increased compliance costs as a result of future strategic acquisitions. Future strategic acquisitions could carry substantial compliance burdens, which may limit our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, and which may require our management and personnel to shift their focus to such compliance burdens and away from their other functions. Such increased costs and compliance burdens could affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of such strategic acquisitions, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer as a result. In the future, we may require additional financing to sustain and expand our operations, and we may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects. Our ability to operate profitably and to grow our business is dependent upon, among other things, generating sufficient revenue from our operations and, when and if needed, obtaining financing. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues to operate and/or expand our business, we will be required to raise additional capital to fund operating deficits (if applicable) and the growth of our business, pursue our business plans and to finance our operating activities, including through equity or debt financings, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain capital through sales of bitcoin may also be impacted by the volatility in the price of bitcoin. We have previously raised capital to finance our strategic growth of our business through public offerings of our common stock, including through our at-the-market offering program, and we expect to need to raise additional capital through similar public offerings to finance the completion of current and future expansion initiatives. Utilizing those sources may be more challenging in the current financial market conditions, in particular where trading volume is diminished. We may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could impair our growth and adversely impact our existing operations. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, stockholder ownership interest in the Company may be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect rights as a stockholder. Debt and equity financings, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as redeeming our shares of common stock, making investments, incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. We maintain our cash at financial institutions, often in balances that exceed federally insured limits. We maintain our cash at financial institutions, often in balances that exceed federally insured limits. We maintain the majority of our cash and cash equivalents in accounts at banking institutions in the United States that we believe are of high quality. Cash held in these accounts often exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) 18 insurance limits. If such banking institutions were to fail, we could lose all or a portion of the amounts held in excess of such insurance limitations. The FDIC recently took control of three such banking institutions, Silicon Valley Bank on March 10, 2023, Signature Bank on March 12, 2023 and First Republic Bank on May 1, 2023. While we did not have an account at any of these three banks, in the event of the failure of any of the financial institutions where we maintain our cash and cash equivalents, there can be no assurance that we would be able to access uninsured funds in a timely manner or at all. Any inability to access or delay in accessing these funds could adversely affect our business and financial position. Our ability to open accounts at certain financial institutions is limited by the policies of such financial institutions to not accept clients that are in the digital asset industry. The impact of geopolitical and economic events on the demand for bitcoin is uncertain. Geopolitical crises may trigger large-scale purchases of bitcoin, which could rapidly increase the price of bitcoin. This may, however, also increase the likelihood of a subsequent price swing in the opposite direction as crisis-driven purchasing behavior dissipates, ultimately decreasing the value of bitcoin or any other digital asset in our possession. Such risks are similar to the risks of purchasing commodities in generally uncertain times, such as the risk of purchasing, holding or selling gold. Alternatively, global crises and economic downturns may discourage investment in bitcoin and digital assets in general as investors shift their investments towards less volatile asset classes. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. The value of bitcoin has historically been subject to wide swings. Because we do not currently hedge our investment in bitcoin and do not intend to for the foreseeable future, we are directly exposed to bitcoins price volatility and surrounding risks. The market price of one bitcoin in our principal market ranged from approximately $15,460 to $31,862 during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023 and ranged from approximately $17,567 to $69,000 during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022. While bitcoin prices are determined primarily using data from various exchanges, over-the-counter markets and derivative platforms, they have historically been volatile and are impacted by a variety of factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the worldwide growth in the adoption and use of bitcoin, the maintenance and development of the software protocol of the bitcoin network, changes in consumer demographics and public tastes, fraudulent or illegitimate actors, real or perceived scarcity, and political, economic, regulatory or other conditions. Furthermore, pricing may be the result of, and may continue to result in, speculation regarding future appreciation in the value of bitcoin, or our share price, making prices more volatile. Currently, we do not use a formula or specific methodology to determine whether or when we will sell bitcoin that we hold, or the number of bitcoins we will sell. Rather, decisions to hold or sell bitcoins are currently determined by management by analyzing forecasts and monitoring the market in real time. Such decisions, however well-informed, may result in untimely sales and even losses, adversely affecting an investment in us. At this time, we do not anticipate engaging in any hedging activities related to our holding of bitcoin; this would expose us to substantial decreases in the price of bitcoin. The development and acceptance of competing blockchain platforms or technologies may cause consumers to use alternative distributed ledgers or other alternatives. The development and acceptance of competing blockchain platforms or technologies may cause consumers to abandon bitcoin. As we exclusively mine bitcoin, and expect to exclusively mine bitcoin in the future, we could face difficulty adapting to emergent digital ledgers, blockchains or alternatives thereto. This could prevent us from realizing the anticipated profits from our investments. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account and therefore harm investors. Bitcoin is subject to halving; the reward for successfully solving a block will halve several times in the future and its value may not adjust to compensate us for the reduction in the rewards we receive from our mining efforts. Halving is a process designed to control the overall supply and reduce the risk of inflation in cryptocurrencies using a Proof-of-Work consensus algorithm. In an event referred to as bitcoin halving, the bitcoin reward for mining any 19 block is cut in half. For example, the mining reward for bitcoin declined from 12.5 to 6.25 bitcoin on May 11, 2020. This process is scheduled to occur once every 210,000 blocks. It is estimated that bitcoin will next halve in April 2024 and then approximately every four years thereafter until the total amount of bitcoin rewards issued reaches 21 million, which is expected to occur around 2140. Once 21 million bitcoin are generated, the network will stop producing more. Currently, there are more than 19 million bitcoin in circulation. While bitcoin prices have had a history of price fluctuations around halving events, there is no guarantee that any such price change will be favorable or would compensate for the reduction in mining reward. If a corresponding and proportionate increase in the price of bitcoin does not follow these anticipated halving events, the revenue from our mining operations would decrease, and we may not have an adequate incentive to continue mining and may cease mining operations altogether, which may adversely affect an investment in us. Furthermore, such reductions in bitcoin rewards for uncovering blocks may result in a reduction in the aggregate hashrate of the bitcoin network as the incentive for miners decreases. Miners ceasing operations would reduce the collective processing power on the network, which would adversely affect the confirmation process for transactions and make the bitcoin network more vulnerable to malicious actors or botnets obtaining control in excess of 50% of the processing power active on the blockchain. Such events may adversely affect our activities and an investment in us. Our reliance on a third-party mining pool service provider for our mining revenue payouts may adversely affect an investment in us. We currently rely on Foundry Digitals open access mining pool ("pool") that supports bitcoin to receive our mining rewards and fees from the network. Our pool has the sole discretion to modify the terms of our agreement at any time, and, therefore, our future rights and relationship with our pool may change. In general, mining pools allow miners to combine their computing and processing power, increasing their chances of solving a block and getting rewarded by the bitcoin network. The rewards, distributed proportionally to our contribution to the pools overall mining power, are distributed by the pool operator. Should our pool's operator systems suffer downtime due to a cyber-attack, software malfunction or other similar issues, our ability to mine and receive revenue will be negatively impacted. Furthermore, while we receive daily reports from our pool detailing the total processing power provided to the pool and the proportion of that total processing power we provided to determine the distribution of rewards to us, we are dependent on the accuracy of our pools record keeping.Therefore, we have little means of recourse against our pool's operator if we determine the proportion of the reward paid out to us by the mining pool operator is incorrect, other than leaving the pools. If we are unable to consistently obtain accurate proportionate rewards from our pool, we may experience reduced rewards for our efforts, which would have an adverse effect on our business and operations. Forks in the bitcoin network may occur in the future, which may affect the value of bitcoins held by us. A small group of contributors can propose refinements or improvements to the bitcoin networks source code that alter the protocols and software that govern the bitcoin network and the properties of bitcoin, including the irreversibility of transactions and limitations on the mining of new bitcoin. This is known as a fork. In the event a developer or group of developers proposes modifications to the bitcoin network that are not accepted by a majority of miners and users, but that are nonetheless accepted by a substantial plurality of miners and users, two or more competing and incompatible blockchain implementations could result. This is known as a hard fork. The value of bitcoin after the creation of a fork is subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, the value of the fork product, market reaction to the creation of the fork product and the occurrence of forks in the future. As such, existing forks, such as Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin Gold, and future forks may have a negative effect on bitcoins value and may adversely affect an investment in us. The open-source structure of the bitcoin network protocol means that the contributors to the protocol are generally not directly compensated for their contributions in maintaining and developing the protocol. A failure to properly monitor and upgrade the protocol could damage the bitcoin network and an investment in us. As an open-source project, bitcoin does not generate revenues for its contributors, and contributors are generally not compensated for maintaining and updating the bitcoin network protocol. The lack of guaranteed financial incentives for contributors to maintain or develop the bitcoin network and the lack of guaranteed resources to adequately address 20 emerging issues with the bitcoin network may reduce incentives to address the issues adequately or in a timely manner. To the extent that contributors may fail to adequately update and maintain the bitcoin network protocol, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. Banks and financial institutions may not provide banking services, or may cut off services, to businesses that engage in cryptocurrency-related activities. A number of companies that engage in bitcoin and/or other cryptocurrency-related activities have been unable to find banks or financial institutions that are willing to provide them with bank accounts and other services. Similarly, a number of companies and individuals or businesses associated with cryptocurrencies may have had and may continue to have their existing bank accounts closed or services discontinued with financial institutions. To the extent that such events may happen to us, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. Bitcoins held by us are not subject to FDIC or SIPC protections. We do not hold our bitcoins with a banking institution or a member of the FDIC or the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), and, therefore, our bitcoins are not subject to the protections enjoyed by depositors with FDIC or SIPC member institutions. As a result, we may suffer a loss with respect to our bitcoins that are not covered by insurance, and we may not be able to recover any of our carried value in these bitcoins if they are lost or stolen or suffer significant and sustained reduction in conversion spot price. If we are not otherwise able to recover damages in connection with these losses, our business and results of operations may suffer, which may have a material negative impact on our stock price. Bitcoins we mine or hold for our own account may be subject to loss, theft or restriction on access. There is a risk that some or all of our bitcoins could be lost or stolen. Bitcoins are stored in and accessed by cryptocurrency sites commonly referred to as wallets. A hot wallet refers to any cryptocurrency wallet that is connected to the Internet. Generally, hot wallets are easier to set up and access than wallets in cold storage, but they are also more susceptible to hackers and other technical vulnerabilities. Cold storage refers to any cryptocurrency wallet that is not connected to the Internet. Cold storage is generally more secure than hot storage, but is not ideal for quick or regular transactions. When we keep our bitcoin in cold storage, we may experience lag time in our ability to respond to market fluctuations in the price of our cryptocurrency assets. We currently mine bitcoin by contributing to and benefiting from our pools processing power. Our share of bitcoins mined from our pool is initially received by us in wallets we control, which are maintained by Coinbase. We currently sell the majority of the bitcoin we mine and utilize hot wallets to hold this bitcoin immediately prior to selling for working capital purposes. We hold any remainder of our bitcoin in cold storage. Bitcoins we mine or hold for our own account may be subject to loss, theft or restriction on access.Hackers or malicious actors may launch attacks to steal, compromise or secure bitcoins, such as by attacking the bitcoin network source code, exchange miners, third-party platforms (including Coinbase), cold and hot storage locations or software, or by other means. We may be in control and possession of substantial holdings of bitcoin, and as we increase in size, we may become a more appealing target of hackers, malware, cyber-attacks or other security threats. Any of these events may adversely affect our operations and, consequently, our investments and profitability. If a malicious actor or botnet obtains control of more than 50% of the processing power on the bitcoin network, such actor or botnet could manipulate the network to adversely affect us, which would adversely affect an investment in us. If a malicious actor or botnet, a collection of computers controlled by networked software coordinating the actions of the computers, obtains over 50% of the processing power dedicated to mining bitcoin, such actor or botnet may be able to construct fraudulent blocks or prevent certain transactions from completing in a timely manner, or at all. The malicious actor or botnet could control, exclude or modify the order of transactions, though it could not generate new units or transactions using such control. The malicious actor or botnet could also double-spend, or spend the same 21 bitcoin in more than one transaction, or it could prevent transactions from being validated. In certain instances, reversing any fraudulent or malicious changes made to the bitcoin blockchain may not be possible. Although there are no known reports of malicious activity or control of blockchains achieved through controlling over 50% of the processing power on the bitcoin network, it is believed that certain mining pools may have exceeded, and could exceed, the 50% threshold on the bitcoin network. This possibility creates a greater risk that a single mining pool could exert authority over the validation of bitcoin transactions. To the extent that the bitcoin ecosystem, and the administrators of mining pools, do not have adequate controls and responses in place, the risk of a malicious actor obtaining control of the processing power may increase. If such an event were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account and harm investors. The loss or destruction of private keys required to access our bitcoins may be irreversible. Our loss of access to our private keys or our experience of a data loss relating to our bitcoins could adversely affect an investment in us. Bitcoins may only be controlled by the possessor of both the unique public and private keys relating to the local or online digital wallet in which they are held. We publish the public key relating to digital wallets in use when we verify the receipt or transfers of bitcoins to and from our wallets and disseminate such information into the network on an anonymous basis, but we safeguard the private keys relating to such digital wallets. Digital asset exchanges, such as Coinbase, where we hold our bitcoin, engage in similar practices. To the extent such private keys are lost, destroyed or otherwise compromised, we will be unable to access our bitcoins and such private keys may not be capable of being restored by any network. Any loss of private keys relating to digital wallets used to store our bitcoins whether by us or digital asset exchanges where we hold our bitcoin, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. The digital asset exchanges on which cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin, trade are relatively new and largely unregulated, and thus may be exposed to fraud and failure. Such failures may result in a reduction in the price of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies and can adversely affect an investment in us. Digital asset exchanges on which cryptocurrencies trade are relatively new and, in most cases, largely unregulated. Many digital exchanges do not provide the public with significant information regarding their ownership structure, management teams, corporate practices or regulatory compliance. As a result, the marketplace may lose confidence in, or may experience problems relating to, cryptocurrency exchanges, including prominent exchanges handling a significant portion of the volume of digital asset trading. A perceived lack of stability in the digital asset exchange market and the closure or temporary shutdown of digital asset exchanges due to business failure, hackers or malware, government-mandated regulation, or fraud, may reduce confidence in digital asset networks and result in greater volatility in cryptocurrency values. These potential consequences of a digital asset exchanges failure could adversely affect an investment in us. We may face several risks due to disruptions in the digital asset markets, including but not limited to the risk from depreciation in our stock price, financing risk, risk of increased losses or impairments in our investments or other assets, risks of legal proceedings and government investigations, and risks from price declines or price volatility of digital assets. In the second half of 2022 and beginning of 2023, some of the well-known digital asset market participants, including Celsius Network, Voyager Digital Ltd., Three Arrows Capital and Genesis Global Holdco LLC, declared bankruptcy, resulting in a loss of confidence in participants of the digital asset ecosystem and negative publicity surrounding digital assets more broadly. In November 2022, FTX, the third-largest digital asset exchange by volume at the time, halted customer withdrawals, and shortly thereafter, FTX and its subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy. In response to these and other similar events (including significant activity by various regulators regarding digital asset activities, such as enforcement actions, against a variety of digital asset entities, including Coinbase and Binance), the digital asset markets, including the market for bitcoin specifically, have experienced extreme price volatility and several other entities in the digital asset industry have been, and may continue to be, negatively affected, further undermining confidence in the digital asset markets and in bitcoin. These events have also negatively impacted the liquidity of the digital asset markets as certain entities affiliated with FTX and platforms such as Coinbase and 22 Binance have engaged, or may continue to engage, in significant trading activity. If the liquidity of the digital asset markets continues to be negatively impacted by these events, digital asset prices (including the price of bitcoin) may continue to experience significant volatility and confidence in the digital asset markets may be further undermined. These events are continuing to develop and it is not possible to predict at this time all of the risks that they may pose to us, our service providers or on the digital asset industry as a whole. Although we had no direct exposure to FTX or any of the above-mentioned cryptocurrency companies (with the exception of Coinbase, which is discussed in Potential that, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by a custodian, bitcoin held in custody could be determined to be property of a bankruptcy estate and we could be considered a general unsecured creditor thereof), nor any material assets that may not be recovered or may otherwise be lost or misappropriated due to the above-mentioned bankruptcies, the failure or insolvency of large exchanges like FTX or other significant players in the digital asset space may cause the price of bitcoin to fall and decrease confidence in the ecosystem, which could adversely affect an investment in us. Such market volatility has had a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, and we expect our results of operations to continue to be affected by bitcoins price as the results of our operations are significantly tied to the price of bitcoin. If we do not continue adjusting our short-term strategy to optimize our operating efficiency in the current dynamic market conditions, such market conditions could have a further negative result on our business, prospects or operations. We may not have adequate sources of recovery if our bitcoin holdings are lost, stolen or destroyed. We rely on Coinbase to facilitate the custody of our bitcoins. If our bitcoin holdings are lost, stolen or destroyed under circumstances rendering a party, including Coinbase, liable to us, the responsible party may not have the financial resources sufficient to satisfy our claim. For example, as to a particular event of loss, the only source of recovery for us might be limited, to the extent identifiable, to other responsible third parties (e.g., a thief or terrorist), any of which may not have the financial resources (including liability insurance coverage) to satisfy a valid claim of ours. While Coinbase maintains insurance coverage of such types and amounts as Coinbase asserts to be commercially reasonable for its custodial services provided under the Companys custody agreement with Coinbase, including certain commercial crime insurance of limited aggregate principal amount which covers losses stemming from fraud, security breach, hack and asset theft, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect the Company against all losses of its bitcoin holdings held in custody with Coinbase, whether or not stemming from security breaches, cyberattacks or other types of unlawful activity. See Our limited insurance protection exposes us and our stockholders to the risk of loss of our bitcoin for which no person is liable. Our ability to adopt technology in response to changing security needs or trends and reliance on a third party, Coinbase, for custody pose a challenge to the safekeeping of our bitcoin holdings. The history of digital asset exchanges has shown that exchanges and large holders of digital assets must adapt to technological change in order to secure and safeguard their digital assets. All of the bitcoin we hold is held in either cold or hot storage by Coinbase. We rely on Coinbases security systems, derived from established, industry-best practices,to safeguard our bitcoin holdings from theft, loss, destruction or other issues relating to hackers and technological attack. We believe that we may become a more appealing target of security threats as the size of our bitcoin holdings grow. To the extent that either Coinbase or we are unable to identify and mitigate or stop new security threats, our bitcoin holdings may be subject to theft, loss, destruction or other attack, which could adversely affect an investment in us. To the extent that Coinbase is no longer able to safeguard our assets, we would be at risk of loss if safeguarding protocols fail. Security threats to us could result in a loss of our bitcoin holdings or damage to our reputation and brand, each of which could adversely affect an investment in us. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have been a prevalent concern in the digital asset exchange markets, for example since the launch of the bitcoin network. Any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses, could harm our business operations or result in loss of our bitcoin holdings. Any breach of our infrastructure could result in damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect an investment in us. Furthermore, we believe that, as our assets grow, we may become a more appealing target for security threats such as hackers and malware. 23 We rely on Coinbases security systems, derived from established, industry-best practices, to safeguard our bitcoin holdings from theft, loss, destruction or other issues relating to hackers and technological attack. Nevertheless, Coinbases security systems may not be impenetrable and may not be free from defect or immune to acts of God, and any loss due to a security breach, software defect or act of God may be borne by us. Our security system and operational infrastructure may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, error or malfeasance of an employee of ours, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our private keys, data or bitcoin. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees of ours to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our infrastructure. As the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, or may be designed to remain dormant until a predetermined event and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security systems occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security systems could be harmed, which could adversely affect an investment in us. In the event of a security breach, we may be forced to cease operations, or suffer a reduction in assets, the occurrence of each of which could adversely affect an investment in us. A loss of confidence in our security systems, or a breach of our security systems, may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in us. We will take measures to protect us and our bitcoin from unauthorized access, damage or theft; however, it is possible that our security systems may not prevent the improper access to, or damage or theft of, our bitcoin holdings. A security breach could harm our reputation or result in the loss of some or all of our bitcoin. A resulting perception that our measures do not adequately protect our bitcoin holdings could result in a loss of current or potential stockholders, reducing demand for our common stock and causing our shares to decrease in value. Bitcoin transactions are irrevocable and stolen or incorrectly transferred bitcoin may be irretrievable. As a result, any incorrectly executed digital asset transactions could adversely affect an investment in us. Bitcoin transactions are not, from an administrative perspective, reversible without the consent and active participation of the recipient of the transaction or, in theory, control or consent of a majority of the processing power on the bitcoin network. Once a transaction has been verified and recorded in a block that is added to the blockchain, an incorrect transfer of bitcoin or a theft of bitcoin generally will not be reversible, and we may not be capable of seeking compensation for any such transfer or theft. While we exchange our bitcoin directly for U.S. dollars on Coinbase and do not presently use, or expect to use, our bitcoin for any other transactions other than limited payroll-related payments, it is possible that, through computer or human error, or through theft or criminal action, our bitcoin could be transferred from us in incorrect amounts or to unauthorized third parties. To the extent that we are unable to seek a corrective transaction with such third party or are incapable of identifying the third party which has received our bitcoin through error or theft, we will be unable to revert or otherwise recover incorrectly transferred bitcoin. To the extent that we are unable to seek redress for such error or theft, such loss could adversely affect an investment in us. We may face risks of Internet disruptions, which could have an adverse effect on not only the price of bitcoin but also our ability to mine bitcoin. A disruption of the Internet may adversely affect the mining and use of cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin. Generally, cryptocurrencies and our business of mining bitcoin are dependent upon the Internet. A significant disruption in Internet connectivity could disrupt bitcoins network operations until the disruption is resolved and have an adverse effect on the price of bitcoin and our ability to mine bitcoin. The limited rights of legal recourse available to us expose us and our investors to the risk of loss of our bitcoins for which no person is liable. At this time, there is no specifically enumerated U.S. or foreign governmental, regulatory, investigative or prosecutorial authority or mechanism through which to bring an action or complaint regarding missing or stolen cryptocurrency; though law enforcement agencies like the FBI have recovered stolen bitcoin, that recovery has required significant amounts of time. To the extent that we are unable to recover our losses from such action, error or theft, such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. 24 The sale of our bitcoins to pay for expenses at a time of low bitcoin prices could adversely affect an investment in us. We sell our bitcoins to pay for operating expenses and growth on an as-needed basis. Consequently, we may sell our bitcoins at a time when bitcoin prices are low, which could adversely affect an investment in us. At this time, we do not engage in contractual or financial hedging activities related to our bitcoin holdings to mitigate potential decreases in the price of bitcoin. See the above risk factor entitled, The value of bitcoin has historically been subject to wide swings. Because we do not currently hedge our investment in bitcoin and do not intend to for the foreseeable future, we are directly exposed to bitcoins price volatility and surrounding risks." Demand for bitcoin is driven, in part, by its status as a prominent and secure cryptocurrency. It is possible that a cryptocurrency other than bitcoin could have features that make it more desirable to a material portion of the digital asset user base, resulting in a reduction in demand for bitcoin. Bitcoin holds a first-to-market advantage over other cryptocurrencies. This first-to-market advantage is driven in large part by having the largest user base and, more importantly, the largest combined mining power in use. Nonetheless, another form of cryptocurrency could become materially popular due to either a perceived or exposed shortcoming of the bitcoin network or a perceived advantage of another form of digital currency. If another form of digital currency obtains significant market share, this could reduce the interest in, and value of, bitcoin and the profitability of our bitcoin operations. Our mining costs may be in excess of our mining revenues, which could seriously harm our business and adversely impact an investment in us. Mining operations are costly and our expenses may increase in the future. Increases in mining expenses may not be offset by corresponding increases in revenue (i.e., the value of bitcoin mined). Our expenses may become greater than we anticipate, and our investments to make our business more cost-efficient may not succeed. Further, even if our expenses remain the same or decline, our revenues may not exceed our expenses to the extent the price of bitcoin decreases without a corresponding decrease in bitcoin network difficulty. Increases in our costs without corresponding increases in our revenue would adversely affect our profitability and could seriously harm our business and an investment in us. The properties included in our mining operations may experience damages, including damages that may not be covered by insurance. Our current mining locations and any future sites we establish will be subject to a variety of risks relating to physical condition and operation, including but not limited to: construction or repair defects or other structural or building damage; any noncompliance with or liabilities under applicable environmental, health or safety regulations or requirements or building permit requirements; any damage resulting from natural disasters and climate change, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods and windstorms; and claims by employees and others for injuries sustained at our properties. Although our mining sites are equipped with standard security measures normally associated with a traditional data center, and insured by tier one insurance providers, our mining sites could still be rendered inoperable, temporarily or permanently, as a result of a fire or other natural disaster or by a terrorist or other events outside of our control. For a summary of our insurance coverage, see BusinessInsurance. The measures we have taken, and may take in the future, to prevent and insure against these risks may prove to not be sufficient or effective. We are subject to risks associated with our need for significant electrical power. The operation of a bitcoin mining facility requires significant amounts of electrical power. Any mining site we currently operate or establish in the future can only be successful if we can continue to obtain sufficient electrical 25 power for that site on a cost-effective basis. We currently have five fully-owned campuses and operate additional miners under one active hosting agreement, each of which have unique power agreements. Geopolitical events including the war in Ukraine and inflationary impacts have caused power prices to increase worldwide; if power prices continue to increase while bitcoin prices decrease, our ability to profitability mine bitcoin would be negatively impacted. We may curtail the energy used by our mining operations in times of heightened energy prices or in the case of a grid-wide electricity shortage either voluntarily or by agreement with utility providers. We may also encounter other situations where utilities or government entities restrict or prohibit the provision of electricity to mining operations. In these cases, our ability to produce bitcoin may be negatively affected. Because we also expect to expand to additional sites, there may be significant competition for suitable locations with access to affordable power. Additionally, our facilities could be adversely affected by a power outage. Although we maintain limited backup power at certain sites, it would not be feasible to run miners on back-up power generators in the event of a government restriction on electricity or a power outage. To the extent we are unable to receive adequate power supply and are forced to reduce or cease our operations due to the availability or cost of electrical power, our business would be adversely affected. Further, one of our key strategies is to use sustainable and environmentally friendly sources of energy, including nuclear energy sources. To the extent we are unable to obtain sustainable sources of energy on a cost-effective basis and execute on this strategy, our business could be adversely affected. Increased scrutiny and changing expectations from stakeholders with respect to our ESG practices and the impacts of climate change may result in additional costs or risks. Companies across many industries are facing increasing scrutiny related to their environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. Investor advocacy groups, certain institutional investors, investment funds and other influential investors are also increasingly focused on ESG practices and in recent years have placed increasing importance on the non-financial impacts of their investments. In May 2021, the SEC proposed rule changes that would require public companies to include certain climate-related disclosures in their periodic reports, including information about climate-related risks that are reasonably likely to have a material impact on their business, results of operations, or financial condition, and certain climate-related financial statement metrics in a note to their audited financial statements. The SEC noted that such rule changes were proposed in response to investor demands for consistent and comparable data on climate change. Furthermore, increased public awareness and concern regarding environmental risks, including global climate change, may result in increased public scrutiny of our business and our industry, and our management team may divert significant time and energy away from our operations and towards responding to such scrutiny and reassuring our employees. In addition, the physical risks of climate change may impact the availability and cost of materials and natural resources, sources and supplies of energy, and demand for bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, and could increase our insurance and other operating costs, including, potentially, to repair damage incurred as a result of extreme weather events or to renovate or retrofit facilities to better withstand extreme weather events. If environmental laws or regulations or industry standards are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements on our operations, or if our operations are disrupted due to physical impacts of climate change, our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position could be negatively impacted. Our operations and profitability may be adversely affected by competition from other methods of investing in cryptocurrencies. We compete with other users and/or companies that are mining bitcoin and other potential financial vehicles, including securities backed by or linked to bitcoin. Market and financial conditions, and other conditions beyond our control, may make it more attractive to invest in other financial vehicles, or to invest in cryptocurrencies directly, which could limit the market for our shares and reduce their liquidity. The emergence of other financial vehicles and exchange-traded funds have increased scrutiny on cryptocurrencies, and such scrutiny could be applicable to us and impact our 26 ability to successfully establish or maintain a public market for our securities. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account, and harm investors. From time to time, as market conditions change, large holders of bitcoin may sell large amounts all at once into the market, thereby constraining the growth of the price of bitcoin. There are very large holders of bitcoin, including other miners, that may choose or be forced to sell large quantities of bitcoin all at once or over a short period of time. Such an increase in selling volume could create downward pressure on the market price of bitcoin. Potential that, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by a custodian, bitcoin held in custody could be determined to be property of a bankruptcy estate and we could be considered a general unsecured creditor thereof. All of the bitcoin we hold is held in either cold or hot storage by Coinbase. The treatment of bitcoins held by custodians that file for bankruptcy protection is uncharted territory in U.S. Bankruptcy law. We cannot say with certainty whether our bitcoin held in custody by Coinbase, should it declare bankruptcy, would be treated as property of the bankruptcy estate and, accordingly, whether we would be treated as a general unsecured creditor with respect of our bitcoin held in custody by Coinbase. If we are treated as a general unsecured creditor, we may not be able to recover our bitcoin in the event of a Coinbase bankruptcy or a bankruptcy of any other custodian we may use in the future. There are risks related to technological obsolescence, the vulnerability of the global supply chain for cryptocurrency hardware disruption and difficulty in obtaining new hardware which may have a negative effect on our business. As our mining facilities operate, our miners experience ordinary wear and tear and may face more significant malfunctions caused by a number of extraneous factors beyond our control. The degradation of our miners will also require us, over time, to repair or replace miners which are no longer functional. Additionally, as technology evolves, we may be required to acquire newer models of miners to remain competitive in the market. This upgrading process requires substantial capital investment, and we may face challenges in doing so on a timely and cost-effective basis. Further, the global supply of miners is unpredictable and presently heavily dependent on manufacturers headquartered in China, with manufacturing in Asia, which was severely affected by the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic. We currently utilize several types of ASIC miners as part of our mining operation, including Bitmain Antminers, Canaan Avalon miners and MicroBT WhatsMiners,all of which are produced in China, Malaysia, Indonesia or Thailand. Geopolitical matters, including the relationship of the U.S. with China, may impact our ability to import ASIC miners. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate replacement parts for our existing miners or obtain additional miners from manufacturers on a timely basis. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account, and harm investors. Since there has been limited precedent set for financial accounting of digital assets, including bitcoin, it is unclear how we will be required to account for transactions involving digital assets. Because there has been limited precedent set for the financial accounting of cryptocurrencies and related revenue recognition and no official guidance has yet been provided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC as to bitcoin miners, it is unclear how bitcoin miners may in the future be required to account for cryptocurrency transactions and assets and related revenue recognition. A change in regulatory or financial accounting standards or interpretations by the SEC, particularly as they relate to the Company and the financial accounting of our bitcoin-related operations, could result in changes in our accounting treatment and the necessity to restate our financial statements. In addition, the accounting policies of many companies are being subjected to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public, and we have received comments from the staff of the SECs Division of Corporation Finance Office of Crypto Assets (the Staff) during fiscal year 2023 related to the accounting of our bitcoin-related operations. See Item 1B, Unresolved Staff Comments. Such continued uncertainty with regard to financial accounting matters, particularly as they relate to the Company, the financial accounting of our bitcoin-related operations and the SEC comments we have received in respect of such matters, could negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to raise capital. 27 If we fail to grow our hashrate, we may be unable to compete, and our results of operations could suffer. Generally, a bitcoin miners chance of solving a block on the bitcoin blockchain and earning a bitcoin reward is a function of the miners hashrate (i.e., the amount of computing power devoted to supporting the bitcoin blockchain), relative to the global network hashrate. As demand for bitcoin has increased, the global network hashrate has increased, and to the extent more adoption of bitcoin occurs, we would expect the demand for bitcoin would increase, drawing more mining companies into the industry and further increasing the global network hashrate. As new and more powerful and energy-efficient mining servers are deployed, the global network hashrate will continue to increase, meaning a miners respective percentage of the total daily rewards will decline unless it deploys additional hashrate at pace with the growth of global hashrate. Accordingly, to compete in this highly competitive industry, we believe we will need to continue to acquire new miners, both to replace those lost to ordinary wear and tear and other damage, and to increase our hashrate to keep up with a growing global network hashrate. We plan to grow our hashrate, in part, by acquiring newer, more powerful and energy-efficient miners. These new miners are highly specialized servers that are very difficult to produce at scale. As a result, there are limited producers capable of producing large numbers of sufficiently effective miners. Thecost of these miners is directly correlated to bitcoin prices and the profitability of bitcoin mining. Demand for new miners increased in response to increased bitcoin prices in 2021 followed by a decreased in demand due to falling bitcoin prices in 2022. We observed the price of these new miners followed changes in demand, resulting in elevated machine prices when bitcoin mining economics are high and significantly lower prices when these economics are strained. As a result, positive bitcoin economics may negatively impact our future equipment costs and increase the competition to secure mining equipment. If we are unable to acquire sufficient numbers of new miners or access sufficient capital to fund our acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect investments in our securities. Our business has been, and in the future may be, subject to risks arising from pandemic, epidemic or an outbreak of diseases, such as the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak to be a pandemic. Since then, COVID-19 spread across the globe and impacted worldwide economic activity, including through quarantines, travel bans and restrictions, shelter-in-place orders, shutdowns of businesses, reductions in business activity, supply chain interruptions and overall economic and financial market instability. These measures impacted, and may further impact, our workforce and operations, as well as the operations of our customers, our partners and our vendors and suppliers. Our critical business operations, including our headquarters, and many of our key suppliers, are located in regions which have been and may continue to be impacted by COVID-19. Our suppliers worldwide have also been affected by COVID-19 and may continue to experience material impacts well beyond the end of the pandemic. Specifically, the manufacture of components of our miners, the final assembly of our miners and other critical operations are concentrated in China and other geographic locations that have been impacted by COVID-19 and in which local governments continue to take measures to try to contain the pandemic. There is considerable uncertainty regarding the impact of such measures and potential future measures, including restrictions on manufacturing facilities, on our support operations or workforce, or on our customers, partners, vendors and suppliers. Such measures, as well as restrictions on or disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability or increased cost of air transport, port closures, and increased border controls or closures, could limit our capacity to meet customer demand and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic and other factors have historically impacted, and may further adversely affect our supply chain, consistent with their effect across many industries, including creating shipping and logistics challenges and placing significant limits on component supplies. They have also historically and may further result in significantly increased costs for shipping miners, related components and infrastructure. In addition, while the extent of the COVID-19 pandemic's continued effect on the global economy and our business in particular are difficult to assess or predict, the pandemic has historically resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, which may reduce our ability to access capital or our customers ability to pay us for past or future purchases, which could negatively affect our working capital and liquidity. A recession or financial market correction resulting from the lack of containment and spread of COVID-19 or a similar 28 health epidemic could impact overall spending, adversely affecting demand for bitcoin, our business and the value of our common stock. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or a similar health epidemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance, including our ability to execute our business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, will depend on future developments, including, but not limited to, the potential resurgence of COVID-19, the duration and spread of any other pandemic, its severity, any related restrictions on travel, any closures worldwide, the effectiveness of previous and any future actions taken in the United States and other countries to contain and treat the disease, including, without limitation, the effectiveness of vaccination initiatives in the United States and worldwide and the duration, timing and severity of the impact on customer spending, including any recession resulting from the pandemic, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. An extended period of global supply chain and economic disruption as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic could have a materially adverse impact on our business, results of operations, access to sources of capital and financial condition, though the full extent and duration of any such impact is also uncertain. Global economic conditions, including continuing or worsening inflationary issues and associated changes in monetary policy and potential economic recession, and geopolitical events such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and the subsequent imposition of sanctions as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. General economic and political conditions such as economic recessions, interest rates, rising inflation, commodity prices, foreign currency fluctuations, international tariffs, social, political and economic risks, hostilities or the perception that hostilities may be imminent, military conflict and acts of war, including further escalation of the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the related response, including sanctions or other restrictive actions, by the United States and/or other countries, as well as the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, could adversely impact our business, supply chain or partners. The U.S. inflation rate steadily increased since 2021 and into 2022 and 2023. These inflationary pressures, as well as disruptions in our supply chain, have increased the costs of most other goods, services and personnel, which have in turn caused our capital expenditures and operating costs to rise. Sustained levels of high inflation caused the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks to increase interest rates, which have raised the cost of acquiring capital and reduced economic growth, either of whichor the combination thereofcould hurt the financial and operating results of our business. In addition, the extent and duration of the situation in Ukraine, resulting sanctions and resulting future market disruptions are impossible to predict, but could be significant. The effects of such global economic conditions, including continuing or worsening inflationary issues and associated changes in monetary policy or potential economic recession, and geopolitical events could adversely affect our ability to access the capital and other financial markets, and if so, we may need to consider alternative sources of funding for some of our growth and operations and for working capital, which may increase our cost of, as well as adversely impact our access to, capital. Divestitures and discontinued operations could negatively impact our business, and retained liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our financial results. In connection with the execution of our strategy to focus entirely on bitcoin mining, we have completed several divestitures, including the divestiture of a part of our former energy business. We intend to make further dispositions in connection with our non-bitcoin mining related businesses, which we may not be able to complete on favorable terms or at all. If we do not realize the expected benefits of these divestitures or our post-completion liabilities and continuing obligations are substantial and exceed our expectations, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. As a result of such dispositions, bitcoin mining is now the sole driver of our business and revenues and is expected to continue to be the source of substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future, which has the effect of increasing our exposure to the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, in the course of our discontinued operations, we may become subject to legal actions based on a claim that our legacy energy products are or were defective in workmanship or have caused personal or other injuries. We may also be subject to lawsuits and other claims in the future if our legacy products or installed systems malfunction, 29 including, for example, if any of our energy system offerings (such as installed rackingsystems, photovoltaic modules, batteries, inverters, or other products) causes injuries. Because energy systems and many of our other products are electricity-producing devices, it is possible that customers or their property could be injured or damaged by our products, whether due to product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. Further, since our products are used in systems that are made up of components sourced from third-party manufacturers, we may be subject to product liability claims even if our products do not malfunction. Additionally, any of our products could be subject to recalls due to product malfunctions or defects. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages that could require us to make significant payments, as well as subject us to adverse publicity, thereby damaging our reputation and competitive position. We rely on third-party manufacturing warranties, warranties provided by our manufacturing partners and our general liability insurance to cover product liability claims and have not obtained separate product liability insurance. Such warranties and insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all potential claims. Moreover, even if such warranties and insurance coverage are sufficient, any successful claim could significantly harm our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Our limited insurance protection exposes us and our stockholders to the risk of loss of our bitcoin for which no person is liable. We do not currently maintain our own insurance coverage for our bitcoin holdings, which are held in custody by Coinbase. In addition, while Coinbase maintains insurance coverage of such types and amounts as Coinbase asserts to be commercially reasonable for its custodial services provided under the Companys custody agreement with Coinbase, including certain commercial crime insurance of limited aggregate principal amount which covers losses stemming from fraud, security breach, hack and asset theft, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to protect the Company against all losses of its bitcoin holdings held in custody with Coinbase, whether or not stemming from security breaches, cyberattacks or other types of unlawful activity. Therefore, a loss may be suffered with respect to our bitcoin that is not covered by insurance and for which no person is liable in damages, which could adversely affect our operations and, consequently, an investment in us. Risks Related to Governmental Regulation and Enforcement Operations If regulatory changes or interpretations of our activities require our registration as an MSB under the regulations promulgated by FinCEN under the authority of the BSA, or otherwise under state laws, we may incur significant compliance costs, which could be substantial or cost-prohibitive. If we become subject to these regulations, our costs in complying with them may have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations. To the extent our bitcoin mining activities cause us to be deemed a money services business (an MSB) under the regulations promulgated by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) under the authority of the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (the BSA), we may be required to comply with FinCEN regulations, including those that would mandate us to implement anti-money laundering programs, make certain reports to FinCEN and maintain certain records. To the extent that our cryptocurrency activities cause us to be deemed a money transmitter (an MT) or be given an equivalent designation under state law in any state in which we operate, we may be required to seek a license or otherwise register with a state regulator and comply with state regulations that may include the implementation of anti-money laundering programs, maintenance of certain records and other operational requirements. Currently, the New York State Department of Financial Services maintains a comprehensive BitLicense framework for businesses that conduct virtual currency business activity. In July 2020, Louisiana enacted the Virtual Currency Businesses Act. In October 2023, California enacted the Digital Financial Assets Law, which requires registration for certain digital financial asset business activities. We will continue to monitor for developments in state-level legislation, guidance or regulations applicable to us. Such additional federal or state regulatory obligations in the United States or obligations that could arise under the regulatory frameworks of other countries may cause us to incur significant expenses, possibly affecting our business and financial condition in a material and adverse manner. Furthermore, we and our service providers may not be capable of complying with certain federal or state regulatory obligations applicable to MSBs and MTs or similar obligations in other countries. If we are deemed to be subject to such additional regulatory oversight and registration 30 or licensing requirements, we may be required to substantially alter our bitcoin mining activities and possibly cease engaging in such activities. Any such action may adversely affect our business operations and financial condition and an investment in our company. Current regulation regarding the exchange of bitcoins under the CEA by the CFTC is unclear; to the extent we become subject to regulation by the CFTC in connection with our exchange of bitcoin, we may incur additional compliance costs, which may be significant. The Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (the CEA), does not currently impose any direct obligations on us related to the mining or exchange of bitcoins. Generally, the CFTC, the federal agency that administers the CEA, regards bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies as commodities. This position has been supported by decisions of federal courts. However, the CEA imposes requirements relative to certain transactions involving bitcoin and other digital assets that constitute a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery (or an option on such a contract), a swap or a transaction involving margin, financing or leverage that does not result in actual delivery of the commodity within 28 days to persons not defined as eligible contract participants or eligible commercial entities under the CEA (e.g., retail persons). Changes in the CEA or the regulations promulgated by the CFTC thereunder, as well as interpretations thereof and official promulgations by the CFTC, may impact the classification of bitcoin and, therefore, may subject bitcoin to additional regulatory oversight by the agency. Although to date the CFTC has not enacted regulations governing non-derivative or non-financed, margined or leveraged transactions in bitcoin, it has authority to commence enforcement actions against persons who violate certain prohibitions under the CEA related to transactions in any contract of sale of any commodity, including bitcoin, in interstate commerce (e.g., manipulation and engaging in certain deceptive practices). We cannot be certain as to how future regulatory developments will impact the treatment of bitcoin under the law. Any requirements imposed by the CFTC related to our mining activities or our transactions in bitcoin could cause us to incur additional extraordinary, non-recurring expenses, thereby potentially materially and adversely impacting an investment in the Company. Moreover, if our mining activities or transactions in bitcoin were deemed by the CFTC to constitute a collective investment in derivatives for our stockholders, we may be required to register as a commodity pool operator with the CFTC through the National Futures Association. Such additional registrations may result in extraordinary, non-recurring expenses, thereby potentially materially and adversely impacting an investment in the Company. If we determine not to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may seek to cease certain of our operations. Any such action may adversely affect an investment in the Company. While no provision of the CEA or CFTC rules, orders or rulings (except as noted herein) appear to be currently applicable to our business, this is subject to change. If the SEC or another regulatory body considers bitcoin to be a security under U.S. securities laws, we may be required to comply with significant SEC registration and/or other requirements. In general, novel or unique assets such as bitcoin and other digital assets may be classified as securities if they meet the definition of investment contracts under U.S. law. In recent years, the offer and sale of digital assets other than bitcoin, most notably Kik Interactive Inc.s Kin tokens and Telegram Group Inc.s TON tokens, have been deemed to be investment contracts by the SEC. While we believe that bitcoin is unlikely to be considered an investment contract, and thus a security under the investment contract definition, we cannot provide any assurances that digital assets that we may mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account, including bitcoin, will never be classified as securities under U.S. law. This would obligate us to comply with registration and other requirements by the SEC and, therefore, cause us to incur significant, non-recurring expenses, thereby potentially materially and adversely impacting an investment in the Company. It may be illegal now, or in the future, to mine, acquire, own, hold, sell or use bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies, participate in blockchains or utilize similar cryptocurrency assets in one or more countries, the ruling of which could adversely affect us. Although currently cryptocurrencies generally are not regulated or are lightly regulated in most countries, several countries, such as China, India and Russia, may continue taking regulatory actions in the future that could severely 31 restrict the right to mine, acquire, own, hold, sell or use cryptocurrency assets or to exchange any such cryptocurrency assets for local currency. For example, in China and Russia (India is currently proposing new legislation), it is illegal to accept payment in bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies for consumer transactions and banking institutions are barred from accepting deposits of cryptocurrencies. In addition, in March 2021, the governmental authorities for the Chinese province of Inner Mongolia banned bitcoin mining in the province due to the industrys intense electrical power demands and its negative environmental impacts. If other countries, including the U.S., implement similar restrictions, such restrictions may adversely affect us. For example, in New York State, a moratorium on certain bitcoin mining operations that run on carbon-based power sources was signed into law on November 22, 2022. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account, and thus harm investors. Changing environmental regulation and public energy policy may expose our business to new risks. Our bitcoin mining operations require a substantial amount of power and can only be successful, and ultimately profitable, if the costs we incur, including for electricity, are lower than the revenue we generate from our operations. As a result, any mine we establish can only be successful if we can obtain sufficient electrical power for that mine on a cost-effective basis, and our establishment of new mines requires us to find locations where that is the case. For instance, our plans and strategic initiatives for expansion are based, in part, on our understanding of current environmental and energy regulations, policies and initiatives enacted by federal, New York State and Georgia State regulators. If new regulations are imposed, or if existing regulations are modified, the assumptions we made underlying our plans and strategic initiatives may be inaccurate, and we may incur additional costs to adapt our planned business, if we are able to adapt at all, to such regulations. In addition, there continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty for our business because the bitcoin mining industry, with its high energy demand, may become a target for future environmental and energy regulation. New legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us and our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting, and other costs to comply with such regulations. Further, any future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. For example, the recently passed legislation in the state of New York imposing a moratorium on certain bitcoin mining operations that run carbon-based power. Given the political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be addressed, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Future developments regarding the treatment of digital assets for U.S. federal income and applicable state, local and non-U.S. tax purposes could adversely impact our business. Due to the new and evolving nature of digital assets and the absence of comprehensive legal guidance with respect to digital assets and related transactions, many significant aspects of the U.S. federal income and applicable state, local and non-U.S. tax treatment of transactions involving digital assets, such as the purchase and sale of bitcoin and the receipt of staking rewards and other digital asset incentives and rewards products, are uncertain, and it is unclear what guidance may be issued in the future with respect to the tax treatment of digital assets and related transactions. Current Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") guidance indicates that for U.S. federal income tax purposes digital assets such as bitcoins should be treated and taxed as property, and that transactions involving the payment of bitcoins for goods and services should be treated in effect as barter transactions. The IRS has also released guidance to the effect that, under certain circumstances, hard forks of digital currencies are taxable events giving rise to taxable income and guidance with respect to the determination of the tax basis of digital currency. However, current IRS guidance does not address other significant aspects of the U.S. federal income tax treatment of digital assets and related transactions. Moreover, although current IRS guidance addresses the treatment of certain forks, there continues to be uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of income inclusions for various digital asset transactions, including, but not limited to, staking rewards and other digital asset incentives and rewards products. While current IRS guidance creates 32 a potential tax reporting requirement for any circumstance where the ownership of a bitcoin passes from one person to another, it preserves the right to apply capital gains treatment to those transactions, which is generally favorable for investors in bitcoin. There can be no assurance that the IRS will not alter its existing position with respect to digital assets in the future or that other state, local and non-U.S. taxing authorities or courts will follow the approach of the IRS with respect to the treatment of digital assets such as bitcoin for income tax and sales tax purposes. Any such alteration of existing guidance or issuance of new or different guidance may have negative consequences including the imposition of a greater tax burden on investors in bitcoin or imposing a greater cost on the acquisition and disposition of bitcoin, generally, and potentially have a negative effect on the trading price of bitcoin or otherwise negatively impact our business. In addition, future technological and operational developments that may arise with respect to digital currencies may increase the uncertainty with respect to the treatment of digital currencies for U.S. federal income and applicable state, local and non-U.S. tax purposes. Our interactions with the bitcoin network may expose us to SDN or blocked persons or cause us to violate provisions of law that did not contemplate distributed ledger technology. The Office of Financial Assets Control (OFAC) of the Treasury requires us to comply with its sanction program and not conduct business with persons named on its specially designated nationals (SDN) list. However, because of the pseudonymous nature of blockchain transactions, we may inadvertently and without our knowledge engage in transactions with persons named on OFACs SDN list. We also may not be adequately capable of determining the ultimate identity of the persons with whom we transact. Risks Related to Our Securities The price of our common stock may be volatile and could fluctuate widely, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; government regulation; the establishment of partnerships with other technology companies; intellectual property disputes; additions or departures of key personnel; sales of our common stock; our ability to integrate operations, technology, products and services; our ability to execute our business plan; operating results below expectations; loss of any strategic relationship; industry developments; economic and other external factors; and period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Specifically, the trading price of our common stock has already been correlated, and, in the future, as we continue to expand our bitcoin mining business, may be increasingly correlated, to the trading prices of bitcoin. The stocks of 33 bitcoin mining companies have shown volatility relative to bitcoin. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency market prices, which have historically been volatile and are impacted by a variety of factors (including those discussed herein), are determined primarily by using data from various exchanges, over-the-counter markets and derivative platforms. As noted elsewhere herein, while we had no direct exposure to FTX, the failure or insolvency of large exchanges like FTX may cause the price of bitcoin to fall and decrease confidence in the ecosystem, which could negatively impact our stock price. Furthermore, such prices may be subject to factors such as those that impact commodities, more so than business activities, which could be subjected to additional influence from fraudulent or illegitimate actors, real or perceived scarcity, and political, economic, regulatory or other conditions. Pricing may be the result of, and may continue to result in, speculation regarding future appreciation in the value of bitcoin, or our share price, inflating and making their market prices more. For example, the closing sales price of our common stock on September 30, 2022 was $3.18 and the closing price of bitcoin was $19,426 and, as of September 30, 2023, the closing sales price of our common stock was $3.81, and the closing price of Bitcoin was $26,961. In addition, the stock markets in general have often experienced volatility, including in the wake of COVID-19, that has sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations have caused, and may continue to cause, the trading price of our common stock to decline. A continuation or worsening of the levels of market disruption and volatility seen in the recent past could have an adverse effect on our ability to access capital, on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects, and on the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type may be expensive to defend and may divert our managements attention and resources from the operation of our business. We have the right to designate and issue additional shares of preferred stock. If we were to designate and/or issue additional preferred stock, it is likely to have rights, preferences and privileges that may adversely affect the common stock. We are authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of blank-check preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix for any series the dividend rights, dissolution or liquidation preferences, redemption prices, conversion rights, voting rights and other rights, preferences and privileges for the preferred stock. Currently, 2,000,000 shares are designated as Series A Preferred Stock, of which 1,750,000 shares are outstanding. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to have the Company redeem each share of Series A Preferred Stock for three shares of our common stock only if a change of control event (as defined in the certificate of designation) occurs, and they are entitled to vote together with the holders of the Companys common stock on all matters submitted to stockholders at a rate of forty-five (45) votes for each share of Series A Preferred Stock held. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences and privileges attributable to the preferred stock, could reduce the voting rights and powers of our common stock and the portion of our assets allocated for distribution to common stockholders in a liquidation event, and could also result in dilution in the book value per share of our common stock. The preferred stock could also be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for raising additional capital or discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, to the detriment of the investors in our common stock. We cannot assure that we will not, under certain circumstances, issue additional shares of our preferred stock. We are currently the subject of a shareholder class action, and may be subject to shareholder litigation in the future; our costs of defending such litigation, arbitration and other proceedings and any adverse outcome of such litigation, arbitration or other proceeding may have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations. We are currently, and may from time to time in the future be, involved in and subject to material litigation and other legal proceedings. In particular, on January 20, 2021, a purported stockholder of the Company, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated, filed a putative class action complaint (the Class Complaint) in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against us and certain members of our executive management team. The Class Complaint alleges that, between December 31, 2020 and January 14, 2021, we and 34 certain members of our executive management team failed to disclose certain material information to investors and that, as a result of the foregoing, our positive statements about our business, operations and prospects were materially misleading and/or lacked a reasonable basis. The claims made in the Class Complaint appear to be derived from a short seller report that was published about us. We have financed our strategic growth primarily by issuing new shares of our common stock in public offerings, which dilutes the ownership interests of our current stockholders, and which may adversely affect the market price of our securities. We have raised capital to finance our strategic growth of our business through public offerings of our common stock, including through our at-the-market offering program, and we expect to need to raise additional capital through similar public offerings to finance the completion of current and future expansion initiatives. Utilizing those sources may be more challenging in the current financial market conditions, in particular where trading volume is diminished. We may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could impair our growth and adversely impact our existing operations. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the per share value of our common stock could decline. Furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of any debt we issue would likely have priority over the holders of shares of our common stock in terms of order of payment preference. We may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or take other actions, including terms that require us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios that could otherwise not be in the interests of our stockholders. We have not paid dividends on shares of our common stock in the past and have no immediate plans to do so in the future. We have not paid, and do not plan to pay in the immediate future, any cash dividends with respect to our common stock. We plan to reinvest all of our earnings, to the extent we have earnings, in order to cover operating costs and to otherwise become and remain competitive. We cannot assure stockholders that we will, at any time, generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock as a dividend. Therefore, stockholders should not expect to receive cash dividends on our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us now or in the future issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. In April 2022, we entered into a Master Equipment Financing Agreement with Trinity Capital Inc., as the lender (the Financing Agreement). The Financing Agreement provided for up to $35,000 of borrowings to finance our acquisition of blockchain computing equipment. We received a loan of $20,000 at close, with the remaining $15,000 not requested for funding and cancelled. As of September 30, 2023, $11,730 in principal was outstanding and due to Trinity Capital Inc. The borrowings under the Financing Agreement are collateralized by 3,336 S19j Pro miners, which are located at our College Park, GA and Norcross, GA sites. The value of the miners collateralizing the borrowings under the Financing Agreement may be negatively impacted by adverse events affecting the digital asset markets and/or volatility in the price of bitcoin. Should we fail to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and should Trinity Capital Inc. foreclose on the miners collaterizing our indebtedness, we could potentially lose up to 0.33 exahashes of computing power, or 3.3% of our current computing power. In addition, to the extent the value of the miners securing our borrowings under the Financing Agreement decreases and falls the below the aggregate amount of our obligations under the Financing Agreement, the lender thereunder would be our unsecured creditor in respect of the difference in the value of the collateral and our obligations. 35 In addition, our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt result in greater interest rate risk and volatility limit our ability to borrow additional funds and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our Financing Agreement under certain circumstances, or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. We incur significant costs and demands upon management and accounting and finance resources as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies; any failure to establish and maintain adequate internal controls and/or disclosure controls or to recruit, train and retain necessary accounting and finance personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to accurately and timely prepare our financial statements and otherwise make timely and accurate public disclosure. As a public company, we incur significant administrative, legal, accounting and other burdens and expenses beyond those of a private company, including public company reporting obligations and Nasdaq listing requirements. In particular, we have needed, and continue to need, to enhance and supplement our internal accounting resources with additional accounting and finance personnel with the requisite technical and public company experience and expertise to enable us to satisfy such reporting obligations. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls (including internal control over financial reporting) could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis, or to detect and prevent fraud and could expose us to regulatory enforcement action and stockholders claims. Furthermore, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), we are required to document and test our internal control procedures and prepare annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our assessments must include disclosure of identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm also attests to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could affect the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting. Testing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting involves significant costs and could divert managements attention from other matters that are important to our business. Additionally, we may not be successful in remediating any deficiencies that may be identified. Our management has identified a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future. If we fail to remediate the material weakness or if we otherwise fail to establish and maintain effective control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results may be affected, and such failure may adversely affect investor confidence and business operations. In the course of preparing our financial statements for fiscal 2023, we and our independent registered public accounting firm have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have identified a material weakness related to information technology general controls (ITGCs) in the area of not having controls fully documented responding to all of the Complementary User Entity Controls forwarded through Software as a Service (SaaS) vendor audit reports in the design and implementation of suggested controls and not always having appropriate IT controls related to information produced by the entity (IPE), including spreadsheets, that are relevant to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. To address our material weakness, we need to make changes to our program and controls as set forth in Part II, Item 9A