Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Performance Indicators. Our Network Effects Our platform is multi-faceted and a powerful network of networks. We started in airports and witnessed accelerating member growth in both new markets and existing markets as our network expanded. Our largest CLEAR Plus member acquisition channel continues to be our in-airport channel. As we launched new use cases in existing markets, we saw accelerated growth and improved retention. The ability to use CLEAR in more locations in more ways increases our utility to our members. The larger our member base becomes, the more valuable our platform becomes to our current and prospective partners who utilize our platform to better realize their business objectives. As a result, our growth strategy is focused on simultaneously growing our CLEAR members while continuing to add valuable partners to our network and expanding the functionality and availability of our platform. Our member base includes paying members and platform members. Paying members subscribe to our CLEAR Plus consumer aviation subscription service, which enables access to predictable and fast experiences through dedicated entry lanes in airport security checkpoints across the nation as well as access to our broader network. Our business model is powered by network effects and characterized by efficient member acquisition and high retention rates. Our passionate member base further drives viral, word of mouth marketing and high annual retention rates. Platform members include members who enrolled through our mobile app, our partners customers who have enrolled through our Powered by CLEAR solutions, and formerly paying CLEAR Plus members. Platform members can use CLEAR anywhere in our network outside of our CLEAR Plus service. Typically new platform members are driven to enroll by one of our partners who integrate with CLEAR to enable frictionless experiences for their customers. Our platform partners typically pay us based on the number of users or transaction volume. While contract structure may vary by use case, these deals are typically multi-year, recurring contracts that drive revenue primarily through transaction fees charged either per use or per user over a predefined time period, which sometimes includes tiered pricing. In addition, they may also include one-time implementation fees, licensing fees or incremental transaction fees. Revenues from our partners, and the percentage of our total revenue from these partners, have historically been immaterial. Although platform members may not contribute directly to our revenues, they are valuable to our platform as they indirectly contribute to revenues and drive new partners to CLEAR. Platform members are also driven to enroll directly with CLEAR to access our expanding portfolio of use cases, including Health Pass (which includes validation of COVID testing results and digitization of vaccine status), Home to Gate (end-to-end frictionless travel journeys), venue access and Reserve Powered by CLEAR (virtual queuing). We believe there is a significant opportunity to expand our reach. We expect to expand CLEAR Plus through airport network expansion, increased market penetration in existing markets and new products in the aviation space. Additionally, we have a robust pipeline of new partners who increasingly recognize the need to deliver a fast, easy and secure experience to their customersa true frictionless journey. Our secure identity platform can power a wide range of use cases such as customer check-in, digital identity, account opening/know your customer, virtual queuing, licensing and professional credential verification, and age verification. These use cases can be applied across verticals such as aviation and travel, hospitality, live sports and entertainment, healthcare, financial services and e-commerce, among others. 4 Table of Contents Our Offerings Secure Identity Platform Our secure identity platform is a multi-layered infrastructure consisting of both our front-end, including enrollment, verification and linking, and our robust, secure and scalable back-end. To interact with our platform, first time users go through our fast, secure, and easy enrollment process. Once a member is enrolled, each subsequent use of the platform to verify their identity is only a few simple steps. Our enroll once, verify everywhere approach benefits the entire CLEAR ecosystem by removing friction from members and increasing conversion for partners. CLEAR confirms identity on an opt-in basis using credential authentication (e.g., drivers license, passport), best-of-breed biometric capture technology, liveness detection for anti-spoofing, biometric matching, backend identity proofing and other proprietary technologies to link an individuals identity and their biometrics (e.g., eyes, face and fingerprints). Members can enroll in CLEAR in the manner which is most convenient for them: in-person enrollment pods in airports, or their own personal mobile device. Our platform is versatile, can be used across different verticals and can be customized for specific applications or use cases. Our architecture is designed to be scalable without compromising member experience or information security. We have built SDK and API capabilities to enable our partners to quickly and seamlessly integrate directly with our platform. This structure allows us to facilitate safer, faster and more frictionless experiences for our partners customers, while enabling our partners to continue to control and manage the direct relationship with their customer under their own brand. We have a deep organizational commitment to preserving our members privacy and ensuring members have ultimate control of their personal information. This commitment has been core to our member pledge since our founding over 13 years ago. We have a comprehensive information security program and a robust cybersecurity posture that uses industry best practices with administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect against anticipated threats or hazards to the security, confidentiality or integrity of our platforms systems and information. Our information security core tenets include the application of encryption at rest and in transit, firewalls, multi-factor authentication, granular role-based access control, physical and personnel security (including training), intrusion detection and data loss prevention. We have a commitment to members being in control of their own information and never sell member data. We have been certified at the highest level of security by our government regulators. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has certified CLEARs information security program at a FISMA High Rating (the highest designation according to the Federal Information Security Modernization Act). Consumer Subscription Service CLEAR Plus CLEAR Plus is our consumer aviation subscription service, which enables access to predictable and fast experiences through dedicated entry lanes in airport security checkpoints across the nation as well as access to our broader network. With CLEAR Plus, members use our touchless biometric verification technology to validate their identity and travel credentials. Our team of hospitality and security focused ambassadors help bring our technology to life by delivering a frictionless journey alongside excellent service. CLEAR Plus currently retails for $189 per year per member and is billed upfront. We offer free trials in-airport and online and promotional pricing to select partners including Delta Air Lines and United Airlines frequent fliers, as well as a family plan for up to three household members at an additional $60 per year per family member. Through our partnership with American Express, eligible cardmembers receive statement credits for all or a portion of their CLEAR Plus membership. We also offer discounted military, government and student pricing and children under 18 can use CLEAR Plus for free with an adult member. TSA PreCheck Application Program In January 2020, we were selected by TSA as an awardee in the TSA Biometric PreCheck Expansion Services and Vetting Program. As part of our agreement with TSA, we will leverage our marketing expertise, operational footprint and ambassador network to handle subscription renewal processing and new enrollments for the TSA PreCheck program, as well as offer a CLEAR/TSA PreCheck bundled subscription for customers who are new to both CLEAR and to TSA PreCheck. We will provide the ability to renew TSA PreCheck memberships on our website and complete new enrollments in-airport through our ambassador network. On December 21, 2022, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) issued an authority to operate (ATO) to CLEAR for TSA PreCheck Enrollment Provided by CLEAR, and we expect to begin enrolling travelers in TSA PreCheck in early 2023. The TSA PreCheck Enrollment Provided by CLEAR program will represent a new source of revenue and members. We believe that approximately 56% of CLEAR Plus members are verifying with TSA PreCheck, and that there is a significant opportunity for us to process their TSA PreCheck membership renewals. In addition, we believe we can add a large number of new TSA PreCheck subscribers on behalf of TSA. After a new TSA PreCheck 5 Table of Contents customer is enrolled or renewed, we will offer the customer an opportunity to enroll in CLEAR on an opt-in basis. We believe CLEAR Plus and TSA PreCheck are highly complementary services and this channel is relevant to showcase not only the TSA PreCheck value proposition, but also the power of the combination and the extension of a holistic Home to Gate travel journey. The partnership does not extend to performing physical security screening, which continues to be operated by TSA. Nationwide Physical Network We have built an extensive physical footprint with a nationwide network of use cases including airports, stadiums and businesses to offer members frictionless, trusted experiences as they move and transact throughout the day in both physical and digital environments. As of December 31, 2022, members can access our nationwide network of 48 airports covering 132 lanes, 16 sports and entertainment partners with priority lanes, and a growing list of B2B partners. The continued expansion of our partnerships enable our partners to integrate with CLEAR and our members to use CLEAR in new places and in new ways. Each CLEAR location utilizes one or more of our physical or digital offerings, which may include owned or leased hardware. Many CLEAR locations, for example at airports, also include designated entry lanes for CLEAR members. These locations are staffed by our team of approximately 2,800 part-time and full-time hospitality and security focused ambassadors and field managers. Our ambassadors are a hospitality and security focused labor force that deliver the frictionless CLEAR experience every day to our partners and members. Our ambassadors facilitate a predictable and smooth CLEAR experience for existing members, enroll new members, and help bring our platform to life. Mobile We also engage with our members via the flagship CLEAR mobile app. It's used to enroll new members and improve the experience for existing members. The app has several features, including: Enroll in CLEAR and manage your membership enrolling as a CLEAR member is a quick and easy process that can be handled directly through the CLEAR app via facial biometric recognition technology and validating a government-issued identification. This one-time enrollment can be completed in minutes and gives members access to our platform offerings and an easy upgrade path to CLEAR Plus at our airport locations. Home to Gate members can have a predictable day-of-travel experience by inputting their flight number to access helpful information to assist their journey from the time they leave their home until they board the plane. Home to Gate integrates flight departure times, traffic data, security screening, gate number and terminal walking times to their exact gate. Our integration with Uber allows customers to book a car to depart at the right time for a seamless travel journey. Additional services can be easily integrated into this platform. Credentials, which allow members access to unique experiences by verifying their identity and health attributes such as our Health Pass product which validates COVID-19 test results, vaccination status, and health screening responses. Touchless Access to select partner services and venues, such as airport lounges and event venues. Reserve Powered by CLEAR Reserve Powered by CLEAR is a virtual queuing technology that provides users with the choice of how they queue - either at home or on the move. The technology can be accessed through web, mobile, or web-app technology. Users can see the live wait-times, enter into the queue remotely or pre-book their appointment, and let the software wait on their behalf. Our Value Proposition to Members and Partners For our members, we have built a consumer-centric user experience that helps create frictionless experiences. We started with their travel journey and are expanding into their daily interactions in the physical and digital worlds. For our partners, we believe our rapidly expanding membership base and our platform strengthens their relationships and can elevate the experience they deliver daily to their customers and employees. Why Our Members Love Us We are obsessed with our members experience and seek to continually enhance the value we deliver to them through our platform as reflected by our strong member growth and our average 2022 NPS score of 76.We provide the following key benefits to our members: 6 Table of Contents We seek to transform manual experiences into seamless end-to-end journeys: We are committed to making our members lives safer and easier. Our platform and dedicated team of ambassadors help to transform inconvenient and often stressful consumer experiences into effortless journeys. Our goal is for CLEAR to instill a feeling of being cared for, of being seen, and of feeling safe with predictable, secure and seamless experiences. We expand how and where our members can use CLEAR: As of December 31, 2022, members can access our nationwide network of 48 airports covering 132 lanes, 16 sports and entertainment partners with priority lanes, and our growing B2B partners. We continue to expand our partnerships and seek to establish new partners to enable members to use our platform in new places and in new ways. We invest in innovation: We are focused on innovating both our product and our platform to improve our members experience, improve safety and security and introduce new use cases. For example, to complement our CLEAR Plus airport security checkpoint offering, we developed a portfolio of mobile applications including Home to Gate and the acquisition of Whyline, Inc. our virtual queuing technology used for Reserve Powered by CLEAR. We continue to improve our mobile enrollment experience and have upgraded our APIs and enrollment capacity to support our growth. We intend to accelerate our pace of innovation to add more features and use cases, to ultimately deliver greater value to our members. Our ambassadors bring CLEAR to life for our members: Our passionate team of approximately 2,800 part-time and full-time nationwide CLEAR ambassadors and field managers enhance our members experience and in many instances bring our technology to life. They provide on-location high-touch sales and marketing support which enables new members to enroll and existing members to use our platform with comfort and ease. They also educate our members about our technology, security and privacy. Trust and privacy are the foundation of CLEAR: We have been certified at the highest level of security by our government regulators. The DHS has certified our information security program at a FISMA High Rating (the highest designation according to the Federal Information Security Modernization Act). Our members provide us with their personal information on an opt-in basis with the understanding that their information is secure and will never be sold. Why Our Partners Love Us Our platform is designed to enable our partners to further their business objectives, better serve their customers needs and elevate their customers experiences. By transforming the end-to-end consumer journey, we believe CLEAR enables our partners to capture not just a greater share of their customers wallet, but a greater share of their overall lives. We benefit our partners in a variety of ways, including: We are a committed partner for innovation: Partners turn to us to help them deliver safer, faster and easier experiences to their customers, who have increasingly high expectations for seamless end-to-end journeys. We provide flexibility for them to do so within their own branded solutions through our SDK and API integrations or directly with CLEAR. We have a large, highly engaged and growing CLEAR member base: We have over 15 million CLEAR members, many of whom are frequent travelers and active consumers. Many of our members are also core customers of our partners. Other members can opt-in to a relationship with our partners. As our embedded base of members grow, our partners will benefit from our reach by accelerated adoption rates and economies of scale. Our brand is trusted: We have built a trusted consumer brand with passionate members. We believe our recognized and trusted brand, which is known for innovation and exceptional member experiences, gives our partners confidence that we will enhance and elevate their own customers experience. Security is paramount: Security is our core competency. We have a deep organizational commitment to securing data and protecting member privacy and a robust cyber-security posture. Data protection and privacy are complex and our partners rely on us to fulfill this requirement on their behalf. We significantly benefit the airport communities in which we operate: CLEAR becomes ingrained in the fabric of the local communities where we operate through the engagement of our members, and we believe we make a significant positive economic contribution. CLEAR creates job opportunities where we invest in the learning and development of our local employees and seek to develop partnerships which are mutually beneficial for us, our partners and the community. We operate our own direct-to-consumer offering, creating strong alignment with our partners: We have over 13 years of experience operating CLEAR Plus, our owned and operated consumer subscription service. As we invest in our platform to enhance the CLEAR Plus member experience, our partners benefit from these enhancements. 7 Table of Contents We believe this creates natural alignment with our partners and makes us a trusted and forward-thinking partner to them. Our Member Acquisition and Retention Strategy We have focused our member acquisition strategy around delivering exceptional experiences to build brand trust as well as driving network effects by adding new partners, products and locations to increase our value proposition. Our largest CLEAR Plus member acquisition channel is our highly efficient in-airport channel, where our prominent branding and expansive physical footprint allows prospective members to engage with CLEARs brand, ambassadors and technology firsthand. Our passionate member base drives viral, word of mouth marketing and high levels of retention. To ensure best-in-class member service we monitor real-time member feedback and quickly take action on information-driven insights. As we add new airport and non-airport locations (such as live sports and entertainment venues), the power of network effects makes CLEAR Plus more valuable to our members, further driving new member acquisition and higher member retention. We also entered into strategic distribution partnerships with partners such as Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and American Express that promote our services to their customers on a discounted or subsidized basis which allows us to efficiently scale membership in CLEAR Plus. CLEAR also offers services that are free to members, both directly and under agreements with our partners who typically pay us based on the number of members or transaction volume. New platform members are largely driven to our platform by one of our partners who integrate with CLEAR to enable frictionless experiences for their customers. These partnerships allow us to scale our use cases and membership, which enhances the value of our network, and earn revenue from platform members. Our expanding portfolio of use cases attracts new platform members directly to our platform and creates enhanced value for our CLEAR Plus members. As a result, we expect our platform member acquisition costs to remain low. Today these include Health Pass (which includes validation of COVID testing results and digitization of vaccine status) and Home to Gate (end-to-end frictionless travel journeys), and in the future will also include Reserve Powered by CLEAR (virtual queuing). Certain platform members may wish to upgrade to CLEAR Plus, further driving our revenues. Over time, as we continue to grow platform members, potentially at faster rates than paying members, we expect to see growth in Total Cumulative Enrollments and Total Cumulative Platform Uses per Total Cumulative Enrollments as well as a decrease in revenue per Total Cumulative Enrollments accompanied by a commensurate decline in the cost to acquire an incremental Total Cumulative Enrollment. We believe this dynamic will grow the long-term economic value of our platform by increasing total engagement, expanding our margins and maximizing our revenue. We measure our CLEAR Plus member Lifetime Value and Customer Acquisition Cost in an effort to measure the efficiency of our member acquisition and retention strategy. Lifetime Value is calculated by estimating the cumulative dollar contribution over the estimated lifetime of a CLEAR Plus member. To estimate retention rates we use CLEAR Plus Member Retention across annual cohorts in 2022. We estimate the dollar contribution as the annual revenue per member less estimated direct costs to service that member including revenue share, credit card fees, and member service expense to process that member in a CLEAR lane. Customer Acquisition Cost is calculated by dividing total 2022 airport-related marketing spend, inclusive of commissions, by total new paying CLEAR Plus members who joined during 2022. On this basis, we achieved a Lifetime Value to Customer Acquisition Cost ratio of approximately 22 times for members who joined during 2022. Our Competitive Advantages Trusted and Extensible Brand with Passionate Member Base From our founding, we have been obsessed with the CLEAR member experience. We have been expanding our network, investing in our technology platform, strengthening our operations and developing our people to consistently deliver increased value to members and partners, resulting in our trusted and valued brand. Our passionate member base drives viral, word of mouth marketing and high annual retention rates. This is evident in our accelerated growth rate since inception and our approximately 22 times Lifetime Value relative to our Customer Acquisition Cost for CLEAR Plus members who joined during 2022. It took seven years to reach our first million members, but less than one year to reach each subsequent million members (we added approximately 5 million members in 2022 alone). Our strong brand has enabled our expansion into new markets such as live sports and entertainment venues as well as digital health. Operational Expertise at Scale Today, our owned and operated businesses such as CLEAR Plus and mobile applications are the largest users of our platform. Operating and scaling our own consumer-facing service, CLEAR Plus, over the past 13 years has given us experience and capabilities that are hard to replicate, and an environment for innovation that benefits all of our partners. We have significant expertise implementing and seamlessly operating our platforms combination of pod hardware, 8 Table of Contents biometric technology and physical human interactions across 64 regulated or complex environments, such as airports and live sporting events. We also manage a growing ambassador and field manager part-time and full-time workforce of approximately 2,800 who are deployed across our expansive network of locations to implement our platform and continue to build our brand reputation. We combine our on-the-ground operational expertise with strong customer acquisition and retention, digital marketing, software and mobile application development and cybersecurity capabilities. Platform Originated in High Security Aviation Environment We started in aviation security, a regulated environment requiring a robust physical and information security posture. By building our platform in this context, we invested in, and were held accountable for, industry leading security, scalability and reliability. Our comprehensive information security program uses industry best practices with administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect against anticipated threats or hazards to the security, confidentiality or integrity of CLEAR systems and information. We are certified as Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology under the Support Anti-Terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (SAFETY Act) and FISMA High Rating compliant which governs requirements for protecting sensitive data by the DHS. We continue to operate in aviation security today, and we use a single platform across all our use cases, both for our owned and operated businesses, such as CLEAR Plus, and for the experiences offered by our partners. As such, we bring our high standards of security, scalability, and reliability to every environment in which members engage with CLEAR. Innovative and Scalable Platform We believe that the significant investments we have made in our technology platform are a key differentiator for our business. Our approximately 270 person technology team leads platform innovation inside CLEAR. We have spent more than 13 years to create our scalable and secure back-end and our easy-to-use consumer front-end. The scalability of our platform is demonstrated by our ability to quickly launch new features. For example, in 2022 we built a web experience that can be embedded into a partners native ecosystem so the partner can leverage our verification and enrollment technology. This web experience allows partners to use CLEAR's technology to verify their customers identities and provide friction-free experiences like account creation, login, age verification. Powerful Network Effects The power of network effects on our business model became evident as we added additional locations and our membership growth accelerated. Given the lengthy airport sales cycle and scarcity of airport real estate, it took us seven years to build a critical mass of airports to attract the first million members. Once we achieved this scale, the power of national network effects began to take hold. As the likelihood that a domestic traveler would have access to a CLEAR lane increased, the value proposition of our CLEAR Plus offering increased substantially. In 2015, we embarked on a strategy to add additional local CLEAR lanes at stadiums and live entertainment venues. This strategy created a second local network effect, increasing the value proposition of CLEAR Plus within a given city and meaningfully improving our member retention. The combination of these two powerful network effects drives both member growth and retention which we believe ultimately fuels our revenue growth. Over the past six years, our strategy expanded as our platforms capabilities have evolved. Our investment in our platform and products and the expanding scale of our membership have accelerated the addition of new partners that are further accelerating our membership growth and increasing verifications. Attractive Growth While Maintaining Disciplined Capital Allocation We have consistently focused on growth by investing in our secure identity platform, expanding our nationwide network and partnerships, adding talented team members and continuing to innovate. We are disciplined capital allocators and have achieved our current scale on net invested capital of approximately $50 million. Our business model is powered by network effects and characterized by efficient member acquisition and high retention rates. Our largest CLEAR Plus member acquisition channel is in-airport (representing 66%, 58% and 69% of member acquisitions for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively), where our prominent branding and expansive physical footprint allow prospective members to engage with CLEARs brand, ambassadors and technology firsthand. As we add partners, products and locations, our platform becomes more valuable to our members. This is evident by our approximately 22 times Lifetime Value relative to our Customer Acquisition Cost for CLEAR Plus members who joined during 2022. For our definitions of Lifetime Value and Customer Acquisition Cost and information about how we calculate these metrics, see Our Member Acquisition and Retention Strategy. Led by Experienced, Visionary Team CLEAR was founded in 2010 by Caryn Seidman-Becker, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Kenneth Cornick, our President and Chief Financial Officer. CLEAR is still executing on the original vision today, with Ms. Seidman-Becker and Mr. Cornick continuing to lead the business 13 years later. They are substantial owners of CLEAR and operate the business with the goal of long-term value creation. Ms. Seidman-Beckers and Mr. Cornicks prior 9 Table of Contents investment experience informs their efficient capital allocation strategy, and they have attracted a deeply experienced team to accelerate CLEARs next phase of growth. Our Growth Strategies We have a significant track record of member growth within our domestic aviation vertical, and our platform has numerous adjacencies for further expansion. Key elements of our growth strategy include: Grow CLEAR Plus Members: We see growth opportunities in our CLEAR Plus member base. We believe we can continue to open CLEAR lanes in new airports and new CLEAR lanes in our existing airports. As of December 31, 2022, our airport coverage is approximately 60% of 2022 TSA checkpoint volume. In December 2022, approximately 6% of all TSA checkpoint volume went through a CLEAR lane, compared to approximately 4% in December 2021. We also believe there are opportunities to continue to develop new features such as bag drop to improve the member and partner experience. Launch TSA PreCheck enrollment program: We believe our TSA PreCheck enrollment award will drive significant growth for TSAs program and a meaningful incremental revenue opportunity to CLEAR as we manage renewal processing and new enrollments for TSA PreCheck subscriptions. Our TSA PreCheck award also offers a significant top-of-funnel opportunity to acquire new CLEAR Plus members as we intend to offer a CLEAR/TSA PreCheck bundled product for customers who are new to both CLEAR and to TSA PreCheck. Expand our partnerships and distribution channels: We intend to continue to pursue commercial partners as a means to broaden our distribution channel reach and accelerate member growth. These partnerships and channels are likely to include new airlines, credit card partners, professional sports leagues and teams, digital marketplaces and retail enterprises. Expand into new verticals and products: We have already made significant progress expanding from aviation into select new verticals, including travel and hospitality, live sports and entertainment and healthcare. We plan to continue investing in each of these verticals to increase the growth of our platform, member base and our network locations where our members can use and our partners can integrate with CLEAR. We believe we have a proven platform business with numerous natural adjacencies and as our member base and product portfolio grows, we believe we will have the opportunity to grow into new verticals. This portfolio may include payments, location access, ticketing, age validation and health profiles. Acquisitions and corporate development opportunities: We may opportunistically pursue selective acquisitions and other corporate development opportunities to complement our existing platform capabilities and further accelerate our growth and platform adoption. In 2021, we acquired Whyline, Inc., a provider of virtual queuing and appointment technology, and Atlas Certified, an automated solution to verify professional licenses and certification data across industries. International expansion: Our platform is highly scalable and can be rapidly deployed in new markets. We believe that there is likely to be global demand for our secure identity platform. While in the near-term the North American market remains our highest priority, through our December 2021 acquisition of Whyline, Inc. we now provide services to partners across international markets including Argentina, Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Spain, Canada, Germany, Italy, and the Netherlands. Competition We compete for both our members and our partners. The market in which we operate is highly fragmented and characterized by high growth, shifting user preferences, and introductions of new services and offerings. Our primary competitors are offline alternatives, including manual security checks and screening processes. These alternatives tend to be costly and involve significant manpower, time and resources. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business, Brand and Operations We operate in a highly competitive market, and we may be unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors . Intellectual Property and Other Proprietary Rights Our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to our business. To establish and protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions, non-disclosure agreements, assignment agreements, and other legal and contractual rights with employees, contractors, and other third parties to establish and protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. 10 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2022, we have 47 issued United States patents (with six additional patents allowed) and 63 patent applications pending in the United States relating to certain aspects of our technology. We also have a limited number of patents issued and patent applications filed in other countries. Our issued patents expire between 2032 and 2041. As of December 31, 2022, we have three U.S. registered trademarks, and six trademark applications pending in the United States. These include registrations for the CLEAR name and other brand indicia. We also have registered the domain name www.clearme.com, and similar variations. We intend to pursue additional intellectual property protection to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost effective. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, they may not be respected in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented, deemed unenforceable or otherwise challenged. Further, even if we are successful in legal proceedings, unauthorized third parties may still copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology or infringe our copyrights and trademark rights. In addition, should we expand, the laws of various foreign countries where we may expand may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Companies engaged in related businesses or even unrelated businesses may have patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights which such companies may assert are infringed by our technology or business activities. From time to time, we face, and we expect to face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors and non-practicing entities. Should our business continue to grow, we will likely face more claims of infringement by third parties. We may become party to patent infringement claims and other intellectual property litigation and legal proceedings, all of which can be expensive and time consuming, and if resolved adverse to the Company, could have a significant impact on our business. See Legal Proceedings and Risk FactorsRisks Related to Information Technology and Intellectual Property. Employees Our organizations core values are: Embrace Change: Our growth requires that we embrace change. We pivot to overcome roadblocks and we are transparent on why decisions are made. Own It: CLEAR is an organization of doers. We own it by solving problems even if they arent ours to solve and commit to seeing them all the way through. Great People: From our ambassadors in the field, to our corporate team members, people are at the heart of all that we do. Obsessed with Member Experience: We are obsessed with our member experience. We love hearing from our members so that we can continuously improve and come back better for them every day. Speak Up: We believe in challenging fearlessly and embracing the brutal truth. We speak up by displaying honesty to our members, our team members, and ourselves. Indefatigable: We tirelessly pursue our goals with passion and sometimes no simply means not yet. Bias for Action: We encourage our team members to have a bias for action, using data to make calculated decisions. We have confidence in our decisions and learn from our mistakes. As of December 31, 2022, we had 3,056 full-time employees with our largest workforces in New York, Los Angeles and Atlanta. We compete to attract and retain diverse and highly talented individuals, particularly people with expertise in engineering, product development and marketing. Our ability to recruit talent benefits from our unique workplace culture and brand. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we consider our employee relations to be good. Government Regulation Data and Privacy Our business is subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations pertain to matters including but not limited to, the collection and use of biometric or health information, data privacy and information protection, labor and employment, intellectual property, consumer contracting and others, and are often complex and subject to varying interpretations. As a result, their application in practice may change or develop over time through judicial decisions or as new guidance or interpretations are provided by regulatory and governing bodies, such as federal, state and local administrative agencies. For example, California has passed a comprehensive data privacy law, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA), and other states including Virginia and Colorado have also passed 11 Table of Contents similar laws. Additionally, the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) took effect on January 1, 2023. CPRA imposes additional data protection obligations on covered businesses, including additional consumer rights procedures and obligations, limitations on data uses and new audit requirements. Further, there are several legislative proposals in the United States, at both the federal and state level, that could impose new privacy and security obligations. Certain states have laws that specifically regulate the collection and use of biometric information, such as Illinoiss Biometric Information Privacy Act (BIPA), and numerous states and municipalities are considering similar legislation. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulation and Litigation Any actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws relating to privacy and data protection may result in significant liability, negative publicity and erosion of trust, and increased regulation could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition . In addition, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), and their respective implementing regulations (collectively, HIPAA) impose specific requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of sensitive patient health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAAs security standards directly applicable to business associates. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulation and Litigation We function as a HIPAA business associate for certain of our health care partners and, as such, are subject to strict privacy and data security requirements. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, we could be subject to significant liability, which can adversely affect our business as well as our ability to attract and retain new members and their utilization of our platform . International Operations As we expand internationally we become subject to the regulatory regimes in other countries in which we operate, which may be equally or more complex. For example, through our December 2021 acquisition of Whyline, Inc., we now provide services to partners across international markets including Argentina, Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Spain, Canada, Germany, Italy, and the Netherlands, and are subject to the regulatory regimes in these countries as well. In addition, as we expand in Europe we are subject to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). GDPR took effect in May 2018 and includes operational requirements for companies that are established in the European Economic Area (EEA) or process personal data of individuals located in the EEA. These requirements govern the processing of personal data and include significant penalties for non-compliance. Additionally, the United Kingdom has transposed GDPR into domestic law with a United Kingdom version of GDPR (combining GDPR and the Data Protection Act of 2018) that took effect in January 2021, which exposes us to two parallel regimes, each of which authorizes similar fines and other potentially divergent enforcement actions for certain violations. The Brazilian General Data Protection Law took effect in August 2020 and imposes requirements similar to GDPR. Aviation Our airport operations are subject to standards promulgated by the federal government related to aviation security. These standards pertain to items such as checkpoint operations, enrollment and verification processes, employee hiring and training and information technology. We operate through the Registered Traveler Program according to guidelines set forth by the federal government which in some cases are overseen directly by the federal government and in some cases are overseen indirectly through our airport or airline partners. As we have grown, our regulatory frameworks have evolved as well. For example, as a result of our accelerated addition of new airport locations and offering of new functionality at airports (such as our biometric boarding pass service), we are subject to various audits, reviews and evaluations overseen by TSA, a sub-agency of the DHS. The DHS has certified our information security program at a FISMA High Rating (the highest designation according to the Federal Information Security Modernization Act). In addition, the system we use for the Registered Traveler program (Registered Traveler Program) and similar programs has been certified by the DHS as a Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology under the SAFETY Act. The SAFETY Act provides important legal liability protections for providers of qualified anti-terrorism products and services. Under the SAFETY Act, technology providers may apply to the DHS for coverage of the products and services. If granted coverage, such providers receive certain legal protections against product liability, professional liability and certain other claims that could arise following an act of terrorism. See Risk FactorsRisks Related to Regulation and Litigation We must continue to meet the standards set for our airport operations by governmental stakeholders and Liability protections provided by the SAFETY Act may be limited . The foregoing description does not include an exhaustive list of the laws and regulations governing or impacting our business. See the discussion contained in the Risk Factors section of this annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 (Annual Report on Form 10-K) for information regarding how actions by governmental stakeholders and regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have a material adverse effect on our business. 12 Table of Contents Corporate History The Company (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, CLEAR, we, us, our) is a holding company and its principal asset is the controlling equity interest in Alclear Holdings, LLC (Alclear) and its wholly owned subsidiaries. The Company, which was formed in connection with our initial public offering (IPO), was incorporated as a Delaware corporation on March 2, 2021, and Alclear was formed as a Delaware limited liability company on January 21, 2010. Pursuant to the terms of the Amended and Restated Operating Agreement dated June 29, 2021 (the Operating Agreement), as the sole managing member of Alclear, the Company operates and controls all of the business and affairs of Alclear, and through Alclear and its subsidiaries, conducts the Companys business. The Reorganization Transactions Prior to the completion of our IPO, we consummated an internal reorganization, which we refer to as the reorganization transactions. Prior to the commencement of the reorganization transactions, Alclear had limited liability company interests outstanding in the form of Class A units, Class B units and profit units. Prior to the consummation of the reorganization transactions and our IPO, all of Alclears outstanding equity interests, including its Class A units, Class B units and profit units, were owned by the following persons, whom we refer to collectively as the CLEAR Pre-IPO Members: Alclear Investments, LLC, an entity controlled by Ms. Seidman-Becker, which we refer to as Alclear Investments; Alclear Investments II, LLC, an entity controlled by Mr. Cornick, which we refer to as Alclear Investments II and which we refer to collectively with Alclear Investments as the Founder Post-IPO Members; our other pre-IPO investors, including certain strategic alliance partners; and certain of our current and former employees, members of management, service providers and members of the board of managers of Alclear. Prior to the reorganization transactions, Alclear made a distribution of an immaterial amount to certain CLEAR Pre-IPO Members for the purpose of funding their tax obligations for periods prior to the pricing of our IPO. In connection with the reorganization transactions, the following steps occurred: we became the sole managing member of Alclear; certain warrants of Alclear exercisable prior to our IPO, to the extent not exercised by the holders thereof at their discretion, were automatically exercised for Class B units of Alclear; we amended and restated Alclears Operating Agreement and provided that, among other things, all of Alclears outstanding equity interests, including its Class A units, Class B units and profit units (including unvested time-based profit units), be reclassified into non-voting common units (Alclear Units). The number of Alclear Units issued to each member of Alclear was determined based on a hypothetical liquidation of Alclear and the initial public offering price per share of our Class A Common Stock (as defined below) in our IPO, as well as a unit split to optimize the Companys capital structure to facilitate our IPO; we amended and restated our certificate of incorporation (as amended and restated, Certificate of Incorporation) and are authorized to issue four classes of common stock: Class A common stock, $0.00001 par value per share (the Class A Common Stock), Class B common stock, $0.00001 par value per share (the Class B Common Stock), Class C common stock, $0.00001 par value per share (the Class C Common Stock) and Class D common stock, $0.00001 par value per share (the Class D Common Stock and, collectively with the Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and Class C Common Stock, the Common Stock). The Class A Common Stock and Class C Common Stock each provides holders with one vote per share on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, and the Class B Common Stock and Class D Common Stock each provides holders with 20 votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. The holders of Class C Common Stock and Class D Common Stock do not have any of the economic rights (including rights to dividends and distributions upon liquidation) provided to holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. These attributes are summarized in the following table: Class of Common Stock Votes Economic Rights Class A Common Stock 1 Yes Class B Common Stock 20 Yes Class C Common Stock 1 No Class D Common Stock 20 No 13 Table of Contents Shares of our Common Stock generally vote together as a single class on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders; certain other warrants of Alclear were either, in accordance with their terms, (i) exchanged for new warrants representing the right to receive Class A Common Stock or (ii) remained at Alclear and continue to be exercisable for Alclear Units; Founder Post-IPO Members contributed a portion of their Alclear Units to the Company in exchange for Class B Common Stock; certain CLEAR Pre-IPO Members contributed their Alclear Units to the Company in exchange for Class A Common Stock; outstanding restricted stock units and unvested performance-based profit units in Alclear were substituted with restricted stock units representing the right to receive our Class A Common Stock following the applicable vesting date; we formed subsidiaries that merged with and into certain entities that were treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes in which certain CLEAR Pre-IPO Members held interests (the Blocker Corporations and the CLEAR Pre-IPO Members who held interests in the Blocker Corporations, the Blocker Stockholders), and the surviving entities then merged with and into the Company. We refer to these transactions as the Mergers. As consideration for the Mergers, we issued to the Blocker Stockholders shares of our Class A Common Stock. We refer to the Blocker Stockholders as the Blocker Post-IPO Stockholders and the Blocker Post-IPO Stockholders and the Other Post-IPO Stockholders collectively as the Investor Post-IPO Stockholders. The number of shares of Class A Common Stock issued to the Blocker Post-IPO Stockholders was based on the number of Alclear Units that we acquired; the CLEAR Post-IPO Members subscribed for and purchased shares of our Common Stock as follows, in each case at a purchase price of $0.00001 per share and in an amount equal to the number of Alclear Units held by each such CLEAR Post-IPO Member: Alclear Investments purchased 19,630,246 shares of our Class D Common Stock; Alclear Investments II purchased 7,079,575 shares of our Class D Common Stock; and the other CLEAR Post-IPO Members purchased an aggregate of 44,598,167 shares of our Class C Common Stock; and subject to certain restrictions, the Founder Post-IPO Members were granted the right to exchange their Alclear Units, together with a corresponding number of shares of our Class D Common Stock, for, at our option, (i) shares of our Class B Common Stock or (ii) cash from a substantially concurrent public offering or private sale of Class A Common Stock (based on the market price of our Class A Common Stock in such public offering or private sale), and the other CLEAR Post-IPO Members were granted the right to exchange their Alclear Units, together with a corresponding number of shares of our Class C Common Stock, for, at our option, (i) shares of our Class A Common Stock or (ii) cash from a substantially concurrent public offering or private sale of Class A Common Stock (based on the market price of our Class A Common Stock in such public offering or private sale). Each share of our Class B Common Stock and Class D Common Stock is convertible at any time, at the option of the holder, into one share of Class A Common Stock or Class C Common Stock, respectively. Furthermore, pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation, each share of our Class B Common Stock will automatically convert into one share of Class A Common Stock and each share of our Class D Common Stock will automatically convert into one share of our Class C Common Stock upon the occurrence of certain events as described in Exhibit 4.1Description of Capital StockCommon StockConversion, Transferability and Exchange. Available Information Our internet address is www.clearme.com and the investor relations section of our web site is located at www.ir.clearme.com. We make available free of charge, on or through the investor relations section of our web site, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to the SEC. Also posted on our web site are our by-laws, our Certificate of Incorporation, and the charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our board of directors (the Board). In addition, our web site includes information concerning purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive officers and directors, as well as disclosure relating to certain non-GAAP financial measures (as defined in Regulation G) promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) that we may make public orally, telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar 14 Table of Contents means from time to time. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference unless specifically referenced herein. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and therefore file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. To the extent required by the SEC's rules and regulations, we intend to post amendments to or waivers from, if any, provisions of our Code of Conduct and Ethics (to the extent applicable to our directors, principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer) at this location on our website. Our stockholders may also obtain these documents in paper format free of charge upon request made to our Investor Relations Department. Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at Clear Secure, Inc., 85 10th Avenue, New York, NY 10011, Attn: Investor Relations, e-mail: ir@clearme.com. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Summary The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. For a more complete discussion of the material risks facing our business, please see below. failure to add new and retain existing members, increase CLEAR Plus memberships or increase the utilization of our platform; failure to add new partners, retain existing partners or profit from partner relationships; our inability to maintain the value and reputation of our brand; risks associated with our financial performance, including the risk of increased expenses and net losses in the near term and our ability to achieve profitability in the future; failure to successfully compete against existing and future competitors, and the highly competitive market in which we operate; risks associated with the increased adoption of new technological solutions and services, including third-party identity verification solutions and credential authentication solutions, at locations where we operate or may operate in the future; public confidence in, and acceptance of, identity platforms and biometrics generally, and our platform specifically; risks associated with our commercial agreements and strategic alliances, as well as potential indemnification obligations, and certain of our agreements with third parties; risks associated with our growth and ability to develop and introduce platform features and offerings; risks associated with any decline or disruption in the travel industry or a general economic downturn; risks associated with breaches of our information technology systems, protection of our intellectual property, technology and confidential information and failures by third-party technology and devices on which our business relies; our reliance on third-party technology and information systems to help complete critical business functions and our ability to find alternatives if such third-party technology and information systems fail; limitations of the SAFETY Acts liability protections; our ability to meet the standards set for our airport operations by governmental stakeholders; and failure to comply with the constantly evolving laws and regulations that we are subject to or may become subject to. Risks Related to Our Business, Brand and Operations If we fail to add new and retain existing members, increase CLEAR Plus memberships or increase the utilization of our platform, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our business and financial results depend significantly on adding new members, retaining existing members, increasing the number of CLEAR Plus members, including by converting non-paying members to paying members, and the utilization of our platform by our members. There can be no assurances that we will be successful at accomplishing any of the foregoing. Member growth, retention and utilization of our platform is in part dependent on our ability to introduce new 15 Table of Contents services to our members, to expand our airport footprint, to promote and increase awareness of our existing and new offerings and to satisfy or exceed the expectations of our members with our platform and offerings. We have derived substantially all of our historical revenue from CLEAR Plus, our consumer aviation subscription service. To grow and diversify our revenue, we will need to increase the number of paying members. Failure to do so could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to attract and retain members, as well as to increase the number of CLEAR Plus members and the utilization of our platform by our members, could be materially adversely affected by a number of factors discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors, including: increased competition and use of our competitors platforms and services; our failure to maintain our existing or provide new or enhanced offerings that members value; our failure to attract new partners who in turn drive membership; negative associations or perceptions with, reduced awareness of, or negative publicity about, our brand, platform or biometrics in general; security incidents that may involve or are alleged to involve us, such as breaches of our information technology systems or other security incidents that may involve or are alleged to involve us; and macroeconomic and other conditions and events outside of our control, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, other pandemics and health concerns, decreased levels of travel or attendance at events, terrorism, war or military actions, civil unrest, political instability and general economic conditions, including an economic downturn, recession, financial instability, inflation or changes in consumer tastes and preferences. In addition, if members stop trusting our platform or have an unsatisfactory experience with our platform or our ambassadors, such as during an enrollment or verification, or we are unable to offer new and relevant offerings and features, we could be unsuccessful at continuing to grow our membership or expanding the use of our platform. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to add new or retain existing partners, or profit from partner relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The growth of our business, including our membership base, geographic footprint and financial results, also depends on adding new partners and retaining existing partners, as well as increasing the revenue generated from both new and existing paying partners. Our partners help increase our opportunities to attract new members and in some cases help subsidize new and existing memberships. However, we may be unsuccessful at adding new partners, retaining existing partners or monetizing our partner relationships, and our success is subject to a number of the risks that we face in expanding our membership base. See If we fail to add new and retain existing members, increase CLEAR Plus memberships or increase the utilization of our platform, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected above. If our partners stop trusting our platform or they or our members have an unsatisfactory experience with our platform, we are unable to offer new and relevant offerings and features or we are unable to increase the adoption of our platform, we could be unsuccessful at continuing to grow our partner network or increase the revenue generated from existing partners, which could hamper our prospects. This could in turn have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our membership base. If certain partners that subsidize new and existing memberships do not renew their agreements with us we could lose a portion of the members whose memberships are subsidized, which could impact our revenue and retention rate. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to meet evolving stakeholder expectations or to maintain the value and reputation of our brand, our business and financial results may be harmed. We believe that our brand is important to attracting and retaining members and partners. Our business and prospects are dependent on our ability to build, maintain and expand trust in our brand and our platform from a variety of different stakeholders. Building and maintaining our brand depends on our ability to provide consistent, high-quality services to our members and partners. It also requires us to understand the evolving expectations of our stakeholders rapidly, and to adjust our offerings to meet them. An inability to accurately understand the expectations of our stakeholders or forecast changes in such expectations, or any failure to meet the expectations of our stakeholders, could have a material adverse effect on our brand, and therefore on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, our members expect us to protect their personal information, including their biometric information and health information, and provide them with safe, reliable, predictable and frictionless experiences where they choose to use our platform. Our partners expect us to build and maintain a world-class secure technology infrastructure and accurately perform the services for which they depend on us, such as correctly identifying a member at their point of use and correctly connecting a member with their 16 Table of Contents boarding pass, event ticket or health credential. Aviation industry stakeholders such as our airline, airport and governmental partners expect us to continue to enhance aviation security. Failure to meet these continuously evolving stakeholder expectations could diminish the trust in our brand and platform. While it is our mission to continue to build and expand the trust in our brand and our platform from all stakeholders, any actual or perceived failure to do so could result in a decreased number of members, decreased use of our platform by our members, slower growth in our platform and business than we expect, a discontinuation of our partnerships and relationships, and a negative impact on our ability to expand into other sectors or industries, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive market, and we may be unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors. Our market is intensely competitive with respect to every aspect of our business, and we expect competition to increase in the future from established businesses and new market entrants. We anticipate that both our existing and future services and our expansion into new verticals will face competition from a variety of other companies and organizations. Other companies may strive or choose to perform services related to confirming an individuals identity as a standalone task or related to a specific transaction, which would increase the competition we currently face. For example, large, well-established technology platforms, such as Amazon, Apple, Facebook or Google, or well-known companies in the credit card industry could acquire, develop or expand a platform that competes directly with some or all of our solutions. Other potential competitors include providers of decentralized identity verification platforms or verification services. Additionally, biometric hardware companies and platform companies that also offer hardware may develop applications that directly or indirectly compete with our platform. We face competition from two other private entities that are authorized to compete with us in enrolling members on TSAs behalf for TSA PreCheck. Many other companies, including larger well-established companies, are providing or developing services similar to our Health Pass offering. Moreover, certain states, including New York, have put in place programs, including software applications and information technology, that allow their users to validate vaccination status or COVID-19 test results and to demonstrate this information to third parties. We also face indirect competition from solutions that could be developed in-house by our existing and future partners, including companies in the airline and entertainment industries, and by governmental agencies, which could result in lost revenues and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition and longer operating histories, economies of scale, larger sales and marketing departments, budgets and resources, broader distribution and established relationships with channel partners and customers, greater customer support resources, greater resources to make acquisitions or to spend on research and development, lower labor and development costs, larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. Additionally, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and could leverage their relationships based on other products they offer or incorporate functionality into, or completely repurpose, existing products or offerings to gain business or have other advantages that can allow them to develop and deploy new solutions more quickly than we do. Start-up companies that innovate and large competitors that are making significant investments in research and development may invent similar or superior products and technologies that compete with our solutions. Acquisitions of our competitors by companies that have more resources than us could have a negative impact on our competitive position. Some of our competitors may enter into alliances with each other or other companies or governmental agencies, or may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with system integrators, third-party consulting firms or other parties. Any such consolidation, acquisitions, alliances or cooperative relationships could lead to pricing pressure and loss of market share and could result in one or more competitors with greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources, all of which could harm our competitive position. Furthermore, organizations may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing infrastructure from our competitors than to replace their existing infrastructure with our solutions. These competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in fewer members and partners and reduced revenue and gross margins. Any failure to meet and address these factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increased adoption of new technological solutions and services, including third-party identity verification solutions and credential authentication solutions, at locations where we operate or may operate in the future could impact our business. Private industry and governmental agencies have increased their efforts related to developing and launching identity verification solutions and credential authentication solutions, and we expect this trend to continue. For example, certain airlines, technology providers and TSA are exploring new technological solutions, in some cases including the use of identity verification technology or biometrics, that may gain widespread acceptance in locations where we operate, such as airports, or where we may operate in the future. 17 Table of Contents For example, the federal government has conducted a number of proof of concept demonstrations to evaluate identity verification technologies and other credential authentication technologies at airport checkpoints, intends to expand use of its own biometric credential authentication technologies at additional airport checkpoints, and is continuing to explore digital identities at checkpoints generally. State governments are issuing drivers licenses in digital formats. Additionally, airlines have launched their own identity and credential authentication initiatives, in some cases with other identity verification partners. In many cases these initiatives also include use of biometrics, either via centralized or decentralized platforms, and any of these platforms or standards may become universally accepted and preferred by the industry, the TSA, airlines, and our other partners. Widespread adoption of competing identity verification solutions or credential authentication solutions or standards (including TSAs own solutions) at airport checkpoints or other locations where we operate could adversely impact our ability to operate in the same manner as we operate today. Public confidence in, and acceptance of, identity platforms and biometrics generally, and our platform specifically, will be a key factor in our businesss continued growth. Our future profitability will depend, in part, on public confidence in and acceptance of identity platforms and biometrics generally. Continued acceptance of identity platforms and biometric information as a secure and reliable method to identify individuals, mitigate risk and minimize fraud is an important factor in our continued growth. While both identity platforms and biometrics have become more widely adopted, they may not achieve universal acceptance. The attractiveness of our solutions to members, partners and the venues where we operate is impacted by a number of factors, including the willingness of individuals to provide their personal information, including biometric information, to private or governmental entities, the level of confidence that such information can be stored safely and securely, and trust that such information will not be misused or breached. Certain individuals may never accept the use of biometrics as being safe. If identity platforms and biometrics do not achieve universal acceptance, our growth could be limited, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We might not implement successful strategies to increase adoption of our platform or expand into new verticals, which would limit our growth. Our future profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully implement our strategies to increase adoption of our platform, expand into new verticals and develop new offerings. We cannot assure you that the relatively new market for our platform and certain of our existing and proposed offerings will remain viable. The market for identity verification solutions is still developing. The evolution of this market may result in the development of different technologies and industry standards that are not compatible with our current solutions, products, technologies or platform. Several organizations set standards for biometrics to be used in identification and standards continue to develop related to storage of biometric information or identity information. Although we believe that our technologies comply with existing standards, these standards may change and any standards adopted could prove disadvantageous to or incompatible with our business model and current or future solutions, products, services and platform. Our recent growth has been accelerated by our expansion from the aviation industry into new verticals, including travel and hospitality, live events and sports and healthcare. Our business strategies include expanding our platform and member base within these verticals and successfully identifying and expanding into new verticals. There can be no assurances that we will be able to expand our business within existing verticals or successfully identify and expand into new verticals, or that any new verticals will provide us with successful opportunities and relationships. Implementing our growth strategies will require additional resources and investments. For example, we expect to invest substantial amounts to: drive member and partner awareness of our platform; encourage new members to sign up for and use our platform; encourage businesses to introduce our platform; enhance our information security infrastructure; enhance our infrastructure to handle seamless processing; continue to develop state of the art technology; and diversify our partner base. We may be required to incur significantly higher expenditures, including marketing, research and development, and compensation, than we currently anticipate to achieve the foregoing results. Such expenditures could have a greater negative impact on our results of operations if our revenues do not increase sufficiently. Our investments may not be successful and there can be no assurances that our growth strategies and plans will be achieved. Our commercial agreements and strategic alliances, as well as potential indemnification obligations, expose us to risk. 18 Table of Contents We provide our platform to our partners through commercial agreements and strategic alliances. These arrangements can be complex and require substantial personnel and other resource commitments, which may limit the number of partners we can serve. If we are unable to quickly scale our business, or if we do not effectively manage our infrastructure and personnel capacity as we grow, we may not be able to achieve our growth plans. Furthermore, there could be a negative impact on existing alliances and business relationships. Additionally, certain of our agreements with airports, airlines, airport governing authorities, sports teams, arenas, event venues and other partners and third parties include indemnification for losses suffered or incurred for a variety of reasons, such as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, breaches of confidentiality, violations of law, security requirements, damage caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from the use of our platform or other acts or omissions. These provisions often survive termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. As we continue to grow, the possibility of infringement claims and other claims against us may increase. In connection with indemnification claims against us or our current or prior partners, we may incur significant legal expenses and may have to pay damages, settlement fees or license fees or stop using technology found to be in violation of the rights of one or more third-parties. These payments, if significant, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also have to seek a license for the infringing or allegedly infringing technology. Such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, and may significantly increase our operating expenses or may require us to restrict our business activities and limit our ability to deploy certain offerings. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and/or cause us to alter our platform or solutions, which could negatively affect our business. Even if third-party claims against us lack merit, the expense and effort related to defending ourselves against these claims could be costly and time consuming. Any assertions by a third party, whether or not meritorious or successful, with respect to such indemnification obligations could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation, expensive remediation and licenses, divert management attention and financial resources, harm our relationship with that customer, reduce demand for our platform and result in our brand, business, results of operations and financial condition being adversely affected. Under certain of our commercial agreements, the total amount of compensation we receive is partially dependent on the level of use at the relevant location, because we receive payment for each individual who uses our platform at that site. Usage levels are due to a number of factors including many that are beyond our control, and if usage is lower than anticipated, the compensation we receive may be lower than expected. As our agreements terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. We may in the future be required to enter into amendments or new agreements on less favorable terms, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Portions of our business and results of operations depend upon concessionaire agreements. A significant portion of our business involves providing our services at U.S. airports through the federal governments Registered Traveler Program. These services involve entering into concessionaire agreements with the airport or airport operators in which we operate. As is common with airport concessionaire agreements, our counterparties reserve the right to terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of certain events or for convenience. If our counterparties do not extend these agreements, or if they decide to exercise an early termination, our sales, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted. In addition, in certain airport locations our contract counterparty is an airline rather than the airport or airport governing authority. In these locations we are dependent on the continued partnership with these airlines in supporting our physical presence at the airport checkpoint. The exit of an airline partner from a certain market, or changes in our relationships with these airline partners could result in our agreements not being extended or renewed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and could affect our growth opportunities. If we are not able to manage our growth or continue innovating, our business could be adversely affected. We have expanded rapidly since we launched our platform in 2010, and our business growth depends on the continued expansion of our membership, network of partners and services. Our expansion and growth plans may not be successful and any future expansion will likely place demands on our managerial, operational, technological, administrative and financial resources. If we are not able to respond effectively to new or increased demands that arise because of our growth, or, if in responding, our management is materially distracted from our current operations, our business and prospects may be adversely affected. In addition, while we seek to develop new offerings and expand into new markets and industries, we may have limited or no experience in these market segments and industries, and our members may not adopt our product or service offerings. We may incur significant expense in our attempts to innovate and create new offerings, and these attempts may ultimately not be successful. New offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to claims if members of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. In addition, profitability, if 19 Table of Contents any, in our newer activities may not meet our expectations, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them. Failure to realize the benefits of amounts we invest in new technologies, products or services could result in the value of those investments being written down or written off. If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences or requirements and successfully develop and introduce new, innovative and updated platform features or offerings in a timely manner or effectively manage the introduction of new or enhanced platform features or offerings, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our success in maintaining and increasing our member base depends in part on our ability to identify use cases that are important to our members in a timely manner. If we are unable to introduce new or enhanced platform features in a timely manner or our features are not accepted by our members, potential competitors may introduce similar offerings faster than us or operate in new locations, which could negatively affect our results. Moreover, our new features may not receive consumer acceptance as preferences could shift rapidly to different types of solutions or away from these types of offerings altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. Even if we are successful in anticipating needs and consumer preferences, our ability to address them will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce innovative, high-quality features. Development of new or enhanced features may require significant time and investment, which could result in increased costs and a reduction in our profit margins. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a result of government-mandated school and business closings, quarantines, shelter at home orders, restrictions on travel, limitations on social or public gatherings and other social distancing measures beginning in March 2020 through the majority of the 2021 fiscal year, the COVID-19 pandemic limited our growth in airports and in other areas, such as the entertainment industry and events. As a result of COVID-19, in 2020, we experienced a decrease in enrollments for our airport service and a decrease in membership renewals and our Annual CLEAR Plus Net Member Retention declined to 78.8% in fiscal year 2020 (compared to 86.2% in fiscal year 2019 and 92.3% in fiscal year 2022). Even as these restrictions are lifted, and demand for travel and entertainment has increased, our operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by government regulations, and the social distancing practices and health concerns of our guests and employees. In light of the evolving nature of COVID-19 and the uncertainty it has produced around the world, we do not believe it is possible to predict the cumulative, future and ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our future business, results of operations and financial condition. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial results will depend largely on future developments that are outside of our control, including the duration and extent of the spread of COVID-19 both globally and within the United States, the availability and uptake of COVID-19 vaccines, the success of the COVID-19 vaccines against future variants, the prevalence of local, national and international travel restrictions, flight volumes, local and national restrictions on the attendance of events, such as shelter at home orders, the impact on capital and financial markets and on the U.S. and global economies, governmental or regulatory orders that impact our business, and changes in customers travel preferences as well as the availability of other services in the travel in industry in response to the foregoing, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. In addition, we cannot predict the impact the COVID-19 pandemic has had and will have on our partners and third-party vendors and service providers, and we may continue to be adversely impacted as a result of the material adverse impact that COVID-19 has had and may have on our partners, such as certain airlines, sports teams and third-party vendors. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact their or our business, results of operations and financial condition, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the foregoing factors, or other cascading effects of the COVID-19 pandemic that are not currently foreseeable, could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any decline or disruption in the travel industry or general economic downturn could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have derived substantially all of our historical revenue from members who enroll in CLEAR Plus, which includes our Registered Traveler Program service at U.S. airports, and one of our growth strategies is to continue expanding in our domestic aviation network. Accordingly, our performance is dependent on the strength of the travel industry. Our revenue is therefore susceptible to declines in or disruptions to leisure and business travel that may be caused by factors entirely out of our control, such as COVID-19 and the risks it presents as described above. Additionally, platform usage beyond airports is driven by venues being open and holding events and workplaces being open for workers. Other events or factors beyond our control can disrupt travel and events within the United States and globally or otherwise result in declines in travel demand and the demand to attend events. These events include prolonged extreme weather, natural disasters or man-made disasters, travel-related health concerns (including pandemics and epidemics, such as COVID-19, Monkeypox, Ebola, Zika, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome or other outbreak of contagious diseases), restrictions related to travel, stay-at-home orders, wars and military actions, terrorist attacks, sources of political uncertainty or political events, protests, foreign policy changes, regional hostilities, general economic conditions, increases in ticket prices, changes in regulations, labor unrest or travel-related accidents. Because these events or concerns, and the full impact of their effects, are largely 20 Table of Contents unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior and attendance at events by consumers, and therefore demand for our airport and events services, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, as the Real ID Act will require passengers having compliant identification to travel by air in the United States by May 7, 2025, such regulation, if not extended, may decrease the number of travelers with compliant identification and, therefore, negatively impact the demand for our airport services, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial performance is also subject to global economic conditions and their impact on levels of discretionary consumer spending. Consumer preferences tend to shift to lower-cost alternatives during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected, which could lead to a decline in enrollments or renewals of CLEAR Plus and lower attendance at events, and thus result in decreasing platform usage and lower revenue. Downturns in worldwide or regional economic conditions, such as the downturn resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation, and the potential for a recession, have led to a general decrease in travel and travel spending, as well as discretionary spending on events, and similar downturns in the future may materially adversely impact demand for our platform and services. Such a shift in consumer behavior would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may require additional capital to support business growth and objectives, and this capital might not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all, and may result in stockholder dilution. We expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with our net proceeds from our IPO, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. However, we intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional capital to fund our business and to respond to competitive challenges, including the need to promote our platform, products and services, develop new platform features, products and services, enhance our existing platform, products, services and operating infrastructure, and potentially to acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. There can be no assurance that such additional funding will be available on terms attractive to us, or at all. Our inability to obtain additional funding when needed could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, holders of our Class A Common Stock could suffer significant dilution, and any new shares we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our Class A Common Stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions, and could impose additional restrictions on our ability to make distributions or pay dividends to our stockholders, or make it less likely that our Board will declare such distributions or dividends. Our ability to introduce new solutions and features is dependent on adequate research and development resources and may also depend on our ability to successfully complete acquisitions. If we do not adequately fund our research and development efforts or complete acquisitions successfully, we may not be able to compete effectively and our business and results of operations may be harmed. To remain competitive, we must continue to offer new solutions and enhancements to our platform. This is particularly true as we further expand and diversify our capabilities. Maintaining adequate research and development resources, such as the appropriate personnel and development technology, to meet member, partner and market demands is essential. If we elect not to or are unable to develop solutions internally due to certain constraints, such as high employee turnover, lack of management ability or a lack of other research and development resources, we may choose to, or be required to, expand into a certain market or strategy via an acquisition for which we could potentially pay too much or fail to successfully integrate into our operations. Our failure to maintain adequate research and development resources or to compete effectively with the research and development programs of our competitors would give an advantage to such competitors and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Moreover, there is no assurance that our research and development or acquisition efforts will successfully anticipate market needs and result in significant new marketable solutions or enhancements to our solutions, design improvements, cost savings, revenues or other expected benefits. If we are unable to generate an adequate return on such investments, we may not be able to compete effectively and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Future acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships or alliances could be difficult to identify and integrate, divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our results of operations and financial condition. We may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our current platform, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve risks, including the commitment of significant capital, the incurrence of indebtedness, the payment of advances, the diversion of managements attention and resources from our existing business to develop and successfully integrate the acquired or combined business, the inability to successfully integrate such business or assets into our operations, litigation or other claims in connection with acquisitions or against companies we invest in or acquire, our lack of control over certain companies, including joint ventures and other 21 Table of Contents minority investments, the risk of not achieving the intended results and the exposure to losses if the underlying transactions or ventures are not successful. This risk is enhanced considering we have little experience in acquiring other businesses. We may not be able to find and identify desirable acquisition targets or we may not be successful in entering into an agreement with any one target. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could harm our results of operations. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Our business depends on retaining and attracting high-quality personnel, including certain key personnel, and continued attrition, future attrition or unsuccessful succession planning could adversely affect our business. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain high-quality management, operations, engineering and other personnel who are in high demand, as well as our ambassadors. The loss of qualified executives, employees or ambassadors, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate high-quality executives, employees and ambassadors required for the planned expansion of our business, may harm our operating results and impair our ability to grow. In addition, we depend on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ms. Seidman-Becker, and our President and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Cornick, who founded our Company and have been instrumental in devising and implementing our strategies for growth and scaling our business. We do not have employment agreements with Ms. Seidman-Becker, Mr. Cornick or other key members of our senior management team, who remain at-will employees. As these individuals are able to terminate their employment with us at any time, such termination could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our future prospects. Certain key members of our management team have a shorter employment history at our company and did not previously work within our industry. Recently hired executives may view our business differently than members of our prior management team and, over time, may make changes to our personnel and their responsibilities as well as our strategic focus, operations or business plans. We may not be able to properly manage any such shift in focus, and any changes to our business may ultimately prove unsuccessful. In addition, our failure to put in place adequate succession plans for senior and key management roles or the failure of key employees to successfully transition into new roles could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. The unexpected or abrupt departure of one or more of our key personnel and the failure to effectively transfer knowledge and effect smooth key personnel transitions has had and may in the future have an adverse effect on our business resulting from the loss of such persons skills, knowledge of our business and years of industry experience. If we cannot effectively manage leadership transitions and management changes in the future, our reputation and future business prospects could be adversely affected. To attract and retain key personnel, we use equity incentives, among other measures. These measures may not be sufficient to attract and retain the personnel we require to operate our business effectively. As we continue to mature, the equity incentives we currently use to attract, retain and motivate employees may not be as effective as in the past. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees may be adversely affected by declines in our stock price. If we issue significant equity to attract employees or to retain our existing employees, we would incur substantial additional equity-based compensation expense and the ownership of our existing stockholders would be further diluted. Our platform is highly complex, and any undetected errors, systems failures or our failure to successfully implement upgrades and new technology could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our platform is a complex system composed of many interoperating components and software. Our business is dependent upon our ability to accurately confirm identities and provide the ability to connect attributes, such as boarding passes, tickets, health information or payment information, to these identities, with minimal system interruption. Our software may now or in the future contain undetected errors, bugs or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code have not been and may not be discovered until after the code has been released. We have, from time to time, found defects or errors in our system and software limitations that have resulted in, and may discover additional issues in the future that could result in, operational errors, platform unavailability or system disruption. In addition, we may fail to detect bugs in software of businesses we acquire in our integration process. Any real or perceived errors, bugs or vulnerabilities discovered in our code or systems released to production or found in third-party software that is incorporated into our code could result in poor system performance, an interruption in the availability of our platform, systems or websites (including our ability to sell our memberships online), data loss, errors in completing enrollments or verifications, negative publicity, damage to our reputation, loss of existing and potential members or partners, and loss of revenue, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the ability of our members to use our platform could be diminished by a number of factors, including members inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems, ineffective interoperability between our platform and our partners technology, security incidents or variability in member traffic for our platform. Platform failures would be most impactful if they occurred during peak platform use periods. During these peak periods, there are a significant number of members concurrently accessing our platform and if we are unable to provide 22 Table of Contents uninterrupted access, our members perception of our platforms reliability may be damaged, our revenue could be reduced, our reputation could be harmed and we may be required to issue credits or refunds, or risk losing members. In the event we experience significant disruptions, we may be unable to repair our systems in an efficient and timely manner which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, as we grow, we continue to implement modifications and upgrades to our systems, and these activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and upgrading these systems. Further, our system implementations may not result in improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. If we fail to successfully implement modifications and upgrades or expand the functionality of our platform, we could experience increased costs associated with diminished productivity and operating inefficiencies related to the efficient delivery of our products and services. Our marketing efforts to help grow our business may not be effective. Promoting awareness of our platform is important to our ability to grow our business and to attract new members and partners, and can be costly. While much of our growth is attributable to word of mouth and member referrals, our marketing efforts may include free or discount trials, affiliate programs, partnerships, display advertising, television, billboards, radio, video, content, social media, email, search engine optimization and keyword search campaigns. If our marketing efforts are not successful in promoting awareness of our offerings or attracting new members and partners, or if we are not able to cost-effectively manage our marketing expenses, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If our marketing efforts are successful in increasing awareness of our offerings, this could also lead to increased public scrutiny of our business. Any of the foregoing risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely impacted by changes in the Internet browsers and mobile device accessibility of members. Our business depends on members access to our platform via a mobile device, an Internet browser and the Internet generally. We may operate in jurisdictions that provide limited Internet connectivity, particularly as we expand internationally. Internet access, internet browsers and access to a mobile device are frequently provided by companies with significant market power that could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of members ability to access our platform. In addition, the Internet infrastructure that we and members of our platform rely on in any particular location may be unable to support the demands placed upon it. Any such failure in Internet, browser or mobile device accessibility, even for a short period of time, could adversely affect our results of operations. In particular, a significant and growing portion of our members access our platform through the CLEAR mobile application (the app) and through our secure identity platform, Powered by CLEAR. There is no guarantee that popular mobile devices and browsers will continue to support such platform, app or service, or that our members will use our platform or app rather than competing products. We are dependent on the interoperability of our app with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as Android and iOS, and Powered by CLEAR with popular internet browsers. Any changes in such systems that degrade the functionality of our digital offerings or give preferential treatment to competitors could adversely affect our platforms usage. In the event that it is difficult for our members to access and use our platform, our competitors develop products and services that are perceived to operate more effectively, or if our members choose not to access or use our platform or use mobile products that do not offer access to our platform, our member growth and member engagement could be adversely impacted. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, our business may be harmed. We believe that our corporate culture has been a critical component to our success and that our culture creates an environment that drives and perpetuates our overall business strategy. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team and we expect to continue to hire aggressively as we expand, including with respect to any potential international expansions we may pursue. As we grow and mature as a public company and grow internationally, we may find it difficult to maintain our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to recruit and retain personnel and effectively focus on and pursue our business strategy. We are subject to payment processing risk. Our members pay for our products and services using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, and online wallets. We rely on third party systems to process payments. Acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. To the extent there are disruptions in our payment processing systems, increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors, or changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operation could be adversely impacted. We leverage our third-party payment processors to bill members on our behalf. If these third parties become unwilling or unable to continue processing payments on our behalf, we would have to find alternative methods of collecting payments, which could adversely impact member acquisition and retention. In addition, 23 Table of Contents from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operation and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative consumer perceptions of our service. Our business may be vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, which may negatively impact our operations. Our primary locations may be vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. Extreme weather conditions may disrupt our business and may cause us to experience additional costs to maintain or resume operations and higher attrition. In addition, current and emerging legal and regulatory requirements with respect to climate change and other aspects of environmental, social, governance and other sustainability (ESG) (e.g., disclosure requirements) may result in increased compliance requirements on our business, which may increase our operating costs and cause disruptions in our operations. We are dependent on CLEAR Plus memberships for a significant portion of our future revenue, and a significant reduction in CLEAR Plus memberships would reduce our future revenue and harm our anticipated operating results. Given our dependence on CLEAR Plus for a significant portion of our revenues, a decrease in demand for goods or services that produce significant greenhouse gas emissions or are related to carbon-based energy source, such as air travel, could have a material negative impact on our revenues. We have limited experience operating outside the United States and any future international expansion strategy will subject us to additional costs and risks and our plans may not be successful. We have, and in the future we may continue to, expand our presence internationally. For example, in December 2021, we acquired Whyline, Inc., our virtual queuing technology used for Reserve Powered by CLEAR, which is a company that has partnerships across international markets including Argentina, Mexico, Brazil, the United States, Peru, Honduras, and Canada, and which we have expanded further into Europe. Operating outside of the United States requires significant management attention to oversee operations over a broad geographic area with varying cultural norms and customs, in addition to requiring support from our engineering, operations, security, finance, analytics and legal teams. As we continue to expand globally, we may incur significant additional operating expenses and may not be successful in our international expansion for a variety of reasons, including: compliance with privacy and data protection laws, including laws regulating the use and collection of biometric information and health information (see Risks Related to Regulation and Litigation Any actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws relating to privacy and data protection may result in significant liability, negative publicity and erosion of trust, and increased regulation could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and BusinessGovernment Regulation); differing international norms and expectations, including but not limited to those related to the use of personal information; challenges in confirming identities for non-U.S. residents; expanded information security risk with expanded potential threat actors; recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; complying with varying laws and regulatory standards, including with respect to tax and local regulatory restrictions; obtaining any required government approvals, licenses or other authorizations, particularly as may be necessary for the use and collection of personal information; varying levels of Internet and mobile technology adoption and infrastructure; currency exchange restrictions or costs and exchange rate fluctuations; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States; potential oppositions in foreign patent and trademark offices; and limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds as well as foreign currency exchange restrictions. Our limited experience in operating our business internationally increases the risk that any potential future expansion efforts that we may undertake may not be successful. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our operations internationally and are unable to manage these risks effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our metrics and estimates are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in those metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. 24 Table of Contents We regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our metrics used to evaluate our growth, measure our performance and make strategic decisions. These metrics are calculated using internal company data and have not been evaluated by a third party. Our metrics, such as market share, may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology or the assumptions on which we rely. Even if the markets in which we compete meet the size estimates and growth that we expect, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. If investors or analysts do not consider our metrics to be accurate representations of our business, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our metrics, then the trading price of our Class A Common Stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Information Technology and Intellectual Property There may be breaches of our information technology systems that subject us to significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences or materially damage member and partner relationships. Our business requires us to use, store, process and transmit data, including a large amount of sensitive and confidential personal information, including personally identifiable information (PII) of members, employees and partners. This may include, for example: biographic information, such as names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses; biometric information; government-issued identification; health information that members choose to include in their accounts; and payment account information. Although malicious attacks to gain access to personal information or PII affect many companies across various industries, we are at a relatively greater risk of being targeted because of our high profile and the types of personal information we manage. Our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust of our members and our partners and any breaches or alleged breaches of our systems could adversely affect our business, including by impacting the trust that we have gained. See Risks Related to Our Business, Brand and Operations If we are not able to meet evolving stakeholder expectations or to maintain the value and reputation of our brand, our business and financial results may be harmed . We devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, and have been certified by the federal government as operating certain of our information security systems at a FISMA High Rating in accordance with the Federal Information Security Modernization Act and National Institute of Standards and Technology, but these security measures cannot provide, and we cannot guarantee, absolute security. We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. We also use encryption and authentication technologies designed to secure the transmission and storage of data and prevent access to our data or accounts. Increasingly, companies are subject to a wide variety of attacks on their systems on an ongoing basis that are continually evolving. In addition to threats from traditional computer hackers, malicious code (such as malware, viruses, worms, and ransomware), employee theft, error or misuse, password spraying, phishing, social engineering (predominantly spear phishing attacks), credential stuffing, and denial-of-service attacks, we also face an increasing number of threats (including advanced persistent threat intrusions) to our information technology systems from a broad range of actors, including sophisticated organized crime, nation-state and nation-state supported actors, and we cannot assure you that our systems will not be compromised or disrupted by these tactics. Our solutions integrate and rely in part on products, services and technologies developed and supplied by third-party vendors and service providers. Although we make efforts to review our third-party vendors and service providers and the products, services and technologies on which our solutions rely, vulnerabilities in our vendors and service providers products, services and technologies may make our own solutions and information technology systems vulnerable to breach, attack and other risks. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users or partners into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords, or other information or otherwise compromise the security of our or our third-party vendors or service providers internal electronic systems, networks, and/or physical facilities in order to gain access to our data, which could result in significant legal and financial exposure, a loss of confidence in our security, interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, and, ultimately, harm to our future business prospects and revenue. Breaches and attacks on us or our third-party vendors or service providers may cause interruptions to the services we provide, degrade the member experience, cause members or partners to lose confidence and trust in our platform and decrease their use of our platform or stop using our platform entirely, impair our internal systems, or otherwise result in financial harm to us. As we grow within the United States, and expand our international presence, our heightened visibility has increased, and will continue to increase, the risk that we become a target of such attacks. Any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches and unauthorized access to or disclosure of our data or personal information, could result in the loss, modification, disclosure, destruction or other misuse of such data, which could subject us to legal liability, harm our business and reputation and diminish our competitive position, or lead to decreases in the price of our Class A Common Stock. We may incur significant costs in protecting against or remediating such incidents and as cybersecurity incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measure or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Our efforts to protect our confidential and sensitive data and the personal information we receive may also be unsuccessful due to software bugs or other technical malfunctions; employee, contractor, or service provider error or malfeasance, including defects or vulnerabilities in our suppliers or service providers information technology systems or offerings, including products and offerings that we integrate into our products and services; breaches of physical security of our facilities or technical infrastructure; or other threats that may surface or evolve. 25 Table of Contents If we were to experience a breach of our systems and were unable to protect sensitive data, we may not be able to remedy such breach, we may be required by law to notify regulators and individuals whose personal information was used or disclosed without authorization and compensate them for any damages, we may be subject to claims against us, including government enforcement actions or investigations, fines and litigation, and we may have to expend significant capital and other resources to mitigate the impact of such events, including developing and implementing protections to prevent future events of this nature from occurring. Additionally, such a breach could curtail or otherwise adversely impact access to our services, materially damage partner and member relationships, and cause us to lose members or partners. Moreover, if a security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of personal information, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged, use of our platform and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We are also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under our contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, if information is compromised, we could be liable to payment card issuers for associated expenses and penalties. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if no customer information is compromised, we could incur significant fines or remediation costs, experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs or be refused by credit card processors to continue to process payments on our behalf, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we accept payment from our CLEAR Plus members through credit card transactions, certain online payment service providers and mobile payment platforms. The ability to access credit card information on a real-time basis without having to proactively reach out to the members each time we process an auto-renewal payment is critical to our success and a seamless experience for our users. However, if we or a third party experiences a data security breach involving credit card information, affected cardholders will often cancel their credit cards. In the case of a breach experienced by a third party, the more sizable the third partys customer base and the greater the number of credit card accounts impacted, the more likely it is that our users would be impacted by such a breach. To the extent our CLEAR Plus members are ever affected by such a breach experienced by us or a third party, affected members would need to be contacted to obtain new credit card information and process any pending transactions. It is likely that we would not be able to reach all affected members, and even if we could, some members new credit card information may not be obtained and some pending transactions may not be processed, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party technology and information systems to help complete critical business functions. If that technology fails to adequately serve our needs, and we cannot find alternatives, it may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party technology for certain of our critical business functions, including credit card readers, scanners, third-party software, cameras and other technology to complete member enrollments and verifications, network infrastructure for hosting our website and mobile application, software libraries, development environments and tools, services to allow members to populate their accounts with personal information, and cloud storage platforms. Our business is dependent on the integrity, security and efficient operation of these systems and technologies, and we do not necessarily control the operation or data security of the third-party providers we utilize. Our efforts to use commercially reasonable diligence in the selection and retention of such third-party providers may be insufficient or inadequate to prevent or remediate such risks. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party providers and partners could be exposed to damage, interruption, security breach and other risks from, among other things, computer viruses and other malicious software, denial-of-service attacks and other cyberattacks, acts of terrorism, human error, sabotage, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, financial insolvency, bankruptcy and similar events, and may be subject to financial, legal or regulatory issues, each of which may impose additional costs or requirements on us, expose us to potential liability or require us to expend significant resources on data security and in responding to any such actual or perceived breach, or prevent these third parties from providing services to us or our members on our behalf. The failure of these systems to perform as designed, the vulnerability of these systems to security breaches or the inability to enhance our information technology capabilities, and our inability to find suitable alternatives in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all, could disrupt our operations and subject us to losses or costs to remediate any of these deficiencies. In addition, we cannot be assured that third parties will comply with their agreements with us and applicable laws and regulations or that third parties will not increase their prices or give preferential treatment to our competitors. Any contractual protections we may have from our third-party service providers, contractors or consultants may not be sufficient to adequately protect us from any such liabilities and losses, and we may be unable to enforce any such contractual protections. Additionally, the occurrence or perception of any of the above events could result in members ceasing to use our platform, reputational damage, legal or regulatory proceedings or other adverse consequences, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property, technology and confidential information could harm our business, competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. The protection of intellectual property, technology and confidential information is crucial to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws, know-how, 26 Table of Contents confidentiality provisions, non-disclosure agreements, assignment agreements, and other legal and contractual rights and restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. It may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and technology and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. The laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries may be inadequate. As we expand internationally, our exposure to unauthorized use of our products, technology and proprietary information may increase. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our technology and intellectual property. We rely in part on patent protection to maintain our competitive position. Although our patents and patent applications are intended to protect our proprietary inventions relevant to our business, we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Further, even our issued patents may be contested, circumvented or found invalid or unenforceable, and we may not be able to prevent infringement of our patents by third parties. We also rely in part on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and other confidential information to maintain our competitive position. Although we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with our partners and certain third parties, no assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products, technology and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products and services. We rely in part on trademark protection to protect our brand. Our registered and unregistered trademarks and trade names may be challenged, infringed, circumvented or declared generic or determined to be infringing on other marks. We may not be able to protect our rights to these trademarks and trade names, which we need to build name recognition in the market. Competitors may adopt trade names or trademarks similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity. Third parties with similar trade names and trademarks may bring trademark infringement claims against us. To protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. Litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation or proceedings could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could delay further expansion of our platform, impair the functionality of our platform, delay introductions of new platform functionality, or injure our reputation. In addition, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop and market new functionality, and we cannot assure you that we could license that technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and our inability to license this technology could harm our ability to compete. We have granted lenders security interests in certain of our intellectual property rights which could subject such rights to sale or other actions in the event of a default. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis, we may not be successful in the international expansion of our business that we may pursue. Access to worldwide markets depends in part on the strength of our intellectual property portfolio. There can be no assurance that, as our business expands into new areas, we will be able to independently develop the technology, software or know-how necessary to conduct our business or that we can do so without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We have to rely on licensed technology from others, and accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms we consider reasonable. The lack of a necessary license could expose us to claims for damages and/or injunction from third parties, as well as claims for indemnification by our customers in instances where we have a contractual or other legal obligation to indemnify them against damages resulting from infringement claims. With regard to our own intellectual property, there can be no assurance that our efforts to enforce and protect our rights will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation or improper use of our protected technology particularly in international markets. If our future products incorporate technologies that infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, and we do not secure licenses from them, we could be liable for substantial damages. We continue to allocate significant resources to developing new and innovative technologies that are utilized in our products and systems. Because our continued success depends on, to a significant degree, our ability to offer products providing superior functionality and performance over those offered by our competitors, we consider the protection of our technology from unauthorized use to be fundamental to our success. We do this by incorporating processes aimed at 27 Table of Contents identifying and seeking appropriate protection for newly-developed intellectual property, including patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as policies aimed at identifying unauthorized use of such property. We are not aware that our current products infringe the intellectual property rights of any third parties. We also are not aware of any third party intellectual property rights that may hamper our ability to provide future products and services. However, we recognize that the development of our services or products may require that we acquire intellectual property licenses from third parties so as to avoid infringement of those parties intellectual property rights. These licenses may not be available at all or may only be available on terms that are not commercially reasonable. If third parties make infringement claims against us whether or not they are upheld, such claims could consume substantial time and financial resources, divert the attention of management from growing our business and managing operations and disrupt product sales and shipments. If any third party prevails in an action against us for infringement of its proprietary rights, we could be required to pay damages and either enter into costly licensing arrangements or redesign our products so as to exclude any infringing use. As a result, we would incur substantial costs, experience delays in product development, sales and shipments, and our revenues may decline substantially. Additionally, we may not be able to achieve the minimum necessary growth for our continued success. See Risks Related to Regulation and Litigation We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of intellectual property and other proprietary rights . Risks Related to Regulation and Litigation We must continue to meet the standards set for our airport operations by governmental stakeholders. We relaunched in 2010 at two U.S. airports as the only private company authorized by the DHS to automate the process for confirming traveler identity and validating travel documents for enrolled CLEAR members, and we continue to provide airport services to our members through the Registered Traveler Program. As we have grown, our interactions with the federal government have expanded as well. For example, in January 2020, we were selected by the TSA as an awardee in the TSA Biometric PreCheck Expansion Services and Vetting Program to handle subscription renewal processing and new enrollments for the TSA PreCheck program and have entered into an up to 10-year agreement to provide such services to the traveling public. On December 21, 2022, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) issued an authority to operate (ATO) to CLEAR for the TSA PreCheck Enrollment Provided by CLEAR enrollment system, and we expect to begin enrolling travelers in TSA PreCheck in early 2023. Additionally, we have entered into numerous Cooperative Research and Development Agreements with the DHS, and the DHS has certified the biometric enrollment and verification system we use in certain locations as Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology under the SAFETY Act. We operate through the Registered Traveler Program according to guidelines set forth by the federal government, which have historically been implemented through our airport and/or airline partners. As we have grown, our regulatory frameworks have evolved as well. For example, as a result of our accelerated addition of new airport locations and offering of new functionality at airports (such as our biometric boarding pass service), we are subject to various audits, reviews and evaluations overseen by TSA, a sub-agency of the DHS, which includes the following: annual operational audits at each airport where we operate our Registered Traveler Program requiring us to demonstrate compliance with airport checkpoint security protocols; audits of certain of our information systems against a stringent FISMA High Rating designation for information security and an additional Registered Traveler Security Overlay framework; ongoing periodic reviews of our operational procedures and technology, such as the biometric matching technology and credential authentication systems that help power our system; ongoing special emphasis inspections of our compliance with operational and procedural obligations for Registered Traveler Program providers; and an evaluation by the Science and Technology Directorate of the DHS of our biometric enrollment and verification system for renewal of our SAFETY Act certification as a Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology. The future success of programs we operate with support or authorization from governmental stakeholders depends on our continued ability to satisfy the regulatory standards they promulgate such as those set forth above and maintain their support generally, including continuing to adhere to airport security protocols and maintaining an appropriate data security platform. Failure to meet the standards set forth by governmental stakeholders, changes in the rules, requirements or operational procedures applicable to our business or the Registered Traveler Program generally , and evolving frameworks such as increased use of the federal governments own credential authentication technology could negatively impact the level of service experienced by our customers and our ability to continue adding new services in regulated locations, add new locations for our existing services, or even continue to operate the same services we operate now. Further, should regulatory frameworks evolve, they may increase our operating expenses, make compliance more difficult or impact our operating protocols, require us to add new staffing, and divert managements attention from other growth initiatives. Failure to meet any such new standards in the future may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property and other proprietary rights. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in the biometrics, identity and technology industries generally, and litigation, based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property, is frequent. Furthermore, it is common for individuals and groups to purchase patents and other intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement to extract settlements from companies like ours. We cannot guarantee that our internally developed or acquired technologies or third party tools that we use do not or will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties, including non-practicing entities, may claim that we are infringing upon or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. In addition, in the event that we recruit employees from other technology companies, including certain potential competitors, and these employees are used in the development of portions of products which are similar to the development in which they were involved at their former employers, we may become subject to claims that such employees have improperly used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information. Any claim, litigation or allegation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages, ongoing royalty payments or licensing fees, prevent us from offering our platform or services or using certain technologies, require us to develop alternative technology or obtain additional licenses, force us to implement expensive workarounds, or be subject to other unfavorable terms. We expect that the occurrence of infringement claims and allegations is likely to grow as the market for biometric solutions and identity products and services grows. Accordingly, our exposure to damages resulting from infringement claims could increase and this could further exhaust our financial and management resources. Even alleged infringement claims that lack merit may be distracting and expensive to defend and could contribute to reduced public confidence in our platform, and even if meritorious but ultimately unsuccessful, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and require use to incur significant expenditures. Further, during the course of any litigation, we may make announcements regarding the results of hearings and motions, and other interim developments. If securities analysts and investors regard these announcements as negative, the market price of our Class A Common Stock may decline. Any of the foregoing could prevent us from competing effectively and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws relating to privacy and data protection may result in significant liability, negative publicity and erosion of trust, and increased regulation could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain personal information about individuals. We are subject to various federal and state laws and rules regarding the collection, use, disclosure, storage, transmission, and destruction of this personal information. We collect and use personal information when our members enroll in our platform and use our platform after they have completed their enrollment. The laws of many states and countries require businesses that maintain such personal data to implement measures to keep such information secure and otherwise restrict the ways in which such information can be collected and used. Numerous states and municipalities have enacted or are in the process of enacting state level data privacy laws and regulations governing the collection, use and processing of state residents personal data. For example, CCPA took effect on January 1, 2020. CCPA provides enhanced data privacy rights to California consumers, including the right to access and delete their information and to opt out of certain sharing and sales of personal information. The law also prohibits covered businesses from discriminating against consumers (for example, charging more for services) for exercising any of their CCPA rights. CCPA imposes severe statutory damages as well as a private right of action for certain data breaches that result in the loss of personal information. This private right of action is expected to increase the likelihood of, and risks associated with, data breach litigation. It remains unclear how various provisions of CCPA will be interpreted and enforced. Additionally, both CPRA and the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act (VCDPA) took effect on January 1, 2023. CPRA further expands CCPA with additional data privacy compliance requirements that may impact our business, and establishes a regulatory agency dedicated to enforcing those requirements. The VCDPA similarly provides Virginia consumers with certain rights regarding personal information, and imposes obligations on business that process personal information to comply with those rights and creates penalties for businesses that fail to comply with those obligations. In addition, in July 2021, Colorado passed the Colorado Privacy Act, which provides similar privacy rights for Colorado consumer consumers. CPRA, CCPA, VCDPA and other similar state laws may encourage other states and the federal government to pass comparable legislation, introducing the possibility of greater penalties and more rigorous compliance requirements relevant to our business. States such as Illinois, Texas and Washington, have laws that specifically regulate the collection and use of biometric information, and numerous states and municipalities are considering similar legislation. Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act (BIPA) includes both a private right of action and liquidated damages for companies that violate its provisions and many states are modeling new biometric privacy laws after Illinois BIPA. Regardless of any companys efforts to comply with the requirements of BIPA, this private right of action increases the general likelihood of, and costs and risks associated with, biometrics litigation. Recent BIPA caselaw has increased liability exposure and the scope of 29 Table of Contents damages that may be collected for alleged violations. Other states, such as New York, are considering comparable laws covering biometric information. The effects of BIPA, CPRA, CCPA, VCDPA and other similar state or federal laws, are significant and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and potential liability in an effort to comply with such legislation. Furthermore, municipalities have started regulating biometrics at a more local level, such as the New York City Biometric Identifier Information Law and the City of Portlands restriction on certain uses of facial recognition technology. These restrictions may reduce the capabilities of companies that utilize biometrics to expand their platforms in these locations. See BusinessGovernment Regulation. Various other governments and consumer agencies around the world have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices and many have enacted and may in the future enact different and potentially contradictory requirements for protecting personal information collected and maintained electronically. These regulations have become particularly relevant to us as we expand our operations beyond the United States. For example, GDPR, which became effective on May 25, 2018, includes operational requirements for companies that are established in the EEA or process personal data of individuals located in the EEA. These requirements govern the processing of personal data and include significant penalties for non-compliance. Failure to comply with GDPR may result in fines of up to 20 million euro or up to 4% of the annual global revenue of the infringer, whichever is greater. It may also lead to civil litigation, with the risks of damages or injunctive relief, or regulatory orders adversely impacting on the ways in which our business can use personal data. Additionally, the United Kingdom has transposed GDPR into domestic law with a United Kingdom version of GDPR (combining GDPR and the Data Protection Act of 2018) that took effect in January 2021, which exposes us to two parallel regimes, each of which authorizes similar fines and other potentially divergent enforcement actions for certain violations. Compliance with numerous and contradictory requirements of different jurisdictions is particularly difficult and costly for a business such as ours that collects personal information from members. If any jurisdiction in which we currently, or in the future may, operate adopts new laws or changes its interpretation of its laws, rules or regulations relating to data use and processing such that we are unable to comply in a timely manner or at all, we could risk losing our rights to operate in such jurisdictions. In addition to government regulation, self-regulatory standards and other industry standards may legally or contractually apply to us, be argued to apply to us, or we may elect to comply with such standards or to facilitate our customers compliance with such standards. We may make statements on our website, in marketing materials, or in other settings about our data security measures and our compliance with, or our ability to facilitate our customers compliance with, these standards. Furthermore, because the interpretation and application of laws, standards, contractual obligations and other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security are uncertain, these laws, standards, and contractual and other obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is, or is alleged to be, inconsistent with our data management practices, our policies or procedures, or the features of our platforms. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits, and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our platforms, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to make such changes and modifications in a commercially reasonable manner or at all, and our ability to fulfill existing obligations, make enhancements, or develop new platforms and features could be limited. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our platforms. While we make significant efforts to comply with all laws, regulations, standards and obligations applicable to us, we cannot guarantee that we have always been or will always be successful. Privacy and data protection laws, rules and regulations are complex, and their interpretation is rapidly evolving, making implementation and enforcement, and thus compliance requirements, ambiguous, uncertain and potentially inconsistent. Compliance with such laws may require changes to our operations and business practices and may thereby increase compliance costs or have other material adverse effects on our business. In addition, even alleged violations of such laws could be costly to defend and divert managements attention. Failure or perceived failure to comply with laws regarding the collection and use of biometric information like BIPA could have an adverse impact on our business and results. While we have invested and continue to invest significant resources to comply with privacy regulations, many of these regulations expose us to the possibility of material penalties, significant legal liability, changes in how we operate or offer our products, and interruptions or cessation of our ability to operate in key geographies, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with privacy and data protection policies, notices, laws (such as BIPA), rules and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by individuals, consumer rights groups, government agencies or others. We could incur significant costs in investigating and defending such claims and, if found liable, pay significant damages or fines or be required to make changes to our business. Further, these proceedings and any subsequent adverse outcomes may subject us to significant negative publicity, and an erosion of trust. If any of these events were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We function as a HIPAA business associate for certain of our health care partners and, as such, are subject to strict privacy and data security requirements. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, we could be subject to 30 Table of Contents significant liability, which can adversely affect our business as well as our ability to attract and retain new members and their utilization of our platform. HIPAA imposes specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of sensitive patient health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAAs security standards directly applicable to business associates. As our business evolves, we expect to increasingly enter into agreements in which we are a business associate for partners in the healthcare industry that are HIPAA covered entities and service providers, and therefore we are and will increasingly be regulated under these agreements as a business associate for the purposes of HIPAA. If we are unable to comply with our obligations as a HIPAA business associate, we could face substantial civil and even criminal liability. HITECH imposes four tiers of civil monetary penalties and gives state attorneys general authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, many state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from HIPAA and each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect. When we process PHI on behalf of a covered entity, we are required by HIPAA to maintain HIPAA-compliant business associate agreements with our partners that are HIPAA covered entities and service providers, as well as certain of our subcontractors that access, maintain, create or transmit sensitive patient health information on our behalf for the rendering of services to our HIPAA covered entity and service provider members. These agreements impose stringent data security and other obligations on us. If we or our subcontractors are unable to meet the requirements of any of these business associate agreements, we could face contractual liability under the applicable business associate agreement as well as possible civil and criminal liability under HIPAA, all of which can have an adverse impact on our business and generate negative publicity, which, in turn, can have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain members. We also collect and use health information from individuals in relationships in which we are not a HIPAA business associate, but for which we strive to implement information security standards similar to the standards that would be applicable under HIPAA. Any failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our business and generate negative publicity, which, in turn, could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain members. See BusinessGovernment Regulation. The laws and regulations that we are subject to or may become subject to are constantly evolving. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as regulations promulgated by government agencies. These laws and regulations pertain to matters, including but not limited to, the collection and use of biometric or health information, data privacy and information protection, labor and employment, intellectual property, consumer contracting and others, and are often complex and subject to varying interpretations. As a result, their application in practice may change or develop over time through judicial decisions or as new guidance or interpretations are provided by regulatory and governing bodies, such as federal, state and local administrative agencies. New offerings may also subject us to laws and regulations that we have not historically been subject to. In addition, our business operations at airports involve coordination with the DHS, and we are subject to audits and reviews by the DHS and TSA. Governmental stakeholders may promulgate additional regulatory frameworks for us or increase the difficulty in maintaining our existing certifications, which may present additional challenges for our operations, increase our expenses, reduce our opportunities and divert managements attention. Failure to comply with these standards set for our operations by governmental stakeholders may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See We must continue to meet the standards set for our airport operations by governmental stakeholders . As our industry evolves and we continue to expand our platform offerings and member base, we may become subject to additional laws and regulations, which may differ or conflict from one jurisdiction to another. Additionally, the passage or adoption of any legislation or regulation affecting the ability of service providers to periodically charge consumers for, among other things, recurring subscription payments may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. This could materially adversely affect our payment authorization rate. Legislation or regulation regarding the foregoing, or changes to existing legislation or regulation governing subscription payments, are being considered in many U.S. states. While we monitor and attempt to comply with these legal developments, we may be subject to claims under such legislation or regulation. Additionally, actual or perceived ESG matters and our response to these matters could harm our reputation and business results. Increasing governmental and societal attention to ESG matters, including expanding mandatory and voluntary reporting, diligence, and disclosure on topics such as climate change, human capital, labor and risk oversight, could expand the nature, scope, and complexity of matters that we are required to control, assess and report. These factors may alter the environment in which we do business and may increase the ongoing costs of compliance and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to adequately address such ESG matters or fail to comply 31 Table of Contents with all laws, regulations, policies and related interpretations, it could negatively impact our reputation and our business results. Our practices, offerings or platform could be inconsistent with, or fail or be alleged to fail to meet all requirements of, such laws, regulations or obligations. Our failure, or the failure by our partners, to comply with applicable laws or regulations or any other obligations relating to our platform offerings, could harm our reputation and brand, discourage new and existing members from using our platform, lead to refunds of membership fees or result in fines or proceedings by governmental agencies or private claims and litigation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to legal proceedings, regulatory disputes and governmental inquiries that could cause us to incur significant expenses, divert our managements attention and materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In the ordinary course of business, from time to time, we have been involved in legal proceedings and in the future may be subject to claims, lawsuits, government investigations and other proceedings involving intellectual property, privacy, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes and other matters that could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. Litigation and regulatory proceedings may be protracted and expensive, and the results are difficult to predict. Certain of these matters may include speculative claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts of damages and include claims for injunctive relief. Additionally, our litigation costs could be significant. Adverse outcomes with respect to litigation or any of these legal proceedings may result in significant settlement costs or judgments, penalties and fines, or require us to modify our products or services, harm our reputation or require us to stop offering certain features, all of which could negatively affect our membership and revenue growth. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See BusinessLegal Proceedings. The results of litigation, investigations, claims and regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, and determining reserves for pending litigation and other legal and regulatory matters requires significant judgment. There can be no assurance that our expectations will prove correct, and even if these matters are resolved in our favor or without significant cash settlements, these matters, and the time and resources necessary to litigate or resolve them, could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The coverage afforded under our insurance policies may be inadequate for the needs of our business or our third-party insurers may be unable or unwilling to meet our coverage requirements, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous obligations in our contracts with our partners and government agencies. Despite the measures we have implemented to comply with our contracts, we may fail to meet these commitments, whether through a weakness in these procedures, systems and internal controls, negligence or the willful act of an employee. Our insurance policies may be inadequate to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from failure to meet our contractual obligations, disruptions in our services, including those caused by cybersecurity incidents, failures or disruptions to our infrastructure, catastrophic events and disasters or otherwise. In addition, such insurance may not be available to us in the future on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Further, our insurance may not cover all claims made against us and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert managements attention. Additionally, we procure insurance policies to cover various operations-related risks, including general business liability, workers compensation, employment practices liability, cyber liability and data breaches, and directors and officers liability insurance. Our costs for obtaining insurance policies will increase as our business grows and continues to evolve. Furthermore, as our business continues to develop and expand, we may experience difficulty in obtaining insurance coverage for new and evolving offerings, which could require us to incur greater costs and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the cyber insurance market continues to evolve and may be less available than in the past. Accordingly, appropriate insurance coverage may not be available to us in the future on economically reasonable terms or at all to cover all of our business exposure. If we fail to comply with insurance regulatory requirements in the regions where we operate, or other regulations governing insurance coverage, our brand, reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. For example, if the DHS were to increase the insurance coverage requirements for us related to our certification as a Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology under the SAFETY Act, such insurance coverage may significantly increase our costs or may not be available to us. 32 Table of Contents Our use of open source software could adversely affect our ability to offer our services and subject us to possible litigation, and may increase our vulnerability to unauthorized access and cyberattacks. We use open source software in connection with certain of our products and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the use of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or claiming noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute software containing open source software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code, which could include valuable proprietary code of the user, on unfavorable terms or at no cost. While we monitor the use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose our proprietary source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur, in part because open source license terms are often ambiguous. Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could help our competitors develop products and services that are similar to or better than ours. In addition to risks related to license requirements, the use of open source software may increase our vulnerability to unauthorized access to our systems and other risks relating to cybersecurity. Open source software licensors generally do not provide updates, warranties, support, indemnities, assurances of title, or controls on origin of the software. Likewise, some open source projects have known security and other vulnerabilities and architectural instabilities, or are otherwise subject to cyberattacks due to their wide availability, and are provided on an as-is basis. Liability protections provided by the SAFETY Act may be limited. Certain of our technologies and solutions are certified or designated by the DHS as Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technologies under the SAFETY Act. The SAFETY Act provides important legal liability protections for providers of qualified anti-terrorism products and services. Under the SAFETY Act, technology providers may apply to the DHS for coverage of the products and services. If granted coverage, such providers receive certain legal protections against product liability, professional liability and certain other claims that could arise following an act of terrorism. While we believe our applicable technologies and solutions will continue to meet with the approval of the DHSs SAFETY Act office, we cannot be sure that the SAFETY Act certification and designation will be renewed in the future. Additionally, we do not enjoy coverage for every service we provide. In addition, the terms of the SAFETY Act coverage decisions awarded to us by the DHS contain conditions and requirements that we may not be able to continue to satisfy in the future. In the future, if the DHS limits availability of SAFETY Act coverage or the scope of any coverage previously awarded to us, denies us coverage or suspends or terminates our coverage for a particular service, or delays in making decisions about whether to grant us coverage, we may become exposed to legal claims that the SAFETY Act was otherwise designed to prevent. Risks Related to Our Financial Results We may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future and have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, increased expenses as we continue to invest in growth. We have not been profitable since our relaunch in 2010, and we recorded a net loss of approximately $115.4 million, $115.1 million and $9.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our expenses have increased, and we expect them to continue to increase, in some cases significantly in comparison to the 2020 fiscal year, when we had lower staffing needs and proactively reduced our operating expenses as we attempted to manage the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our financial results. We have also incurred increased expenses in response to increased travel volumes as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the travel industry subsides or otherwise to support our growth efforts. Following our IPO, we have also incurred, and expect to continue to incur, increased amounts of compensation expense, including related to equity awards granted under the 2021 Omnibus Incentive Plan to both existing employees and newly-hired employees, and grants in connection with new hires could be significant. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsImpact of the COVID-19 Pandemic. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. If we generate losses in the future, if our net losses increase or if we are cash flow negative, the market price of our common stock may decline. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include, or could in the future include, those related to revenue recognition, capitalized internal-use software costs, income taxes, other non-income taxes, business combinations, valuation of goodwill, purchased intangible assets and share-based compensation. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. Our focus on delivering a safe, reliable, predictable and frictionless member experience may not maximize short-term financial results, which may yield results that conflict with the markets expectations and could result in our stock price being negatively affected. We are focused on continually enhancing our members experience on, and utilization of, our platform. We seek to achieve this objective by expanding our platform into our members lives by entering into new verticals and airports, which may not necessarily maximize short-term financial results. We frequently make business decisions that may adversely impact our short-term financial results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve our members experience, which we believe will improve our financial results over the long term. These decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of our stockholders and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our membership growth and the utilization of our platform, as well as our business, financial condition, and operating results, could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure We are a holding company and our principal asset is our equity interests in Alclear, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Alclear to pay dividends, if any, and taxes, make payments under any Tax Receivable Agreement and cover other expenses, including our corporate and other overhead expenses. We are a holding company and our principal asset is our ownership of Alclear Units. We have no independent means of generating revenue, and our ability to pay dividends, taxes and operating expenses is dependent upon the financial results and cash flows of Alclear and its subsidiaries and distributions we receive from Alclear. As the sole managing member of Alclear, we intend to cause, and will rely on, Alclear to make distributions to us, the Founder Post-IPO Members and the other CLEAR Post-IPO Members, in amounts sufficient to cover dividends, if any, all applicable taxes payable by us, any payments we are obligated to make under the tax receivable agreement entered into between the Company and the CLEAR Post-IPO Members on June 29, 2021 in connection with the reorganization transactions (the Tax Receivable Agreement) and other costs or expenses. However, there can be no assurance that Alclear will generate sufficient cash flow to distribute funds to us or that applicable state law and contractual restrictions, including negative covenants in our debt instruments, will permit such distributions. In addition, when Alclear makes certain distributions to the Company, the other members of Alclear may also be entitled to receive distributions pro rata based on their economic interests in Alclear. To the extent that we need funds or intend to pay dividends and such distributions to us by Alclear are restricted or not possible, under applicable law or regulation, as a result of covenants in our debt agreements or otherwise, we may not be able to pay dividends or obtain such funds on terms acceptable to us or at all and as a result could suffer a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Under Alclears Operating Agreement, we expect Alclear from time to time to make pro rata distributions in cash to its unitholders, including us, the Founder Post-IPO Members and the other CLEAR Post-IPO Members, in amounts sufficient to cover taxes on our allocable share of the taxable income of Alclear and payments we are obligated to make under the Tax Receivable Agreement. As a result of (i) potential differences in the amount of net taxable income allocable to us and to Alclears other unitholders, (ii) the lower tax rate applicable to corporations than individuals and (iii) the favorable tax benefits that we anticipate from (a) the Companys allocable share of existing tax basis acquired in its IPO, (b) increases in the Companys allocable share of existing tax basis and adjustments to the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Alclear as a result of exchanges by the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) of Alclear Units (along with the corresponding shares of our Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as applicable) for shares of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, as applicable, and purchases of Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as the case may be, from CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) and (c) certain other tax benefits we anticipate receiving under the Tax Receivable Agreement, these cash distributions have been, and we expect that they will continue to be, in amounts that exceed our tax liabilities. Our Board will determine the appropriate uses for any excess cash so accumulated, which may include, among other uses, the payment of obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement and the payment of other expenses. We have no obligation to distribute such cash (or other available cash) to our stockholders. No adjustments to the present exchange ratio of one-to-one for Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Common Stock is made as a result of any cash distribution by us or any retention of cash by us. To the extent we do not distribute such excess cash as dividends on our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock or otherwise take ameliorative actions 34 Table of Contents between Alclear Units and shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock and instead, for example, hold such cash balances, or lend them to Alclear, this may result in shares of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock increasing in value relative to the value of Alclear Units. The holders of Alclear Units may benefit from any value attributable to such cash balances if they acquire shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock in exchange for their Alclear Units, notwithstanding that such holders may previously have participated as holders of Alclear Units in distributions that resulted in such excess cash balances. We paid a special cash dividend in the fourth quarter of our 2022 fiscal year, and may or may not in the future pay cash dividends to our stockholders, but our ability to do so may be limited by our holding company structure, contractual restrictions and other factors. We declared a special cash dividend in the fourth quarter of 2022 to holders of our Class A and Class B Common Stock and may in the future pay cash dividends to our stockholders. However, we are a holding company, with our principal asset being our controlling equity interest in Alclear, and we have no independent means of generating revenue. Accordingly, as the managing member of Alclear, we intend to cause, and will rely on, Alclear to make distributions to its members, including Clear Secure, Inc., to fund our dividends. When Alclear makes such distributions, the other members of Alclear will also be entitled to receive distributions pro rata based on their economic interests in Alclear. Our Board will periodically review the cash generated from our business and the capital expenditures required to finance our growth plans and determine whether to declare dividends to our stockholders. Our Board will take into account general economic and business conditions, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, including restrictions contained in our Credit Agreement, business prospects and other factors that our Board considers relevant. There can be no assurance as to the declaration of future dividends or the amount of any such dividends. In addition, our Credit Agreement limits the amount of distributions our subsidiaries, including Alclear, can make to us and the purposes for which distributions could be made. Accordingly, we may not be able to pay dividends even if our Board would otherwise deem it appropriate. See Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our organizational structure, including the Tax Receivable Agreement, confers certain benefits upon the CLEAR Post-IPO Members that will not benefit holders of our Class A Common Stock to the same extent that it will benefit the CLEAR Post-IPO Members. Our organizational structure, including the Tax Receivable Agreement, confers certain benefits upon the CLEAR Post-IPO Members that do not benefit the holders of our Class A Common Stock to the same extent that it benefits the CLEAR Post-IPO Members. In connection with the IPO, we entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement with the CLEAR Post-IPO Members that provides for the payment by us to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize (computed using simplifying assumptions to address the impact of state and local taxes) as a result of (i) any increase in tax basis in Alclears assets resulting from (a) exchanges by the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) of Alclear Units (along with the corresponding shares of our Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as applicable) for shares of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, as applicable, and purchases of Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as the case may be, from CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) or (b) payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, and (ii) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed arising as a result of payments made under the Tax Receivable Agreement. Although the Company retains 15% of the amount of such tax benefits, this and other aspects of our organizational structure may adversely impact the trading market for the Class A Common Stock. We are controlled by the Founder Post-IPO Members, whose interests in our business may be different than yours. As of December 31, 2022, the Founder Post-IPO Members collectively control approximately 80.9% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock as a result of its ownership of our Class B Common Stock and our Class D Common Stock, each share of which is entitled to 20 votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. The Founder Post-IPO Members have the ability to control our Company, including the ability to control any action requiring the general approval of our stockholders, including the election of our Board, the adoption of amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws and the approval of any merger or sale of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership and voting power may also delay, defer or even prevent an acquisition by a third party or other change of control of our Company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of the Founder Post-IPO Members, even if such events are in the best interests of minority stockholders. This concentration of voting power with the Founder Post-IPO Members may have a negative impact on the price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, because shares of our Class B Common Stock and Class D Common Stock each have 20 votes per share on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, the Founder Post-IPO Members are able to control our Company until such time that the Founder Post-IPO Members no longer collectively beneficially own a majority of the voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock. Further, even when the Founder Post-IPO Members cease to collectively own shares of our Common Stock representing a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, 35 Table of Contents for so long as the Founder Post-IPO Members continue to collectively own a significant percentage of our stock, they will still be able to significantly influence the composition of our Board and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval through their voting power. The Founder Post-IPO Members interests may not be fully aligned with yours. Because each Founder Post-IPO Member holds part of its economic interest in our business through Alclear, rather than through the public company, they may have conflicting interests with holders of shares of our Class A Common Stock. For example, the Founder Post-IPO Members may have a different tax position from us, which could influence its decisions regarding whether and when we should dispose of assets or incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the Tax Receivable Agreement that we entered into in connection with our IPO, and whether and when we should undergo certain changes of control within the meaning of the Tax Receivable Agreement or terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. We will be required to pay the CLEAR Post-IPO Members for certain tax benefits we may claim, and the amounts we may pay could be significant. Future exchanges by the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) of Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as the case may be, for shares of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, respectively, and purchases of Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as the case may be, from CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) are expected to produce favorable tax attributes. These tax attributes would not be available to us in the absence of those transactions. Both the existing and anticipated tax basis adjustments are expected to reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. The Tax Receivable Agreement provides for the payment by us to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize (computed using simplifying assumptions to address the impact of state and local taxes) as a result of (i) any increase in tax basis in Alclears assets resulting from (a) exchanges by the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) of Alclear Units (along with the corresponding shares of our Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as applicable) for shares of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, as applicable, and purchases of Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as the case may be, from CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) or (b) payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, and (ii) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed arising as a result of payments made under the Tax Receivable Agreement. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges by or purchases from the CLEAR Post-IPO Members, the price of our Class A Common Stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable and the portion of our payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement constituting imputed interest. Payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are based on the tax reporting positions that we determine, and the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS), or another tax authority may challenge all or part of the tax basis increases or other tax benefits we claim, as well as other related tax positions we take, and a court could sustain such challenge. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge the tax basis increases or other benefits arising under the Tax Receivable Agreement, if the outcome of any such challenge would reasonably be expected to materially affect a recipients payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, then we will not be permitted to settle such challenge without the consent (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of the CLEAR Post-IPO Members. The interests of the CLEAR Post-IPO Members in any such challenge may differ from or conflict with our interests and your interests, and the CLEAR Post-IPO Members may exercise their consent rights relating to any such challenge in a manner adverse to our interests and your interests. We will not be reimbursed for any cash payments previously made to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) under the Tax Receivable Agreement in the event that any tax benefits initially claimed by us and for which payment has been made to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) are subsequently challenged by a taxing authority and are ultimately disallowed. Instead, any excess cash payments made by us to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) will be netted against any future cash payments that we might otherwise be required to make to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) under the terms of the Tax Receivable Agreement. However, we might not determine that we have effectively made an excess cash payment to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or its transferee or assignee) for a number of years following the initial time of such payment and, if any of our tax reporting positions are challenged by a taxing authority, we will not be permitted to reduce any future cash payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement until any such challenge is finally settled or determined. Moreover, the excess cash payments we previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement could be greater than the amount of future cash payments against which we would otherwise be permitted to net such excess. As a result, payments could be made under the Tax Receivable Agreement significantly in excess of any tax savings that we 36 Table of Contents realize in respect of the tax attributes with respect to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) that are the subject of the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, the Tax Receivable Agreement provides that in the case of a change in control of the Company or a material breach of our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement, we are required to make a payment to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members in an amount equal to the present value of future payments (calculated using a discount rate equal to the lesser of 6.5% or London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) (or, in the absence of LIBOR, its successor rate) plus 100 basis points, which may differ from our, or a potential acquirers, then-current cost of capital) under the Tax Receivable Agreement, which payment would be based on certain assumptions, including those relating to our future taxable income. In these situations, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our, or a potential acquirers, liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring, modifying or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. These provisions of the Tax Receivable Agreement may result in situations where the CLEAR Post-IPO Members have interests that differ from or are in addition to those of our other stockholders. In addition, we could be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement that are substantial and in excess of our, or a potential acquirers, actual cash savings in income tax. Decisions we make in the course of running our business, such as with respect to mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes in control, may influence the timing and amount of payments made under the Tax Receivable Agreement. For example, the earlier disposition of assets following an exchange or purchase of Alclear Units may accelerate payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement and increase the present value of such payments, and the disposition of assets before an exchange or purchase of Alclear Units may increase the tax liability of CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) without giving rise to any rights to receive payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. Such effects may result in differences or conflicts of interest between the interests of CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) and the interests of other stockholders. Finally, because we are a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us. Our debt agreements could restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which could affect our ability to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid, which could negatively impact our results of operations and could also affect our liquidity in periods in which such payments are made. Our Credit Agreement contains restrictions that limit our flexibility. The covenants in our Credit Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2020 (as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2021, and as may be further amended from time to time, the Credit Agreement), by and among Alclear, the other loan parties thereto, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., may negatively impact our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a specified net leverage ratio, which may require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Our Credit Agreement also restricts our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt and guarantee indebtedness; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, our capital stock, or make other restricted payments; prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt; make loans or certain investments; sell certain assets; create liens on certain assets; consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; and enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends. We could incur substantial indebtedness in the future, and the agreements governing any such indebtedness may provide further restrictions on our business. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. These restrictive covenants may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. The failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of a substantial amount of our indebtedness. In the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to refinance our indebtedness or to make any accelerated payments. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, we would not be able to guarantee that the new financing would be on commercially reasonable terms. If we default on our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operation could suffer a material adverse effect. The timing and amount of any repurchases under our stock repurchase program are subject to a number of uncertainties. On May 13, 2022, our Board authorized a stock repurchase program, whereby we may purchase up to $100million of the Company's Class A Common Stock on a discretionary basis from time to time through open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions, or other means, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will be determined by management depending on a variety of factors, including stock price, trading volume, market conditions, and other general business considerations. The repurchase program has no expiration 37 Table of Contents date and may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time, and we have no obligation to repurchase any amount of our Class A Common Stock under the repurchase program. The Inflation Reduction Act, enacted on August 16, 2022, imposes a 1% excise tax on net repurchases of shares by U.S. corporations whose stock is traded on an established securities market. The excise tax will be imposed on repurchases that occur after December 31, 2022. The imposition of the excise tax on repurchases of our shares will increase the cost to us of making repurchases and may cause us to reduce the number of shares repurchased pursuant to the repurchase program. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of distributions on our Class A Common Stock to a stockholder will depend upon our tax attributes and the stockholders tax basis in our stock, which are not necessarily predictable and can change over time. Distributions of cash or other property on our Class A Common Stock, if any, will constitute dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent paid from our current or accumulated earnings and profits (E&P), as determined under U.S. federal income tax principles, and generally be taxable to holders of our Class A Common Stock as ordinary dividend income for U.S. federal income tax purposes (to the extent of our current and accumulated E&P). E&P should not be confused with earnings or net income under GAAP. To the extent those distributions exceed our current and accumulated E&P, the distributions will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the holders tax basis in our Class A Common Stock, which will reduce a stockholders tax basis in the Class A Common Stock, and thereafter as capital gain from the sale or exchange of such common stock. Also, if any stockholder sells our Class A Common Stock, the stockholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the stockholders tax basis in such Class A Common Stock. Consequently, such excess distributions will result in a corresponding increase in the amount of gain, or a corresponding decrease in the amount of loss, recognized by the stockholder upon the sale of the Class A Common Stock or subsequent distributions with respect to such stock. Additionally, with regard to U.S. corporate holders of our Class A Common Stock, to the extent that a distribution on our Class A Common Stock exceeds both our current and accumulated E&P and such stockholders tax basis in such shares, such stockholders would be unable to utilize the corporate dividends-received deduction (to the extent it would otherwise be applicable to such stockholder) with respect to the gain resulting from such excess distribution. Further, after we initially report the expected tax characterization of distributions we have paid, the actual characterization, which is not determined with finality until after the end of the tax year in which the distribution occurs, could vary from our expectation with the result that stockholders of our common stock could incur different income tax liabilities than initially expected. Investors in our Class A Common Stock are encouraged to consult their tax advisors as to the tax consequences of receiving distributions on our Class A Common Stock that are not treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock Substantial future sales of shares of our Class A Common Stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A Common Stock into the public market, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) requires us to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and include a report issued by our independent registered public accounting firm based on its audit of the Companys internal control over financial reporting, in each case, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2022. We may identify weaknesses or deficiencies that we may be unable to remedy before the requisite deadline for those reports. Our ability to comply with the annual internal control report requirements will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting and data systems and controls across the Company. We expect these systems and controls to involve significant expenditures and to become increasingly complex as our business grows. To effectively manage this complexity, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Any weaknesses or deficiencies or any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of these controls, could harm our operating results and cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our business and reduce our stock price. Ineffective disclosure