Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believes, project, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, strategy, plan, may, will, would, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe-harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are including this statement for purposes of complying with those safe-harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is inherently uncertain. Factors which could have a material adverse affect on our operations and future prospects on a consolidated basis include, but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, legislative/regulatory changes, availability of capital, interest rates, competition, and generally accepted accounting principles. These risks and uncertainties should also be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further information concerning our business, including additional factors that could materially affect our financial results, is included herein and in our other filings with the SEC. Company Overview Stratean Inc. is in the business of acquiring, licensing and marketing patents and technology to create renewable energy from solid waste. The Company plans to turn todays landfill dilemma into tomorrows energy solution. Stratean Inc's technology converts any organic material into SynGas. SynGas can be used as clean, renewable, environmentally friendly, warming fuel for power plants, motor vehicles, and as feedstock for the generation of DME (Di-Methyl Ether). DME is the premier energy carrier and offers a range of important benefits: Simple and low cost of production An environmentally-benign propellant and coolant Clean-burning and high energy efficiency Lower transportation and distribution costs Easily converted into other fuels and chemicals The Stratean Gasifier converts the following materials into clean, reusable, renewable, and affordable energy: Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) Municipal sewage sludge Food and cooking waste Petroleum sludge and oily wastes Animal manures Cellulosic and non-cellulosic biomass Energy crops Scrap tires Coal 4 Table of Contents The process involves the grinding, drying, separating, mixing, and then pelletizing of solid waste. These pellets constitute the feedstock for the Gasifier. Gasifying the pellets produces SynGas. SynGas can be converted into multiple forms of energy including motor vehicle and jet fuels. The SynGas produced is so clean that it generally does not require hot-gas cleanup. SynGas is mostly hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Hydrogen and carbon monoxide are primary building blocks for fuels and chemicals. SynGas is a clean burning fuel suitable for use in duel-fuel diesel engines, gas turbines, and steam boilers. The Company believes that the Stratean process will turn the worlds waste problem into an abundant, renewable resource of energy. The Stratean production can be adapted to the specific energy requirements of a given area. Communities are expected to benefit from the countless options created including inexpensive green electric power for homes, clean-burning fuel for garbage trucks, street maintenance equipment, or for resale to other municipalities. Because of the modular nature of the components intrinsic to the process, the plant could provide one energy source, then be converted to provide a different energy product. A Stratean facility could produce additional electric power during the peak demand part of the day and produce fuels during the rest of the day. The Companys market segmentation is vast as the Company expects to apply its technology to anything that is carbon based. The markets for which the Company has focused its efforts include: the electric utility market, municipal waste, processing plants, the refining sector, stranded natural gas fields, and Canadian oil sands. The Company has begun pursuing opportunities to utilize the assets and intellectual properties purchased. The Company aims to further develop these technologies in order to pursue licensing, manufacturing and direct sales agreements for its Gasifier technology. The technologies and prototype will begin undergoing clinical lab testing to further establish its capability of producing large volumes of clean, renewable energy from any carbon compound (Municipal Solid Waste (MSW), Coal, Sewage Sludge) into clean Synthesis Gas. The Companys Gasifier is still under development and a commercially viable Gasifier is not expected to be sellable until the first or second quarter of 2015. In December of 2014 the Company executed an agreement with Combustion Resources, LLC to independently test the Companys production model prototype. Combustion was engaged to independently test the Gasifer's performance and certify the results of its performance. The Company believes the results of these independent tests will provide the results needed to prove its commercial viability, at which time the Company would begin to actively market its Gasifer units. The Company has not engaged in any significant negotiations to sell its Gasifier products to any major customers. Once completed, the Company intends to distribute its products through advertisements and sales calls on potential customers with demonstrations of how the products work. The failure to acquire customers to generate revenues will negatively affect the Companys financial performance. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 Operating Expenses The Company had operating expenses of $186,194 for the three months ended December 31, 2014, as compared with $8,287 for the three months ended December 31, 2013. Professional fees increased to $117,772 for the three months ended December 31, 2014 from $0 for the same period ended December 31, 2013. Our professional fees expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2014 consisted mainly of legal expenses and consulting fees. Research and development fees increased to $50,000 for the three months ended December 31, 2014 from $0 for the same period ended December 31, 2013. Our research and development expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2014 consisted mainly of consulting fees to independently test our Gasifier. General and administrative fees increased to $17,782 for the three months ended December 31, 2014 from $8,287 for the same period ended December 31, 2013. Our general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2014 consisted mainly of office expenses and expenses incurred as a result of fundraising efforts. In comparison, our general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2013 consisted mainly of expenses related to SEC compliance. Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $640 for the three months ended December 31, 2014 from $0 for the same period ended December 31, 2013. Other Expenses We had other expenses of $(5,144) for the three months ended December 31, 2014, compared with other expenses of $(1,928) for the three months ended December 31, 2013. Our other expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 consisted mainly of amortization of imputed interest on officer loans. 5 Table of Contents Net Loss We recorded a net loss of $(191,338) for the three months ended December 31, 2014, as compared with a net loss of $(10,215) for the three months ended December 31, 2013. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2014, we had total current assets of $58,087, consisting entirely of cash, and total assets in the amount of $685,877. Our total current liabilities as of December 31, 2014 were $8,949. We had working capital of $49,138 as of December 31, 2014. Operating activities used $(106,944) in cash for the three months ended December 31, 2014. Our net loss of $(191,338) was the main component of our negative operating cash flow, offset mainly by imputed interest of $5,143 and stock based consulting of $80,000. Cash flows used by investing activities during the three months ended December 31, 2014 was $(1,710) as a result of the purchase of fixed assets. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the three months ended December 31, 2014 amounted to $50,000 and consisted of $50,000 in proceeds from our private offering of common stock and warrants. In addition to $50,000 we were able to raise in the sale of our common stock, we were able to settle two promissory notes with a face values of $33,341 and $16,659. Pursuant to the Debt Settlement Agreements, we issued 38,342 shares of common stock and 19,158 shares of common stock, respectively, along with royalties, as provided in the Agreements, to settle the notes. Despite the efforts we have made to raise money and to settle debt, based upon our current financial condition, we do not have sufficient cash to operate our business at the current level for the next twelve months. We intend to fund operations through increased sales and debt and/or equity financing arrangements, which may be insufficient to fund expenditures or other cash requirements. We plan to seek additional financing in a private equity offering to secure funding for operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional funding. If we are not able to secure additional funding, the implementation of our business plan will be impaired. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2014, there were no off balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies In December 2001, the SEC requested that all registrants list their most critical accounting polices in the Management Discussion and Analysis. The SEC indicated that a critical accounting policy is one which is both important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results, and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Going concern The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company has incurred cumulative net losses of $(600,613) since its inception and requires capital for its contemplated operational and marketing activities to take place. The Companys ability to raise additional capital through the future issuances of common stock is unknown. The obtainment of additional financing, the successful development of the Companys contemplated plan of operations, and its transition, ultimately, to the attainment of profitable operations are necessary for the Company to continue operations. The ability to successfully resolve these factors raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements of the Company do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of these aforementioned uncertainties. Use of estimates The process of preparing financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the use of estimates and assumptions regarding certain types of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. Such estimates primarily relate to unsettled transactions and events as of the date of the financial statements. Accordingly, upon settlement, actual results may differ from estimated amounts. Revenue recognition The Company recognizes revenue on arrangements in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements and No. 104, Revenue Recognition. In all cases, revenue is recognized only when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed and collectability is reasonably assured. For the periods ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 the Company reported revenues of $0 and $0, respectively. Long-lived Assets In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounts Standard Codification (ASC) ASC 360-10, "Property, Plant and Equipment," the carrying value of intangible assets and other long-lived assets is reviewed on a regular basis for the existence of facts or circumstances that may suggest impairment. The Company recognizes impairment when the sum of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. Impairment losses, if any, are measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its estimated fair value. 6 Table of Contents