Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections contained in this 3 document, and any subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur, or of which we hereafter become aware. You should read this document completely and with the understanding that our actual future results or events may be materially different from what we expect. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Information regarding market and industry statistics contained in this report is included based on information available to us that we believe is accurate, but that are not produced for purposes of securities filings or economic analysis. We have not independently verified any market, industry or similar data presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and cannot assure you of its accuracy or completeness. Forecasts and other forward-looking information obtained from these sources are subject to the same qualifications and the additional uncertainties accompanying any estimates of future market size, revenue and market acceptance of products and services. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. As a result, investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. 4 PART I Item 1. Business As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms we, us, our, the Company, CleanSpark, Inc. and CleanSpark mean CleanSpark, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. Overview CleanSpark, Inc. is a leading bitcoin mining company incorporated in Nevada, whose common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The Company, through itself and its wholly owned subsidiaries, has operated in the bitcoin mining sector since December 2020. The only cryptocurrency we mine is bitcoin. From March 2014 to June 30, 2022, we provided advanced energy technology solutions to commercial and residential customers to solve modern energy challenges in the alternative energy sector. As of June 30, 2022, we deemed our energy operations to be discontinued operations due to our strategic decision to strictly focus on its bitcoin mining operations and divest of our energy assets. We are currently working on developing a long-term sustainability and clean energy plan with respect to our bitcoin mining operations. We are using clean and renewable energy resources that we currently have reasonable access to in our bitcoin mining locations in order to further support our sustainability efforts. Lines of Business Bitcoin Mining Through CleanSpark, Inc and our wholly owned subsidiaries ATL Data Centers LLC (ATL), CleanBlok, Inc. (CleanBlok), CleanSpark DW, LLC, and CleanSpark GLP, LLC, we mine bitcoin. We entered the bitcoin mining industry through our acquisition of ATL in December 2020, acquired a second data center in August 2021, a third data center and mining equipment in August 2022, a fourth data center and mining equipment in October 2022, and have had a co-location agreement with New York-based Coinmint in place since July 2021. Bitcoin mining has now become our principal revenue generating business activity. We currently intend to continue to acquire additional facilities, equipment and infrastructure capacity to continue to expand our bitcoin mining operations. In August 2022, we completed the acquisition of certain real property located in Wilkes County, Georgia, and approximately 3,400 S19 and S19j Pro series bitcoin miners capable of providing computing power of approximately 341,000 terahash per second. The property acquired provided us with a turn-key data center campus capable of supporting approximately 1 exahash per second of computing power, upon closing of the acquisition. We expect to expand the campus to support approximately 2.6 exahash per second of computing power (collectively, the WAHA and SPRE Assets). In October 2022, we acquired the lease for 16.35 acres of real property located in Sandersville, Washington County, Georgia, all personal property situated on such property, and 6,349 application specific integrated circuit miners (ASICs) capable of providing computing power of approximately 530,000 terahash per second from subsidiaries of Mawson Infrastructure Group, Inc. The property acquired provided the Company with a turn-key data center campus capable of supporting approximately 2.4 exahash per second of computing power, upon closing of the acquisition. The company expects to expand the campus to support approximately 7.0 exahash per second of computing power (collectively, the Mawson Assets). Bitcoin was introduced in 2008 with the goal of serving as a digital means of exchanging and storing value. Bitcoin is a form of digital currency that depends upon a consensus-based network and a public ledger called a blockchain, which contains a record of every bitcoin transaction ever processed. The bitcoin network is the first decentralized peer-to-peer payment network, powered by users participating in the consensus protocol, with no central authority or middlemen, that has wide network participation. The authenticity of each bitcoin transaction is protected through digital signatures that correspond with addresses of users that send and receive bitcoin. Users have full control over remitting bitcoin from their own sending addresses. All transactions on the bitcoin blockchain are transparent, allowing those running the appropriate software to confirm the validity of each transaction. To be recorded on the blockchain, each bitcoin transaction is validated through a proof-of-work consensus method, which entails solving complex mathematical problems to validate transactions and post them on the blockchain. This process is called 5 mining. Miners are rewarded with bitcoins, both in the form of newly-created bitcoins and fees in bitcoin, for successfully solving the mathematical problems and providing computing power to the network. Factors such as access to computer processing capacity, interconnectivity, electricity cost, environmental factors (such as cooling capacity) and location play important roles in mining. As of the date of this filing, our operating mining units are currently capable of producing over 5.75 exahash per second (EH/s) of computing power. In bitcoin mining, hashrate is a measure of the computing and processing power and speed by which a mining computer mines and processes transactions on the bitcoin network. We are actively expanding our bitcoin mining business and as of the date of this filing reached 5.75 EH/s in computing power, which exceeded our target guidance as set in August, 2022 of reaching 5.0 EH/s in computing power by December 31, 2022. We expect to continue increasing our computing power through 2023 and beyond as we expand our infrastructure at our owned sites in the State of Georgia, seek strategic acquisition targets, and through strategic co-location agreements. A companys computing power measured in Hashrate is generally considered to be one of the most important metrics for evaluating bitcoin mining companies. We obtain bitcoin as a result of our mining operations, and we sell bitcoin from time to time, to support our operations and strategic growth. We do not currently plan to engage in regular trading of bitcoin (other than as necessary to convert our bitcoin to U.S. dollars) or to engage in hedging activities related to our holding of bitcoin; however, our decisions to hold or sell bitcoin at any given time may be impacted by the bitcoin market, which has been historically characterized by significant volatility. Currently, we do not use a formula or specific methodology to determine whether or when we will sell bitcoin that we hold, or the number of bitcoins we will sell. Rather, decisions to hold or sell bitcoins are currently determined by management by analyzing forecasts and monitoring the market in real time. Through our wholly owned subsidiaries CSRE Properties, LLC, CSRE Property Management Company LLC, CSRE Properties Norcross, LLC, CSRE Properties Washington, LLC and CSRE Properties Sandersville, LLC we maintain real property holdings. Markets, Geography and Major Customers Bitcoin is a global store and exchange of value used by people across the world as an asset and to conduct daily transactions. Mining bitcoin supports the global bitcoin blockchain and the millions of people that depend on it for economic security and other benefits. Strictly speaking, there is no customer market for mining bitcoin but we consider our mining pool operators as customers because they compensate us for providing processing power to the mining pool (see Item 1A. Risk Factors- Our reliance on a third-party mining pool service provider for our mining revenue payouts may adversely affect an investment in us . ). We own and operate our own facilities and do not lease mining space to other mining companies or private individuals that mine. Our wholly-owned mining operations are located in the State of Georgia in the United States. We also have a relationship with a facility located in New York State that hosts a portion of our miners. Working Capital Items The bitcoin mining industry is highly competitive and dependent on specialized mining machines that have few manufacturers. Machine purchases require large down payments and miner deliveries often arrive many months after initial orders are placed. However, over the last 12 months, we have seen a significant improvement in the availability and pricing for bitcoin mining machines. The current market conditions have provided opportunities to purchase both new and used machines on the spot-market from other miners or retail-dealers of machines for better financial terms and delivery terms, but there can be no guarantee that such opportunities will continue on a long-term basis. Currently, we are purchasing more mining machines through re-sellers than direct through manufacturers. Whether re-sellers or manufacturers have better purchase and delivery terms or more/superior inventory available is likely to change from time to time. At the time we acquired ATL in December 2020, we had approximately 3,471 bitcoin mining units with application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) in operation, which produced approximately 190 petahash/s. Since acquiring ATL, we have expanded its operations and purchased additional ASICs. As of September 30, 2022, we had over 42,000 ASICs in daily operation, which are producing approximately 4.1 EH/s (approximately 58,500 producing 5.75 EH/s as of the date of this filing ) 6 In addition to the 58,500 ASICs in operation as of the date of this filing, the Company has received and is in the process of installing approximately 1,000 additional miners, and expect to receive an additional 6,400 miners in the coming weeks, which have been fully pre-paid. The Company expects to enter into additional agreements to purchase more miners and infrastructure in the coming year. The majority of miners we operate and expect to operate once received are the latest generation of miners manufactured by Bitmain, including the S19, S19-Pro, S19j-Pro and S19 XP. Distribution, Marketing and Strategic Relationships We have developed strategic relationships with well-established companies in key areas including traditional and renewable energy, infrastructure, construction, and bitcoin mining equipment procurement. In addition to operating our own mining facilities, we may engage with third-parties to host and operate mining equipment on behalf of the Company. Coinmint On July 8, 2021, CleanBlok entered into a services agreement with Coinmint, LLC (Coinmint). Pursuant to the agreement, Coinmint has agreed to house and power certain of our cryptocurrency mining equipment in its facilities, and to use commercially reasonable efforts to mine bitcoin on our behalf. All bitcoin mining services performed by Coinmint are conducted using mining equipment owned by the Company. As of the date of this filing, we have deployed approximately 16,400 total miners pursuant to the co-location mining services agreement at Coinmints facility in New York. Pursuant to the agreement, as consideration for the services, we pay Coinmint certain services fees, which are based on the operating costs incurred by Coinmint in performing the services, and a variable fee calculated based on the profitability of the bitcoin mined during the relevant payment period, subject to uptime performance commitments. The agreement had an initial term of one year, after which it renews automatically for three-month periods until terminated in accordance with the terms of the agreement. Lancium On March 29, 2022, the Company entered into a hosting agreement with Lancium LLC (Lancium). Pursuant to the agreement, Lancium has agreed to host, power and provide maintenance and other related services to our mining equipment to be placed at Lancium facilities. Further, Lancium committed to provide 200 megawatts in support of our mining equipment. In addition, for a period of two and a half years following the operations commencement date, we will have an option to increase the power capacity supplied to the equipment up to 500 MW or 40% of the aggregate capacity of all facilities owned and operated by Lancium, whichever is lesser. As of the date of this filing, we have not deployed any miners pursuant to the co-location mining services at Lanciums facility in Texas. Lancium has informed us that they are experiencing significant delays due to the tightening of capital in the current market climate. We now expect the readiness of these facilities to be late calendar 2023, and based on market conditions, perhaps even later. If Lanciums situation improves in a timeline acceptable to us, we anticipate utilizing Lancium as intended but there can be no assurance that their situation or market conditions will improve. As of the date of this filing, we have paid no consideration or deposits to Lancium and, accordingly, there is no direct financial risk with respect to the delays Lancium is currently experiencing. To the extent services are provided in the future, the Company has agreed to compensate Lancium based on a power and hosting fee based on kilowatt hours consumed by the Companys equipment, subject to service level adjustments and credits, if any. The agreement has an initial term of five years from the operations commencement date (unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of the Agreement), after which it will renew automatically for two-year periods unless either party provides notice of non-renewal at least ninety days prior to the expiration of the term or renewal term, as applicable. Materials and Suppliers We engage in high efficiency bitcoin mining by using ASICs. These specialized computers, often called mining rigs, have few manufacturers. A majority of the machines we purchased this year were manufactured by Bitmain, MicroBT 7 or Canaan, the top three preeminent manufacturers of bitcoin mining rigs. All three companies are headquartered in China and manufacture throughout Asia. In addition to ASICS, mining equipment includes networking equipment, power cords, racking, other specialized storage, transformers, and energy equipment. We rely on utility providers for our power needs. These utilities buy into local energy mixes to source power. We make every effort to establish our facilities in locations serviced by utilities that generate a substantial portion of their energy from clean and renewable sources. We supplement a portion of the energy mix provided by our utility providers with the purchase of renewable energy credits because the precise ratio of renewable energy in local energy mixes is not within our control. We have significant exposure to market fluctuations in energy prices through our power providers. We actively manage these risks through activities such as deployment of advanced software solutions to increase unit efficiency and energy curtailment when appropriate. These energy market prices are also significantly impacted by ongoing inflation and the war in Ukraine. Historically, our methodology and operations have been efficient and resilient enough to withstand these market pressures and global events, but there can be no certainty that we will not be negatively affected in the future. We believe that there is significant risk that energy prices will continue to be elevated in 2023. Historically, we have been able to manage our supply chains effectively, but global supply chains continue to be constrained, and from time-to-time experience substantial increases in shipping costs and logistical delays as we make efforts to ensure timely delivery of equipment. There can be no certainty that we will not be affected in the future, and we believe that there is a significant risk that equipment supply chains will continue to be affected in 2023. While some macro-economic indicators available as of the date of this filing suggest that inflation may be slowing, inflationary pressures impact virtually all aspects of our materials and suppliers, including power prices, and are likely to impact our fiscal year 2023. Environmental Issues No significant pollution or other types of hazardous emission result from the Companys direct operations and it is not anticipated that our operations will be materially affected by federal, state or local provisions concerning environmental controls. Our costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements have not been material. Starting in the fourth calendar quarter of 2021, we began to voluntarily purchase renewable energy credits to offset a significant portion of our energy usage that is derived from non-renewable sources. The Company has also engaged market professionals to enhance and build a comprehensive environmental, social and governance (ESG) strategy. There are increasing concerns over the large energy usage of bitcoin mining and its effects on the environment. Many media reports focus exclusively on the energy requirements of bitcoin mining and cite it as an environmental concern. However, we do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on our business or markets that we serve, nor on our results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position. We continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. Competition Bitcoin mining is a global activity. During fiscal year 2021, a majority of bitcoin mining occurred in China. After China banned bitcoin mining in May 2021, the center of mining moved to North America. Although bitcoin mining by its nature is not a directly competitive business, all miners compete for bitcoin rewards; based on this, we define competitors as other bitcoin miners. Our competitors include large, publicly-listed mining companies, large private mining companies, and, in some cases, independent, individual miners who pool resources. We believe our principal competitive advantages include our energy background, a combination of owned, operated, and co-located miners and facilities, our strategic use of the bitcoin we mine to fund operations growth, and our commitment to sustainable business practices, including sourcing renewable energy. Within North America, our major competitors include: Marathon Digital Holdings 8 Riot Blockchain, Inc. Core Scientific, Inc. Bitfarms LTD. Iris Energy Limited In addition to the foregoing, we compete with other companies that focus all or a portion of their activities on mining activities at scale. We face significant competition in certain operational aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, the acquisition of new miners, obtaining low cost electricity, obtaining clean energy sources, obtaining access to energy sites with reliable sources of power, and evaluating new technology developments in the industry. Intellectual Property We do not currently own any patents in connection with our existing and planned bitcoin mining related operations. We do rely, and expect to continue relying, upon trade secrets, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. Government Regulation Bitcoin Mining Cryptocurrency mining is largely an unregulated activity at both the state and federal level. We anticipate that cryptocurrency mining will be a focus for increased regulation in the near- and long-term, and we cannot predict how future regulations may affect our business or operations. State regulation of cryptocurrency mining is important with respect to where we conduct our mining operations. The majority of our mining facilities are located in Georgia, which is one of the most favorable regulatory environments for cryptocurrency miners. However, we also have co-location operations in New York, which has generally been more aggressive in its regulation of cryptocurrency. Current New York regulation, including a recent moratorium on certain bitcoin mining operations that run on carbon-based power sources signed into law on November 22, 2022, in our view, do not impact our decision to operate our miners at the Coinmint facility in New York in the foreseeable future; however, if the regulatory landscape changes, we would have to evaluate whether to relocate our hosted miners to one of our facilities in Georgia or to other facilities outside of New York State, which could be costly and we would not be able to operate the miners while they are being relocated. Further, in March 2022, the United States announced plans to establish a unified federal regulatory regime for cryptocurrency, and a group of United States Senators sent a letter to the United States Treasury Department asking Treasury Secretary Yellen to investigate Treasurys ability to monitor and restrict the use of cryptocurrencies to evade sanctions imposed by the United States. We are unable to predict the impact that any new regulations may have on our business at the time of filing this Annual Report. We continue to monitor and proactively engage in dialogue on legislative matters related to our industry. In August 2021, the chair of the SEC stated that he believed investors using digital asset trading platforms are not adequately protected, and that activities on the platforms can implicate the securities laws, commodities laws and banking laws, raising a number of issues related to protecting investors and consumers, guarding against illicit activity, and ensuring financial stability. The chair expressed a need for the SEC to have additional authorities to prevent transactions, products, and platforms from falling between regulatory cracks, as well as for more resources to protect investors in this growing and volatile sector. The chair called for federal legislation centering on digital asset trading, lending, and decentralized finance platforms, seeking additional plenary authority to write rules for digital asset trading and lending. In addition, it is possible the failure of FTX Trading Ltd. (FTX) in November 2022 and the resulting market turmoil could lead to increased SEC, CFTC, or criminal investigations, enforcement, and/or other regulatory activity. While these statements are focused on digital asset exchanges (not bitcoin miners), the failure of large exchanges may impact the adoption and value of bitcoin. Additionally, because we store and sell our bitcoin on exchanges, we may also be potentially impacted by exchange failures in that respect. For those reasons, we carefully vet our custodians 9 for adequate compliance with U.S. laws as well as liquidity, using the information available to us, but we cannot be certain that we will be able to avoid the negative effects of a large exchange failure. As the regulatory and legal environment evolves, we may become subject to new laws, such as further regulation by the SEC, CFTC, and other agencies, which may affect our mining and other activities. For additional discussion regarding our belief about the potential risks existing and future regulation pose to our business, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors beginning on page 11 of this Annual Report. Cybersecurity Our share of bitcoins mined from our pools are initially received by us in wallets we control, which are maintained by Coinbase Inc., a U.S. based digital assets exchange. We currently sell the majority of the bitcoin we mine and utilize hot wallets to hold this bitcoin immediately prior to selling for working capital purposes. We hold any remainder of our bitcoin in cold storage. Bitcoins we mine or hold for our own account may be subject to loss, theft or restriction on access. Hackers or malicious actors may launch attacks to steal, compromise or secure bitcoins, such as by attacking the bitcoin network source code, exchange miners, third-party platforms (including Coinbase), cold and hot storage locations or software, or by other means. We may be in control and possession of substantial holdings of bitcoin, and as we increase in size, we may become a more appealing target of hackers, malware, cyber-attacks or other security threats. We have established a Cybersecurity Committee, with the purpose of meeting at least semi-annually and providing recommendations to Executive Management with respect to our information technology use and protection, including but not limited to data governance, privacy, compliance and cybersecurity. To our knowledge there has been no security breach or incident, unauthorized access or disclosure, or other compromise of or relating to the Company or its subsidiaries hard wallets, cold wallets, information technology and computer systems, networks, hardware, software, data and databases, equipment or technology. We have not been notified of, and has no knowledge of any event or condition that could result in, any security breach or incident, unauthorized access or disclosure or other compromise to their IT Systems and Data, and we have implemented appropriate controls, policies, procedures, and technological safeguards to maintain and protect the integrity, continuous operation, redundancy and security of our IT Systems and Data reasonably consistent with industry standards and practices, or as required by applicable regulatory standards. We are presently in material compliance with all applicable laws or statutes and all judgments, orders, rules and regulations of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, internal policies and contractual obligations relating to the privacy and security of IT Systems and Data and to the protection of such IT Systems and Data from unauthorized use, access, misappropriation or modification. Human Capital Resources; Employees; Personnel We believe that our future success depends, in no small part, on our ability to continue to attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel. As of December 1, 2022, we had 130 staff members, 121 of which were full time and all located in the United States. We believe that we have adequate personnel and resources with the specialized skills required to carry out our operations successfully. Employees participate in equity incentive plans and receive generous compensation in the form of salary and benefits. We continually seek to hire and retain talented professionals, although the competition for such personnel in our segments is significant. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe we have a strong and engaging relationship with our employees. We cultivate trust and transparency among our employees, the communities we operate in, and the people around the world who depend on Bitcoin as we jointly strive to leave the world better than we found it, build the infrastructure of the future, and value growth for the greater good. Discontinued Operations As of June 30, 2022, we deemed our energy operations to be discontinued operations due to our strategic decision to strictly focus on bitcoin mining operations and divest of the majority of our energy assets. 10 Through our discontinued operations segment, we previously provided energy solutions through our wholly-owned subsidiaries CleanSpark, LLC, CleanSpark Critical Power Systems, Inc., GridFabric, LLC, and through ATL Solar Watt Solutions, Inc. These solutions consisted of engineering, design and software solutions, custom hardware solutions, Open Automated Demand response (OpenADR), solar, energy storage for microgrid and distributed energy systems. We have since sold the majority of oursoftware and intellectual property assets related to the Energy Segment (including mPulse, mVoult and GridFabric LLC), and we are in the process of selling additional inventory and other assets. We still own patented gasification energy technologies and are not currently planning to sell or market these technologies. Our technology converts organic material into synthesis gas, which can be used as fuel for a variety of applications and as feedstock for the generation of DME (Di-Methyl Ether). Other business activities Through ATL, we also provide traditional data center services to a small number of remaining clients, such as providing customers with rack space, power and equipment, and offer several cloud services including virtual services, virtual storage, and data backup services. ATL is in the process of offloading these customers. Company Websites We maintain a corporate website at: www.cleanspark.com. The contents of these websites are not incorporated in, or otherwise to be regarded as part of, this Annual Report. We file reports with the SEC, which are available on our website free of charge. These reports include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings on Form 3, Form 4, and Form 5, and other related filings and exhibits, each of which is provided on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such materials with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including the Company. Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks that may materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. In evaluating an investment in shares of our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information included in this Annual Report. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, or if additional risks and uncertainties later materialize, that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, then our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our shares. The risks discussed below include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risk Factors Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our common stock speculative or risky. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this risk factor summary, and other risks that we face, can be found below and should be carefully considered, together with other information included in this Annual Report. Risks Related to Our Business our dependence on the price of bitcoin to achieve profitability, which has historically been volatile; our limited operating history and history of operating losses and negative cash flow; 11 supply chain and shipping disruptions have resulted in shipping delays, a significant increase in lead times and shipping costs, and could increase expansion costs and result in lower or delayed bitcoin production; volatile and unpredictable cycles in the emerging and evolving industries in which we operate; competition in the markets in which we operate; our reliance on and ability to manage our construction contractors and suppliers to meet our expansion efforts in keeping with planned timelines and cost estimates; our reliance on our management team, and any failure by management to properly manage growth; future strategic acquisitions and other arrangements that we engage in, which could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders, reduce our financial resources and harm our operating results; our ability to timely complete our future strategic growth initiatives or within our anticipated cost; increased compliance costs as a result of our strategic acquisitions; our need for financing in the future to sustain and expand our operations and any inability to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, or at all; we maintain our cash at financial institutions, which at times, exceed federally insured limits; the uncertain impact of geopolitical and economic events on the demand for bitcoin; our exposure to pricing risk and volatility associated with the value of bitcoin because we do not hedge our investment in bitcoin; the development and acceptance of competing blockchain platforms or technologies; the reward for successfully solving a block will halve in the future and its value may not adjust to compensate us for the reduction in the rewards we receive from our mining efforts; our reliance on a third-party mining pool service provider for our mining revenue payouts; forks in the bitcoin network; the open-source structure of the bitcoin network protocol and any failure to properly monitor and upgrade the protocol; the possibility that banks and financial institutions may not provide services to businesses that engage in cryptocurrency-related activities; the lack of limitations of FDIC or SIPC protections for the bitcoin we hold; bitcoins we mine or hold for our own account may be subject to loss, theft, or restriction on access; potential actions of malicious actors or botnets; the loss or destruction of private keys required to access our bitcoins and potential data loss relating to our bitcoins; potential failures of digital asset exchanges and custodians; inadequate sources of recovery if our digital assets are lost, stolen or destroyed; the irreversibility of incorrect or fraudulent bitcoin transactions; potential Internet disruptions; the limited rights of legal recourse available to us following any loss of our bitcoins; the sale of our bitcoins to pay for expenses a time of low bitcoin prices; the possibility that a cryptocurrency other than bitcoin could be more desirable to the digital asset user base; the possibility that our mining costs may exceed our mining revenues; damage of the properties included in our mining operation and potential inability to get adequate insurance coverage for same; our need for significant electrical power to support our mining operations; increased scrutiny and changing expectations from stakeholders with respect to ESG practices and the impacts of climate change; our operations and profitability may be adversely affected by competition from other methods of cryptocurrencies; the possibility that large holders of bitcoin may sell bitcoin into the market in large amounts all at once, thereby impacting the growth of the price of bitcoin; potential that, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by a custodian, bitcoin held in custody could be determined to be property of a bankruptcy estate and we could be considered a general unsecured creditor thereof; risks related to technological obsolescence, the vulnerability of the global supply chain for cryptocurrency hardware disruption, and difficulty in obtaining new hardware; 12 the limited precedent for financial accounting of digital assets, and the possibility of future accounting requirements for transactions involving digital assets; possibility of failure to grow our hashrate; risks arising from pandemics, epidemics or an outbreak of diseases, such as the recent outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic; global economic conditions, including continuing or worsening inflationary issues and associated changes in monetary policy and potential economic recession, and geopolitical events such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the subsequent imposition of sanctions as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; potential product defect or liability suits, or any recall of our products, particularly those in the discontinued operations; Risks Related to Governmental Regulation and Enforcement Operations potential changes in laws and regulations applicable to mining bitcoin, bitcoin itself, or interpretations thereof, including, without limitation, banking regulations and securities regulations and regulations governing mining activities, both in the U.S. and in other countries; we may incur additional compliance costs if deemed subject to the Commodity Exchange Act; the risk that the SEC or another regulatory body considers bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency to be a security; changing environmental regulation and public energy policy; future developments regarding the treatment of digital assets for U.S. federal income and applicable state, local and non-U.S. tax purposes; potential exposure to specifically designated nationals or blocked persons as a result of our interactions with the bitcoin network; Risks Related to Our Securities the price of our common stock may be volatile and could fluctuate widely in price; any future issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect holders of our common stock, as shares of preferred stock may have additional rights, preferences and privileges as compared to the common stock; we are currently the subject of a shareholder class action, and may be subject to shareholder litigation in the future; our costs of defending such litigation, arbitration and other proceedings and any adverse outcome of such litigation, arbitration or other proceeding may have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations; we have financed our strategic growth primarily by issuing new shares of our common stock, which dilutes the ownership interests of current stockholders; we have not, and do not intend to, pay dividends on shares of our common stock; if securities or industry analysts do not publish or do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline; our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations; significant costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, and the possible failure to comply with internal control over financial reporting requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; we qualify as a smaller reporting company and are subject to scaled disclosure requirements; and provisions in the Nevada Revised Statutes and our Bylaws could make it very difficult for an investor to bring any legal actions against our directors or officers for violations of their fiduciary duties or could require us to pay any amounts incurred by our directors or officers in any such actions. Risks Related to Our Business Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent on the price of bitcoin, which has historically been volatile. Our primary focus on our bitcoin mining operations and our associated expansion efforts is largely based on our assumptions regarding the future value of bitcoin, which has been subject to significant historical volatility and may 13 be subject to influence from malicious actors, real or perceived scarcity, political, economic, and regulatory conditions, and speculation making its price more volatile. It is difficult to accurately predict the future market price of bitcoin and may also inhibit consumer trust in and market acceptance of bitcoin as a means of exchange, which could limit the future adoption of bitcoin and, as a result, our assumptions could prove incorrect. If our assumptions prove incorrect and the future price of bitcoin is not sufficiently high, our income from our bitcoin mining operations may not exceed our costs, and our operations may never achieve profitability. We have a limited operating history and a history of operating losses and negative cash flow, and we may never achieve consistent profitability. Our limited operating history, in particular our recent entry into the bitcoin mining business, makes it difficult to evaluate our business and predict our future results of operations. Although we have achieved profitable quarters in the past, to date, we have not maintained consistent profitability from period to period, and no assurances can be made that we will achieve consistent profitability in the near future, if ever. From the Companys inception through September 30, 2022, we sustained $196,053,911 in cumulative net losses, and we had a net loss from our continuing operations for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 of $40,089,393. We have generated these losses as we execute our business plan and expand on our bitcoin mining activities as bitcoin prices are in a bear market. We will continue to recognize losses in our continuing operations unless and until bitcoin prices recover. Supply chain and shipping disruptions have resulted in shipping delays, a significant increase in lead times and shipping costs, and could increase expansion costs and result in lower or delayed bitcoin production. Supply chain disruptions, resulting from factors such as the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation, labor supply and shipping container shortages, have impacted, and may continue to impact, us and our third-party manufacturers and suppliers. These disruptions have resulted in longer lead times and increased product costs and shipping expenses, including with respect to the delivery of miners that we have purchased. While we have taken steps to minimize the impact of these increased costs by working closely with our suppliers and customers, there can be no assurances that unforeseen events impacting the supply chain will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future. Additionally, the impacts supply chain disruptions have on our third-party manufacturers and suppliers are not within our control. Although we have seen improvements in the last 12 months, it is not currently possible to predict how long it will take for these supply chain disruptions to return to pre-pandemic levels, if at all. Prolonged supply chain disruptions impacting us and our third-party manufacturers and suppliers could increase lead times, delay expansion efforts, increase product costs , result in reduced bitcoin production, result in a delay in the delivery of miners that we have purchased, and continue to increase shipping costs associated with the delivery of our purchased miners, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future success is difficult to predict because we operate in emerging and evolving industries that are subject to volatile and unpredictable cycles. The bitcoin mining and related industries are emerging and evolving, which may lead to period-to-period variability in our operating results and may make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes in our business environment or to accurately assess where we are positioned within a business cycle, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and we may be unable to successfully compete. We compete in the highly competitive market for certain operational aspects of our bitcoin mining business, including, but not limited to, the acquisition of new miners, obtaining the lowest cost of electricity, obtaining clean energy sources, obtaining access to energy sites with reliable sources of power, and evaluating new technology developments in the industry. Evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and product obsolescence impact the market and its various participants, including us. Our competitors include many domestic and foreign companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, which may cause us to be at a competitive disadvantage. The success of our bitcoin mining business will be dependent upon our ability to 14 purchase additional miners, adapt to changes in technology in the industry, and to obtain sufficient energy at reasonable prices, amongst other things. A significant part of our success will depend on our reliance on and ability to manage our construction contractors and suppliers, including mining equipment suppliers, in order to meet our expansion efforts in keeping with planned timelines and cost estimates, and any failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and relations with our customers. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for the purchase and delivery of our miners to support our bitcoin mining operations. There can be no assurance that such key suppliers and manufacturers will provide components, products or miners in a timely and cost-efficient manner or otherwise meet our needs and expectations. Any disruption in such key suppliers or manufacturers could delay our ability to expand our bitcoin mining operations. Our ability to manage such relationships and timely replace suppliers and manufacturers, if necessary, is critical to our success. Our failure to timely replace our manufacturers and suppliers, should that become necessary, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, we depend on Bitmain, MicroBT and Canaan for our mining rigs and any change in their ability to manufacture and deliver these products could have a significant impact on our results of operations. Additionally, we are reliant on third parties for our expansion efforts, including construction contractors and suppliers of infrastructure, to provide accurate estimates and timelines. If those parties experience delays, cannot access adequate capital, are exposed to inflation pressures or supply chain disruptions, our expansion efforts will be similarly impacted. We rely heavily on our management team, whose continued service and performance is critical to our future success. Any failure by management to properly manage growth, including hiring and retaining competent and skilled management and other personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We currently have four executive officers our Chief Executive Officer and President, Zachary Bradford, our Chief Financial Officer, Gary Vecchiarelli, our Chief Communications Officer, Isaac Holyoak, and S. Matthew Schulz, our Executive Chairman who are responsible for our management functions and are responsible for strategic development, financing and other critical functions. Some of the members of our management team and our Board of Directors do not have prior experience in the bitcoin mining industry. This lack of experience may impair our management teams and directors ability to evaluate and make well-informed decisions involving our current operations and any future projects we may undertake in the industries in which we operate. Such impairment and lack of experience could adversely affect our business, financial condition and future operations. Our future success depends significantly on the continued service and performance of our existing management team. The departure, death, disability or other extended loss of services of any member of our management team, particularly with little or no notice, could cause delays on projects, frustrate our growth prospects and could have an adverse impact on our industry relationships, our project exploration and development programs, other aspects of our business and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects. Our success, growth prospects, and ability to capitalize on market opportunities also depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, hire, motivate and retain qualified managerial personnel, including additional senior members of management. Our growth may be constrained by resource limitations as competitors and customers compete for increasingly scarce human capital resources. The demand for professionals familiar with bitcoin mining and other skilled workers is currently high. Our competitors may be able to offer a work environment with higher compensation or more opportunities than we can. Any new personnel we hire may not be or become as productive as we expect, as we may face challenges in adequately or appropriately integrating them into our workforce and culture. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, our ability to successfully implement our business plan, grow our company and maintain or expand our mining operations may be adversely affected, and the costs of doing so may increase, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our expansion could also place significant demands on our management, operations, systems, accounting, internal controls and financial resources. If we experience difficulties in any of these areas, we may not be able to expand our business successfully or effectively manage our growth. Any failure by management to manage growth and to respond 15 to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have engaged in, and in the future may engage in, strategic acquisitions and other arrangements that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders, reduce our financial resources and harm our operating results. We have previously engaged in strategic transactions, including acquisitions of companies, technologies and personnel, such as our recent acquisitions of the Mawson Assets in October 2022, WAHA and SPRE Assets in August 2022, ATL in December 2020, and, as part of our growth strategy, in the future, we may seek additional opportunities to grow our mining operations, including through purchases of miners and facilities from other operating companies, including companies in financial distress. Our ability to grow through future acquisitions will depend on the availability of, and our ability to identify, suitable acquisition and investment opportunities at an acceptable cost, our ability to compete effectively to attract those opportunities and the availability of financing to complete acquisitions. Future acquisitions may require us to issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders percentage ownership, assume or otherwise be subject to liabilities of an acquired company, record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, incur large acquisition and integration costs, immediate write-offs, and restructuring and other related expenses, and become subject to litigation. The benefits of an acquisition may also take considerable time to develop, and we cannot be certain that any particular acquisition will produce the intended benefits in a timely manner or to the extent anticipated or at all. We may experience difficulties integrating the operations, technologies, and personnel of an acquired company or be subjected to liability for the targets pre-acquisition activities or operations as a successor in interest. Such integration may divert managements attention from normal daily operations of our business. Future acquisitions may also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, especially when competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, the possibility of insufficient revenues to offset the expenses we incur in connection with an acquisition and potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees and suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. We may not be able to timely complete our future strategic growth initiatives or within our anticipated cost estimates, if at all. As part of our efforts to grow our hashrate and remain competitive in the market, we have acquired facilities, entered into new and re-negotiated purchased power agreements and invested in additional new and used mining equipment. We are also reliant on third parties for our expansion efforts, including construction contractors and providers of infrastructure equipment, who may be burdened by delays in manufacturing, supply chain problems, less access to capital due to macro economic-conditions, or inflation. This could increase our costs and/or delay our expansion and acquisition efforts. If we are unable to complete our planned expansions or acquisitions on schedule and within our anticipated cost estimates, our deployment of newly purchased miners may be delayed, which could affect our competitiveness and our results of operation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market price for our securities. We may experience increased compliance costs as a result of our strategic acquisitions. The financial statements and internal controls related to the Mawson Assets and the WAHA and SPRE Assets have not, historically, been required to be in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act). Further, future strategic acquisitions could carry substantial compliance burdens, which may limit our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, and which may require our management and personnel to shift their focus to such compliance burdens and away from their other functions. Such increased costs and compliance burdens could affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of such strategic acquisitions, and our business, results of operations, and financial condition may suffer as a result. In the future, we may require additional financing to sustain and expand our operations, and we may not be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects. 16 Our ability to operate profitably and to grow our business is dependent upon, among other things, generating sufficient revenue from our operations and, when and if needed, obtaining financing. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenues to operate and/or expand our business, we will be required to raise additional capital to fund operating deficits (if applicable) and growth of our business, pursue our business plans and to finance our operating activities, including through equity or debt financings, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain capital through sales of bitcoin would also be impacted by declines in the price of bitcoin. We have raised capital to finance our strategic growth of our business through public offerings of our common stock, including through our at-the-market offering program, and we expect to need to raise additional capital through similar public offerings to finance the completion of current and future expansion initiatives. Utilizing those sources may be more challenging in the current financial market conditions, in particular where trading volume is diminished. We may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could impair our growth and adversely impact our existing operations. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, stockholder ownership interest in the Company may be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect rights as a stockholder. Debt and equity financings, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as redeeming our shares of common stock, making investments, incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. We maintain our cash at financial institutions, which at times, exceed federally insured limits. The majority of our cash is held in accounts at U.S. banking institutions that we believe are of high quality. Cash held in non-interest-bearing and interest-bearing operating accounts may exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. If such banking institutions were to fail, we could lose all or a portion of those amounts held in excess of such insurance limitations. The impact of geopolitical and economic events on the demand for bitcoin is uncertain. Geopolitical crises may trigger large-scale purchases of bitcoin, which could rapidly increase their prices. This may, however, also increase the likelihood of a subsequent price swing in the opposite direction as crisis-driven purchasing behavior dissipates, ultimately decreasing the value of bitcoins or any other digital asset in our possession. Such risks are similar to the risks of purchasing commodities in generally uncertain times, such as the risk of purchasing, holding or selling gold. Alternatively, global crises and economic downturns may discourage investment in bitcoin and digital assets in general as investors shift their investments towards less volatile asset classes. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. The value of bitcoin has historically been subject to wide swings. Because we do not currently hedge our investment in bitcoin and do not intend to for the foreseeable future, we are directly exposed to bitcoins price volatility and surrounding risks. While bitcoin prices are determined primarily using data from various exchanges, over-the-counter markets and derivative platforms, they have historically been volatile and are impacted by a variety of factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the worldwide growth in the adoption and use of bitcoins, the maintenance and development of the software protocol of the bitcoin network, changes in consumer demographics and public tastes, fraudulent or illegitimate actors, real or perceived scarcity, and political, economic, regulatory or other conditions. Furthermore, pricing may be the result of, and may continue to result in, speculation regarding future appreciation in the value of bitcoin, or our share price, making prices more volatile. Currently, we do not use a formula or specific methodology to determine whether or when we will sell bitcoin that we hold, or the number of bitcoins we will sell. Rather, decisions to hold or sell bitcoins are currently determined by management by analyzing forecasts and monitoring the market in real time. Such decisions, however well-informed, 17 may result in untimely sales and even losses, adversely affecting an investment in us. At this time, we do not anticipate engaging in any hedging activities related to our holding of bitcoin; this would expose us to substantial decreases in the price of bitcoin. The development and acceptance of competing blockchain platforms or technologies may cause consumers to use alternative distributed ledgers or other alternatives. The development and acceptance of competing blockchain platforms or technologies may cause consumers to abandon bitcoin. As we exclusively mine, and expect to exclusively mine bitcoin, we could face difficulty adapting to emergent digital ledgers, blockchains, or alternatives thereto. This could prevent us from realizing the anticipated profits from our investments. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account and harm investors. Bitcoin is subject to halving; the reward for successfully solving a block will halve several times in the future and its value may not adjust to compensate us for the reduction in the rewards we receive from our mining efforts. Halving is a process designed to control the overall supply and reduce the risk of inflation in cryptocurrencies using a Proof-of-Work consensus algorithm. In an event referred to as bitcoin halving, the bitcoin reward for mining any block is cut in half. For example, the mining reward for bitcoin declined from 12.5 to 6.25 bitcoin on May 11, 2020. This process is scheduled to occur once every 210,000 blocks, or roughly four years, until the total amount of bitcoin rewards issued reaches 21 million, which is expected to occur around 2140. Once 21 million bitcoin are generated, the network will stop producing more. Currently, there are more than 19 million bitcoin in circulation. While bitcoin prices have had a history of price fluctuations around halving events, there is no guarantee that the price change will be favorable or would compensate for the reduction in mining reward. If a corresponding and proportionate increase in the price of bitcoin does not follow these anticipated halving events, the revenue from our mining operations would decrease, and we may not have an adequate incentive to continue mining and may cease mining operations altogether, which may adversely affect an investment in us. Furthermore, such reductions in bitcoin rewards for uncovering blocks may result in a reduction in the aggregate hashrate of the bitcoin network as the incentive for miners decreases. Miners ceasing operations would reduce the collective processing power on the network, which would adversely affect the confirmation process for transactions and make the bitcoin network more vulnerable to malicious actors or botnets obtaining control in excess of 50 % of the processing power active on the blockchain. Such events may adversely affect our activities and an investment in us. Our reliance on a third-party mining pool service provider for our mining revenue payouts may adversely affect an investment in us. We currently rely on Foundry Digitals (pool), open access mining pool that support bitcoin, to receive our mining rewards and fees from the network. Our pool has the sole discretion to modify the terms of our agreement at any time, and, therefore, our future rights and relationship with our pool may change. In general, mining pools allow miners to combine their computing and processing power, increasing their chances of solving a block and getting rewarded by the bitcoin network. The rewards, distributed proportionally to our contribution to the pools overall mining power, are distributed by the pool operator. Should our pools operator systems suffer downtime due to a cyber-attack, software malfunction or other similar issues, it will negatively impact our ability to mine and receive revenue. Furthermore, while we receive daily reports from our pools detailing the total processing power provided to the pools and the proportion of that total processing power, we provided to determine the distribution of rewards to us, we are dependent on the accuracy of our pools record keeping. Therefore, we have little means of recourse against our pools operators if we determine the proportion of the reward paid out to us by the mining pool operator is incorrect, other than leaving the pools. If we are unable to consistently obtain accurate proportionate rewards from our pools, we may experience reduced rewards for our efforts, which would have an adverse effect on our business and operations. Forks in the bitcoin network may occur in the future, which may affect the value of bitcoins held by us. A small group of contributors can propose refinements or improvements to the bitcoin networks source code that alter the protocols and software that govern the bitcoin network and the properties of bitcoin, including the 18 irreversibility of transactions and limitations on the mining of new bitcoin. This is known as a fork. In the event a developer or group of developers proposes modifications to the bitcoin network that are not accepted by a majority of miners and users, but that is nonetheless accepted by a substantial plurality of miners and users, two or more competing and incompatible blockchain implementations could result. This is known as a hard fork. The value of bitcoin after the creation of a fork is subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, the value of the fork product, market reaction to the creation of the fork product, and the occurrence of forks in the future. As such, existing forks, such as Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin Gold, and future forks may have a negative effect on bitcoins value and may adversely affect an investment in us. The open-source structure of the bitcoin network protocol means that the contributors to the protocol are generally not directly compensated for their contributions in maintaining and developing the protocol. A failure to properly monitor and upgrade the protocol could damage the bitcoin network and an investment in us. As an open-source project, bitcoin does not generate revenues for its contributors, and contributors are generally not compensated for maintaining and updating the bitcoin network protocol. The lack of guaranteed financial incentives for contributors to maintain or develop the bitcoin network and the lack of guaranteed resources to adequately address emerging issues with the bitcoin network may reduce incentives to address the issues adequately or in a timely manner. To the extent that contributors may fail to adequately update and maintain the bitcoin network protocol, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. Banks and financial institutions may not provide banking services, or may cut off services, to businesses that engage in cryptocurrency-related activities. A number of companies that engage in bitcoin and/or other cryptocurrency-related activities have been unable to find banks or financial institutions that are willing to provide them with bank accounts and other services. Similarly, a number of companies and individuals or businesses associated with cryptocurrencies may have had and may continue to have their existing bank accounts closed or services discontinued with financial institutions. To the extent that such events may happen to us, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. Bitcoins held by us are not subject to FDIC or SIPC protections. We do not hold our bitcoins with a banking institution or a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), and, therefore, our bitcoins are not subject to the protections enjoyed by depositors with FDIC or SIPC member institutions. As a result, we may suffer a loss with respect to our bitcoins that is not covered by insurance, and we may not be able to recover any of our carried value in these bitcoins if they are lost or stolen or suffer significant and sustained reduction in conversion spot price. If we are not otherwise able to recover damages from a malicious actor in connection with these losses, our business and results of operations may suffer, which may have a material negative impact on our stock price. Bitcoins we mine or hold for our own account may be subject to loss, theft or restriction on access. There is a risk that some or all of our bitcoins could be lost or stolen. Bitcoins are stored in and accessed by cryptocurrency sites commonly referred to as wallets. A hot wallet refers to any cryptocurrency wallet that is connected to the Internet. Generally, hot wallets are easier to set up and access than wallets in cold storage, but they are also more susceptible to hackers and other technical vulnerabilities. Cold storage refers to any cryptocurrency wallet that is not connected to the Internet. Cold storage is generally more secure than hot storage, but is not ideal for quick or regular transactions. When we keep our bitcoin in cold storage, we may experience lag time in our ability to respond to market fluctuations in the price of our cryptocurrency assets. We currently mine bitcoin by contributing to and benefiting from our pools processing power. Our share of bitcoins mined from our pools are initially received by us in wallets we control, which are maintained by Coinbase Inc., a U.S. based digital assets exchange. We currently sell the majority of the bitcoin we mine and utilize hot wallets to hold this 19 bitcoin immediately prior to selling for working capital purposes. We hold any remainder of our bitcoin in cold storage. Bitcoins we mine or hold for our own account may be subject to loss, theft or restriction on access. Hackers or malicious actors may launch attacks to steal, compromise or secure bitcoins, such as by attacking the bitcoin network source code, exchange miners, third-party platforms (including Coinbase), cold and hot storage locations or software, or by other means. We may be in control and possession of substantial holdings of bitcoin, and as we increase in size, we may become a more appealing target of hackers, malware, cyber-attacks or other security threats. Any of these events may adversely affect our operations and, consequently, our investments and profitability. If a malicious actor or botnet obtains control of more than 50% of the processing power on the bitcoin network, such actor or botnet could manipulate the network to adversely affect us, which would adversely affect an investment in us. If a malicious actor or botnet, a collection of computers controlled by networked software coordinating the actions of the computers, obtains over 50% of the processing power dedicated to mining bitcoin, such actor may be able to construct fraudulent blocks or prevent certain transactions from completing in a timely manner, or at all. The malicious actor or botnet could control, exclude or modify the order of transactions, though it could not generate new units or transactions using such control. The malicious actor could also double-spend, or spend the same bitcoin in more than one transaction, or it could prevent transactions from being validated. In certain instances, reversing any fraudulent or malicious changes made to the bitcoin blockchain may not be possible. Although there are no known reports of malicious activity or control of blockchains achieved through controlling over 50% of the processing power on the bitcoin network, it is believed that certain mining pools may have exceeded, and could exceed, the 50% threshold on the bitcoin network. This possibility creates a greater risk that a single mining pool could exert authority over the validation of bitcoin transactions. To the extent that the bitcoin ecosystem, and the administrators of mining pools, do not have adequate controls and responses in place, the risk of a malicious actor obtaining control of the processing power may increase. If such an event were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account and harm investors. The loss or destruction of private keys required to access our bitcoins may be irreversible. Our loss of access to our private keys or our experience of a data loss relating to our bitcoins could adversely affect an investment in us. Bitcoins may only be controlled by the possessor of both the unique public and private keys relating to the local or online digital wallet in which they are held. We publish the public key relating to digital wallets in use when we verify the receipt or transfers of bitcoins to and from our wallets and disseminate such information into the network on an anonymous basis, but we safeguard the private keys relating to such digital wallets. Digital asset exchanges, such as Coinbase, where we hold our bitcoin, engage in similar practices. To the extent such private keys are lost, destroyed or otherwise compromised, we will be unable to access our bitcoins and such private keys may not be capable of being restored by any network. Any loss of private keys relating to digital wallets used to store our bitcoins whether by us or digital asset exchanges where we hold our bitcoin, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. The digital asset exchanges on which cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin, trade are relatively new and largely unregulated, and thus may be exposed to fraud and failure. Such failures may result in a reduction in the price of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies and can adversely affect an investment in us. Digital asset exchanges on which cryptocurrencies trade are relatively new and, in most cases, largely unregulated. Many digital exchanges do not provide the public with significant information regarding their ownership structure, management teams, corporate practices or regulatory compliance. As a result, the marketplace may lose confidence in, or may experience problems relating to, cryptocurrency exchanges, including prominent exchanges handling a significant portion of the volume of digital asset trading. For example, in the first half of 2022, each of Celsius Network, Voyager Digital Ltd., and Three Arrows Capital declared bankruptcy, resulting in a loss of confidence in participants of the digital asset ecosystem and negative publicity surrounding digital assets more broadly. In November 2022, FTX, the third largest digital asset exchange by volume at the time, halted customer withdrawals and shortly thereafter, FTX and its subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy. 20 In response to these events, the digital asset markets, including the market for bitcoin specifically, have experienced extreme price volatility and several other entities in the digital asset industry have been, and may continue to be, negatively affected, further undermining confidence in the digital assets markets and in bitcoin. These events have also negatively impacted the liquidity of the digital assets markets as certain entities affiliated with FTX engaged in significant trading activity. If the liquidity of the digital assets markets continues to be negatively impacted by these events, digital asset prices (including the price of bitcoin) may continue to experience significant volatility and confidence in the digital asset markets may be further undermined. These events are continuing to develop and it is not possible to predict at this time all of the risks that they may pose to us, our service providers or on the digital asset industry as a whole. A perceived lack of stability in the digital asset exchange market and the closure or temporary shutdown of digital asset exchanges due to business failure, hackers or malware, government-mandated regulation, or fraud, may reduce confidence in digital asset networks and result in greater volatility in cryptocurrency values. These potential consequences of a digital asset exchanges failure could adversely affect an investment in us. We may not have adequate sources of recovery if our digital assets are lost, stolen or destroyed. We rely on Coinbase to facilitate the custody of our bitcoins. If our bitcoins are lost, stolen or destroyed under circumstances rendering a party, including Coinbase, liable to us, the responsible party may not have the financial resources sufficient to satisfy our claim. For example, as to a particular event of loss, the only source of recovery for us might be limited, to the extent identifiable, to other responsible third parties (e.g., a thief or terrorist), any of which may not have the financial resources (including liability insurance coverage) to satisfy a valid claim of ours. Incorrect or fraudulent bitcoin transactions may be irreversible. Bitcoin transactions are irreversible and stolen or incorrectly transferred bitcoins may thus be irretrievable. While we exchange our bitcoins directly for U.S. dollars on Coinbase and do not presently use, or expect to use, our bitcoins for any other transactions other than limited payroll related payments, any incorrectly executed or fraudulent bitcoin transactions may still adversely affect our investments and assets. We may face risks of Internet disruptions, which could have an adverse effect on not only the price of bitcoin but our ability to mine bitcoin. A disruption of the Internet may adversely affect the mining and use of cryptocurrencies, including bitcoin. Generally, cryptocurrencies and our business of mining bitcoin is dependent upon the Internet. A significant disruption in Internet connectivity could disrupt bitcoins network operations until the disruption is resolved and have an adverse effect on the price of bitcoin and our ability to mine bitcoin. The limited rights of legal recourse available to us expose us and our investors to the risk of loss of our bitcoins for which no person is liable. At this time, there is no specifically enumerated U.S. or foreign governmental, regulatory, investigative or prosecutorial authority or mechanism through which to bring an action or complaint regarding missing or stolen cryptocurrency; though law enforcement agencies like the FBI have recovered stolen bitcoin, that recovery has required significant amounts of time. To the extent that we are unable to recover our losses from such action, error or theft, such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations of and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. The sale of our bitcoins to pay for expenses at a time of low bitcoin prices could adversely affect an investment in us. We sell our bitcoins to pay for operating expenses and growth on an as-needed basis. Consequently, we may sell our bitcoins at a time when bitcoin prices are low, which could adversely affect an investment in us. At this time, we do not engage in contractual or financial hedging activities related to our bitcoin holdings to mitigate potential decreases in the price of bitcoin. See the above risk factor entitled, The value of bitcoin has historically been subject to wide 21 swings. Because we do not currently hedge our investment in bitcoin and do not intend to for the foreseeable future, we are directly exposed to bitcoins price volatility and surrounding risks." Demand for bitcoin is driven, in part, by its status as a prominent and secure cryptocurrency. It is possible that a cryptocurrency other than bitcoin could have features that make it more desirable to a material portion of the digital asset user base, resulting in a reduction in demand for bitcoins. Bitcoin holds a first-to-market advantage over other cryptocurrencies. This first-to-market advantage is driven in large part by having the largest user base and, more importantly, the largest combined mining power in use. Nonetheless, another form of cryptocurrency could become materially popular due to either a perceived or exposed shortcoming of the bitcoin network or a perceived advantage of another form of digital currency. If another form of digital currency obtains significant market share, this could reduce the interest in, and value of, bitcoin and the profitability of our bitcoin operations. Our mining costs may be in excess of our mining revenues, which could seriously harm our business and adversely impact an investment in us. Mining operations are costly and our expenses may increase in the future. Increases in mining expenses may not be offset by corresponding increases in revenue (i.e. the value of bitcoin mined). Our expenses may become greater than we anticipate, and our investments to make our business more cost-efficient may not succeed. Further, even if our expenses remain the same or decline, our revenues may not exceed our expenses to the extent the price of bitcoin continues to decrease without a corresponding decrease in bitcoin network difficulty. Increases in our costs without corresponding increases in our revenue would adversely affect our profitability and could seriously harm our business and an investment in us. The properties included in our mining operation may experience damages, including damages that may not be covered by insurance. Our current mining locations and any future sites we establish will be subject to a variety of risks relating to physical condition and operation, including but not limited to: construction or repair defects or other structural or building damage; any noncompliance with or liabilities under applicable environmental, health or safety regulations or requirements or building permit requirements; any damage resulting from natural disasters and climate change, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, floods and windstorms; and claims by employees and others for injuries sustained at our properties. Although our mining sites are equipped with standard security measures normally associated with a traditional data center, and insured by tier one insurance providers, our mining sites could still be rendered inoperable, temporarily or permanently, as a result of a fire or other natural disaster or by a terrorist or other events outside of our control. The measures we take to prevent and insure against these risks may not be sufficient or effective. We are subject to risks associated with our need for significant electrical power. The operation of a bitcoin mining facility requires significant amounts of electrical power. Any mining site we currently operate or establish in the future can only be successful if we can continue to obtain sufficient electrical power for that site on a cost-effective basis. We currently have four fully-owned campuses and operate additional miners under two active hosting agreements, each of which have unique power agreements. Geopolitical events including the war in Ukraine and inflationary impacts have caused power prices to increase worldwide; if power prices continue to increase while bitcoin prices decrease, it would impact our ability to profitability mine bitcoin. We may curtail the energy used by our mining operations in times of heightened energy prices or in the case of a grid-wide electricity shortage either voluntarily or by agreement with utility providers. We may also encounter other 22 situations where utilities or government entities restrict or prohibit the provision of electricity to mining operations. In these cases, our ability to produce bitcoin may be negatively affected. Because we also expect to expand to additional sites, there may be significant competition for suitable locations with access to affordable power. Additionally, our facilities could be adversely affected by a power outage. Although we maintain limited backup power at certain sites, it would not be feasible to run miners on back-up power generators in the event of a government restriction on electricity or a power outage. To the extent we are unable to receive adequate power supply and are forced to reduce or cease our operations due to the availability or cost of electrical power, our business would be adversely affected. Further, one of our key strategies is to use sustainable and environmentally friendly sources of energy, including nuclear energy sources. To the extent we are unable to obtain sustainable sources of energy on a cost-effective basis and execute on this strategy, our business could be adversely affected. Increased scrutiny and changing expectations from stakeholders with respect to our ESG practices and the impacts of climate change may result in additional costs or risks. Companies across many industries are facing increasing scrutiny related to their environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices. Investor advocacy groups, certain institutional investors, investment funds and other influential investors are also increasingly focused on ESG practices and in recent years have placed increasing importance on the non-financial impacts of their investments. In May 2021, the SEC proposed rule changes that would require public companies to include certain climate-related disclosures in their periodic reports, including information about climate-related risks that are reasonably likely to have a material impact on their business, results of operations, or financial condition, and certain climate-related financial statement metrics in a note to their audited financial statements. The SEC noted that such rule changes were proposed in response to investor demands for consistent and comparable data on climate change. Furthermore, increased public awareness and concern regarding environmental risks, including global climate change, may result in increased public scrutiny of our business and our industry, and our management team may divert significant time and energy away from our operations and towards responding to such scrutiny and reassuring our employees. In addition, the physical risks of climate change may impact the availability and cost of materials and natural resources, sources and supply of energy, demand for bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, and could increase our insurance and other operating costs, including, potentially, to repair damage incurred as a result of extreme weather events or to renovate or retrofit facilities to better withstand extreme weather events. If environmental laws or regulations or industry standards are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements on our operations, or if our operations are disrupted due to physical impacts of climate change, our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position could be negatively impacted. Our operations and profitability may be adversely affected by competition from other methods of investing in cryptocurrencies. We compete with other users and/or companies that are mining cryptocurrencies and other potential financial vehicles, including securities backed by or linked to cryptocurrencies. Market and financial conditions, and other conditions beyond our control, may make it more attractive to invest in other financial vehicles, or to invest in cryptocurrencies directly, which could limit the market for our shares and reduce their liquidity. The emergence of other financial vehicles and exchange-traded funds have increased scrutiny on cryptocurrencies, and such scrutiny could be applicable to us and impact our ability to successfully establish or maintain a public market for our securities. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account, and harm investors. From time to time, as market conditions change, large holders of bitcoin may sell large amounts all at once into the market, thereby constraining the growth of the price of bitcoin. 23 There are very large holders of bitcoin, including other miners, that may choose or be forced to sell large quantities of bitcoin all at once or over a short period of time. Such an increase in selling volume could create downward pressure on the market price of bitcoin. Potential that, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by a custodian, bitcoin held in custody could be determined to be property of a bankruptcy estate and we could be considered a general unsecured creditor thereof. The treatment of bitcoins held by custodians that file for bankruptcy protection is uncharted territory in U.S. Bankruptcy law. We cannot say with certainty whether bitcoin held in custody by a bankrupt custodian would be treated as property of a bankruptcy estate and, accordingly, whether the owner of that bitcoin would be treated as a general unsecured creditor. There are risks related to technological obsolescence, the vulnerability of the global supply chain for cryptocurrency hardware disruption, and difficulty in obtaining new hardware which may have a negative effect on our business. As our mining facility operates, our miners experience ordinary wear and tear, and may also face more significant malfunctions caused by a number of extraneous factors beyond our control. The degradation of our miners will require us to, over time, to repair or replace miners which are no longer functional. Additionally, as technology evolves, we may be required to acquire newer models of miners to remain competitive in the market. This upgrading process requires substantial capital investment, and we may face challenges in doing so on a timely and cost-effective basis. Further, the global supply of miners is unpredictable and presently heavily dependent on manufacturers headquartered in China, with manufacturing in Asia, which was severely affected by the emergence of the COVID-19 coronavirus global pandemic. We currently utilize several types of ASIC miners as part of our mining operation, including Bitmain Antminers, Canaan Avalon miners and MicroBT WhatsMiners, all of which are produced in China, Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand. Geopolitical matters, including the U.S. relationship with China, may impact our ability to import ASIC miners. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate replacement parts for our existing miners or obtain additional miners from manufacturers on a timely basis. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account, and harm investors. Since there has been limited precedent set for financial accounting of digital assets, including bitcoin, it is unclear how we will be required to account for transactions involving digital assets. Because there has been limited precedent set for the financial accounting of cryptocurrencies and related revenue recognition and no official guidance has yet been provided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC, it is unclear how companies may in the future be required to account for cryptocurrency transactions and assets and related revenue recognition. A change in regulatory or financial accounting standards or interpretation by the SEC could result in changes in our accounting treatment and the necessity to restate our financial statements. Such a restatement could adversely impact the accounting for the bitcoins we hold and bitcoin transactions and, more generally, negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to grow our hashrate, we may be unable to compete, and our results of operations could suffer. Generally, a bitcoin miners chance of solving a block on the bitcoin blockchain and earning a Bitcoin reward is a function of the miners hashrate (i.e., the amount of computing power devoted to supporting the Bitcoin blockchain), relative to the global network hashrate. As demand for bitcoin has increased, the global network hashrate has increased, and to the extent more adoption of bitcoin occurs, we would expect the demand for bitcoin would increase, drawing more mining companies into the industry and further increasing the global network hashrate. As new and more powerful miners are deployed, the global network hashrate will continue to increase, meaning a miners percentage of the total daily rewards will decline unless it deploys additional hashrate at pace with the growth of global hashrate. Accordingly, to compete in this highly competitive industry, we believe we will need to continue to acquire new miners, both to replace those lost to ordinary wear-and-tear and other damage, and to increase our hashrate to keep up with a growing global network hashrate. 24 We plan to grow our hashrate, in part, by acquiring newer, more effective, and energy-efficient miners. These new miners are highly specialized servers that are very difficult to produce at scale. As a result, there are limited producers capable of producing large numbers of sufficiently effective miners. The cost of these miners is directly correlated to bitcoin prices and the profitability of bitcoin mining. Demand for new miners increased in response to increased bitcoin prices in 2021 followed by a decreased in demand due to falling bitcoin prices in 2022. We observed the price of these new miners followed changes in demand, resulting in elevated machine prices when bitcoin mining economics are high and significantly lower prices when these economics are strained. As a result, positive bitcoin economics may negatively impact our future equipment costs and the increase the competition to secure mining equipment. If we cant acquire sufficient numbers of new miners or access sufficient capital to fund our acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect investments in our securities. Our business has been, and in the future may be, subject to risks arising from pandemic, epidemic, or an outbreak of diseases, such as the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak to be a pandemic. Since then, COVID-19 spread across the globe and impacted worldwide economic activity, including through quarantines, travel bans and restrictions, shelter-in-place orders, shutdowns of businesses, reductions in business activity, supply chain interruptions and overall economic and financial market instability. These measures impacted, and may further impact, our workforce and operations, as well as the operations of our customers, our partners and our vendors and suppliers. Our critical business operations, including our headquarters, and many of our key suppliers, are located in regions which have been and continue to be impacted by COVID-19. Our suppliers worldwide have also been affected by COVID-19 and may continue to experience material impacts well beyond the end of the pandemic. Specifically, the manufacture of components of our products, the final assembly of our products, and other critical operations are concentrated in China and other geographic locations that have been impacted by COVID-19 and in which local governments continue to take measures to try to contain the pandemic. There is considerable uncertainty regarding the impact of such measures and potential future measures, including restrictions on manufacturing facilities, on our support operations or workforce, or on our customers, partners, vendors and suppliers. Such measures, as well as restrictions on or disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability or increased cost of air transport, port closures, and increased border controls or closures, could limit our capacity to meet customer demand and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic and other factors have adversely affected our supply chain, consistent with its effect across many industries, including creating shipping and logistics challenges and placing significant limits on component supplies. They have also significantly increased the costs of shipping miners, related components and infrastructure. We expect these impacts, including potentially delayed product availability, to continue for as long as the global supply chain is experiencing these challenges. In addition, while the extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our business in particular are difficult to assess or predict, the pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, which may reduce our ability to access capital or our customers ability to pay us for past or future purchases, which could negatively affect our working capital and liquidity. A recession or financial market correction resulting from the lack of containment and spread of COVID-19 could impact overall spending, adversely affecting demand for bitcoin, our business, and the value of our common stock. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or a similar health epidemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance, including our ability to execute our business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, will depend on future developments, including, but not limited to, the duration and continued spread of the pandemic, its severity, further related restrictions on travel, any reopening plans worldwide, the effectiveness of actions taken in the United States and other countries to contain and treat the disease, including, without limitation, the effectiveness and timing of vaccination initiatives in the United States and worldwide and the duration, timing, and severity of the impact on customer spending, including any recession resulting from the pandemic, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. An extended period of global supply chain and economic disruption as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, even after the pandemic subsides worldwide, could have a materially adverse impact on our business, results of 25 operations, access to sources of capital and financial condition, though the full extent and duration of any such impact is also uncertain. Global economic conditions, including continuing or worsening inflationary issues and associated changes in monetary policy and potential economic recession, and geopolitical events such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict, the subsequent imposition of sanctions as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. General economic and political conditions such as economic recessions, interest rates, rising inflation, commodity prices, foreign currency fluctuations, international tariffs, social, political and economic risks, hostilities or the perception that hostilities may be imminent, military conflict and acts of war, including further escalation of the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the related response, including sanctions or other restrictive actions, by the United States and/or other countries could adversely impact our business, supply chain or partners. While the price of bitcoin miners has dropped as the price of bitcoin has dropped, the U.S. inflation rate has steadily increased since 2021 and into 2022. These inflationary pressures, as well as disruptions in our supply chain, have increased the costs of most other goods, services and personnel, which have in turn caused our capital expenditures and operating costs to rise. Sustained levels of high inflation caused the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks to increase interest rates, which have raised the cost of acquiring capital and reduced economic growth, either of whichor the combination thereofcould hurt the financial and operating results of our business. In addition, the extent and duration of the situation in Ukraine, resulting sanctions and resulting future market disruptions are impossible to predict, but could be significant. The effects of such global economic conditions, including continuing or worsening inflationary issues and associated changes in monetary policy or potential economic recession, and geopolitical events could adversely affect our ability to access the capital and other financial markets, and if so, we may need to consider alternative sources of funding for some of our growth and operations and for working capital, which may increase our cost of, as well as adversely impact our access to, capital. Divestitures and discontinued operations could negatively impact our business, and retained liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our financial results. In connection with the execution of our strategy to focus entirely on bitcoin mining, we have completed several divestitures, including the divestiture of a part of our former energy business. We intend to make further dispositions in connection with our non-bitcoin mining related businesses, which we may not be able to complete on favorable terms or at all. If we do not realize the expected benefits of these divestitures or our post-completion liabilities and continuing obligations are substantial and exceed our expectations, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. As a result of such dispositions, bitcoin mining is now the sole driver of our business and revenues and is expected to continue to be the source of substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future, which has the effect of increasing our exposure to the risks described in this Annual Report. Further, in the course of our discontinued operations, we may become subject to legal actions based on a claim that our legacy energy products are or were defective in workmanship or have caused personal or other injuries. We may also be subject to lawsuits and other claims in the future if our legacy products or installed systems malfunction, including, for example, if any of our energy system offerings (such as installed racking systems, photovoltaic modules, batteries, inverters, or other products) causes injuries. Because energy systems and many of our other current and anticipated products are electricity-producing devices, it is possible that customers or their property could be injured or damaged by our products, whether due to product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. Further, since our products are used in systems that are made up of components sourced from third party manufacturers, we may be subject to product liability claims even if our products do not malfunction. Additionally, any of our products could be subject to recalls due to product malfunctions or defects. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages that could require us to make significant payments, as well as subject us to adverse publicity, damage our reputation and competitive position. We rely on third-party manufacturing warranties, warranties provided by our manufacturing partners and our general liability insurance to cover product liability claims and have not obtained separate product 26 liability insurance. Such warranties and insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all potential claims. Moreover, even if such warranties and insurance coverage are sufficient, any successful claim could significantly harm our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Governmental Regulation and Enforcement Operations If regulatory changes or interpretations of our activities require our registration as a money services business (an MSB) under the regulations promulgated by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) under the authority of the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (the BSA), or otherwise under state laws, we may incur significant compliance costs, which could be substantial or cost-prohibitive. If we become subject to these regulations, our costs in complying with them may have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations. To the extent our bitcoin mining activities cause us to be deemed an MSB under the regulations promulgated by FinCEN under the authority of the BSA, we may be required to comply with FinCEN regulations, including those that would mandate us to implement anti-money laundering programs, make certain reports to FinCEN and maintain certain records. To the extent that our cryptocurrency activities cause us to be deemed a money transmitter (an MT) or be given an equivalent designation, under state law in any state in which we operate, we may be required to seek a license or otherwise register with a state regulator and comply with state regulations that may include the implementation of anti-money laundering programs, maintenance of certain records and other operational requirements. Currently, the New York State Department of Financial Services maintains a comprehensive BitLicense framework for businesses that conduct virtual currency business activity. In July 2020, Louisiana enacted the Virtual Currency Businesses Act, becoming the second state after New York to enact a stand-alone virtual currency law. We will continue to monitor for developments in state-level legislation, guidance or regulations applicable to us. Such additional federal or state regulatory obligations in the United States or obligations that could arise under the regulatory frameworks of other countries may cause us to incur significant expenses, possibly affecting its business and financial condition in a material and adverse manner. Furthermore, we and our service providers may not be capable of complying with certain federal or state regulatory obligations applicable to MSBs and MTs or similar obligations in other countries. If we are deemed to be subject to such additional regulatory and registration or licensing requirements, we may be required to substantially alter our bitcoin mining activities and possibly cease engaging in such activities. Any such action may adversely affect our business operations and financial condition and an investment in our company. Current regulation regarding the exchange of bitcoins under the CEA by the CFTC is unclear; to the extent we become subject to regulation by the CFTC in connection with our exchange of bitcoin, we may incur additional compliance costs, which may be significant. The Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (the CEA), does not currently impose any direct obligations on us related to the mining or exchange of bitcoins. Generally, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the federal agency that administers the CEA, regards bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies as commodities. This position has been supported by decisions of federal courts. However, the CEA imposes requirements relative to certain transactions involving bitcoin and other digital assets that constitute a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery (or an option on such a contract), a swap, or a transaction involving margin, financing or leverage that does not result in actual delivery of the commodity within 28 days to persons not defined as eligible contract participants or eligible commercial entities under the CEA (e.g., retail persons). Changes in the CEA or the regulations promulgated by the CFTC thereunder, as well as interpretations thereof and official promulgations by the CFTC, may impact the classification of bitcoins and, therefore, may subject them to additional regulatory oversight by the agency. Although to date the CFTC has not enacted regulations governing non-derivative or non-financed, margined or leveraged transactions in bitcoin, it has authority to commence enforcement actions against persons who violate certain prohibitions under the CEA related to transactions in any contract of sale of any commodity, including bitcoin, in interstate commerce (e.g., manipulation and engaging in certain deceptive practices). 27 We cannot be certain as to how future regulatory developments will impact the treatment of bitcoins under the law. Any requirements imposed by the CFTC related to our mining activities or our transactions in bitcoin could cause us to incur additional extraordinary, non-recurring expenses, thereby materially and adversely impacting an investment in the Company. In addition, changes in the classification of bitcoins could subject us, as a result of our bitcoin mining operations, to additional regulatory oversight by the agency. Although to date the CFTC has not enacted regulations governing non-derivative or non-financed, margined or leveraged transactions in bitcoin, it has authority to commence enforcement actions against persons who violate certain prohibitions under the CEA related to transactions in any contract of sale of any commodity, including bitcoin, in interstate commerce (e.g., manipulation and engaging in certain deceptive practices). Moreover, if our mining activities or transactions in bitcoin were deemed by the CFTC to constitute a collective investment in derivatives for our shareholders, we may be required to register as a commodity pool operator with the CFTC through the National Futures Association. Such additional registrations may result in extraordinary, non-recurring expenses, thereby materially and adversely impacting an investment in the Company. If we determine not to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may seek to cease certain of our operations. Any such action may adversely affect an investment in the Company. While no provision of the CEA, or CFTC rules, orders or rulings (except as noted herein) appears to be currently applicable to our business, this is subject to change. If the SEC or another regulatory body considers bitcoin to be a security under U.S. securities laws, we may be required to comply with significant SEC registration and/or other requirements. In general, novel or unique assets such as bitcoin and other digital assets may be classified as securities if they meet the definition of investment contracts under U.S. law. In recent years, the offer and sale of digital assets other than bitcoin, most notably Kik Interactive Inc.s Kin tokens and Telegram Group Inc.s TON tokens, have been deemed to be investment contracts by the SEC. While we believe that bitcoin is unlikely to be considered an investment contract, and thus a security under the investment contract definition, we cannot provide any assurances that digital assets that we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account, including bitcoin, will never be classified as securities under U.S. law. This would obligate us to comply with registration and other requirements by the SEC and, therefore, cause us to incur significant, non-recurring expenses, thereby materially and adversely impacting an investment in the Company. It may be illegal now, or in the future, to mine, acquire, own, hold, sell or use bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies, participate in blockchains or utilize similar cryptocurrency assets in one or more countries, the ruling of which could adversely affect us. Although currently cryptocurrencies generally are not regulated or are lightly regulated in most countries, several countries, such as China, India and Russia, may continue taking regulatory actions in the future that could severely restrict the right to mine, acquire, own, hold, sell or use these cryptocurrency assets or to exchange for local currency. For example, in China and Russia (India is currently proposing new legislation), it is illegal to accept payment in bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies for consumer transactions and banking institutions are barred from accepting deposits of cryptocurrencies. In addition, in March 2021, the governmental authorities for the Chinese province of Inner Mongolia banned bitcoin mining in the province due to the industrys intense electrical power demands and its negative environmental impacts. If other countries, including the U.S., implement similar restrictions, such restrictions may adversely affect us. For example, in New York State, a moratorium on certain bitcoin mining operations that run on carbon-based power sources was signed into law on November 22, 2022. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account, and thus harm investors. Changing environmental regulation and public energy policy may expose our business to new risks. Our bitcoin mining operations require a substantial amount of power and can only be successful, and ultimately profitable, if the costs we incur, including for electricity, are lower than the revenue we generate from our operations. As a result, any mine we establish can only be successful if we can obtain sufficient electrical power for that mine on a cost-effective basis, and our establishment of new mines requires us to find locations where that is the 28 case. For instance, our plans and strategic initiatives for expansion are based, in part, on our understanding of current environmental and energy regulations, policies, and initiatives enacted by federal, New York State and Georgia State regulators. If new regulations are imposed, or if existing regulations are modified, the assumptions we made underlying our plans and strategic initiatives may be inaccurate, and we may incur additional costs to adapt our planned business, if we are able to adapt at all, to such regulations. In addition, there continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty for our business because the bitcoin mining industry, with its high energy demand, may become a target for future environmental and energy regulation. New legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us and our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting, and other costs to comply with such regulations. Further, any future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. For example, the recently passed legislation in the state of New York imposing a moratorium on certain bitcoin mining operations that run carbon-based power. Given the political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be addressed, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Future developments regarding the treatment of digital assets for U.S. federal income and applicable state, local and non-U.S. tax purposes could adversely impact our business. Due to the new and evolving nature of digital assets and the absence of comprehensive legal guidance with respect to digital assets and related transactions, many significant aspects of the U.S. federal income and applicable state, local and non-U.S. tax treatment of transactions involving digital assets, such as the purchase and sale of bitcoin and the receipt of staking rewards and other digital asset incentives and rewards products, are uncertain, and it is unclear what guidance may be issued in the future with respect to the tax treatment of digital assets and related transactions. Current IRS guidance indicates that for U.S. federal income tax purposes digital assets such as bitcoins should be treated and taxed as property, and that transactions involving the payment of bitcoins for goods and services should be treated in effect as barter transactions. The IRS has also released guidance to the effect that, under certain circumstances, hard forks of digital currencies are taxable events giving rise to taxable income and guidance with respect to the determination of the tax basis of digital currency. However, current IRS guidance does not address other significant aspects of the U.S. federal income tax treatment of digital assets and related transactions. Moreover, although current IRS guidance addresses the treatment of certain forks, there continues to be uncertainty with respect to the timing and amount of income inclusions for various crypto asset transactions, including, but not limited to, staking rewards and other crypto asset incentives and rewards products. While current IRS guidance creates a potential tax reporting requirement for any circumstance where the ownership of a bitcoin passes from one person to another, it preserves the right to apply capital gains treatment to those transactions, which is generally favorable for investors in bitcoin. There can be no assurance that the IRS will not alter its existing position with respect to digital assets in the future or that other state, local and non-U.S. taxing authorities or courts will follow the approach of the IRS with respect to the treatment of digital assets such as bitcoins for income tax and sales tax purposes. Any such alteration of existing guidance or issuance of new or different guidance may have negative consequences including the imposition of a greater tax burden on investors in bitcoin or imposing a greater cost on the acquisition and disposition of bitcoin, generally; in either case potentially having a negative effect on the trading price of bitcoin or otherwise negatively impacting our business. In addition, future technological and operational developments that may arise with respect to digital currencies may increase the uncertainty with respect to the treatment of digital currencies for U.S. federal income and applicable state, local and non-U.S. tax purposes. 29 The open-source structure of the bitcoin network protocol means that the contributors to the protocol are generally not directly compensated for their contributions in maintaining and developing the protocol. A failure to properly monitor and upgrade the protocol could damage the bitcoin network and an investment in us. As an open-source project, bitcoin does not generate revenues for its contributors, and contributors are generally not compensated for maintaining and updating the bitcoin network protocol. The lack of guaranteed financial incentives for contributors to maintain or develop the bitcoin network and the lack of guaranteed resources to adequately address emerging issues with the bitcoin network may reduce incentives to address the issues adequately or in a timely manner. To the extent that contributors may fail to adequately update and maintain the bitcoin network protocol, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. Banks and financial institutions may not provide banking services, or may cut off services, to businesses that engage in cryptocurrency-related activities. A number of companies that engage in bitcoin and/or other cryptocurrency-related activities have been unable to find banks or financial institutions that are willing to provide them with bank accounts and other services. Similarly, a number of companies and individuals or businesses associated with cryptocurrencies may have had and may continue to have their existing bank accounts closed or services discontinued with financial institutions. To the extent that such events may happen to us, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of any bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies we mine or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. Our interactions with the bitcoin network may expose us to SDN or blocked persons or cause us to violate provisions of law that did not contemplate distributed ledger technology. The Office of Financial Assets Control (OFAC) of the US Department of Treasury requires us to comply with its sanction program and not conduct business with persons named on its specially designated nationals (SDN) list. However, because of the pseudonymous nature of blockchain transactions, we may inadvertently and without our knowledge engage in transactions with persons named on OFACs SDN list. We also may not be adequately capable of determining the ultimate identity of the persons with whom we transact. Risks Related to Our Securities The price of our common stock may be volatile and could fluctuate widely, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; government regulation of our products and services; the establishment of partnerships with other technology companies; intellectual property disputes; additions or departures of key personnel; sales of our common stock; our ability to integrate operations, technology, products and services; our ability to execute our business plan; operating results below expectations; loss of any strategic relationship; industry developments; 30 economic and other external factors; and period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Specifically, the trading price of our common stock has already been correlated, and, in the future, as we continue to expand our bitcoin mining business, may be increasingly correlated, to the trading prices of bitcoin. Bitcoin companies' stock have shown volatility relative to bitcoin, with many such stocks outperforming bitcoin in 2020 and 2021, but underperforming relative to bitcoin in 2022. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency market prices, which have historically been volatile and are impacted by a variety of factors (including those discussed herein), are determined primarily using data from various exchanges, over-the-counter markets and derivative platforms. As noted elsewhere herein, while we had no direct exposure to FTX, the failure or insolvency of large exchanges like FTX may cause the price of bitcoin to fall and decrease confidence in the ecosystem, which could negatively impact our stock price. Furthermore, such prices may be subject to factors such as those that impact commodities, more so than business activities, which could be subjected to additional influence from fraudulent or illegitimate actors, real or perceived scarcity, and political, economic, regulatory or other conditions. Pricing may be the result of, and may continue to result in, speculation regarding future appreciation in the value of bitcoin, or our share price, inflating and making their market prices more. For example, the closing sales price of our common stock on January 3, 2022 was $9.59 and the closing price of bitcoin was $46,458 and, as of September 30, 2022, our closing sales price of our common stock was $3.18, and the closing price of Bitcoin was $19,431. In addition, the stock markets in general have often experienced volatility, including, most recently, in the wake of COVID-19, that has sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations have caused, and may continue to cause, the trading price of our common stock to decline. A continuation or worsening of the levels of market disruption and volatility seen in the recent past could have an adverse effect on our ability to access capital, on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and prospects, and on the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type may be expensive to defend and may divert our managements attention and resources from the operation of our business. We have the right to designate and issue additional shares of preferred stock. If we were to designate and/or issue additional preferred stock, it is likely to have rights, preferences and privileges that may adversely affect the common stock. We are authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of blank-check Preferred Stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as may be determined from time to time by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue Preferred Stock in one or more series, and to fix for any series the dividend rights, dissolution or liquidation preferences, redemption prices, conversion rights, voting rights, and other rights, preferences and privileges for the Preferred Stock. Currently, 2,000,000 shares are designated as Series A Preferred Stock, of which 1,750,000 shares are outstanding. The holders of our Series A Preferred Stock entitled to have the Company redeem each share of Series A Preferred Stock for three shares of our common stock only if a change of control event (as defined in the certificate of designation) occurs, and they are entitled to vote together with the holders of the Companys common stock on all matters submitted to stockholders at a rate of forty-five (45) votes for each share of Series A Preferred Stock held. The issuance of shares of Preferred Stock, depending on the rights, preferences and privileges attributable to the Preferred Stock, could reduce the voting rights and powers of the common stock and the portion of our assets allocated for distribution to common stockholders in a liquidation event, and could also result in dilution in the book value per share of the common stock. The preferred stock could also be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for raising additional capital or discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, to the detriment of the investors in the common stock offered hereby. We cannot assure that we will not, under certain circumstances, issue shares of our Preferred Stock. 31 We are currently the subject of a shareholder class action, and may be subject to shareholder litigation in the future; our costs of defending such litigation, arbitration and other proceedings and any adverse outcome of such litigation, arbitration or other proceeding may have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations. We are currently, and may from time to time in the future be, involved in and subject to material litigation and other legal proceedings. In particular, on January 20, 2021, a purported shareholder of our company, individually and on behalf of all others similarly situated (together, the Class), filed a putative class action complaint (the Class Complaint) in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against us and certain members of our executive management team. The Class Complaint alleges that, between December 31, 2020 and January 14, 2021, we and certain members of our executive management team failed to disclose certain material information to investors and that, as a result of the foregoing, our positive statements about our business, operations, and prospects were materially misleading and/or lacked a reasonable basis. The claims made in the Class Complaint appear to be derived from a short seller report that was published about us. We have financed our strategic growth primarily by issuing new shares of our common stock in public offerings, which dilutes the ownership interests of our current stockholders, and which may adversely affect the market price of our securities. We have raised capital to finance our strategic growth of our business through public offerings of our common stock, including through our at-the-market offering program, and we expect to need to raise additional capital through similar public offerings to finance the completion of current and future expansion initiatives. Utilizing those sources may be more challenging in the current financial market conditions, in particular where trading volume is diminished. We may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could impair our growth and adversely impact our existing operations. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the per share value of our common stock could decline. Furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of any debt we issue would likely have priority over the holders of shares of our common stock in terms of order of payment preference. We may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness or take other actions including terms that require us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios that could otherwise not be in the interests of our stockholders. We have not paid dividends on shares of our common stock in the past and have no immediate plans to pay do so in the future. We have not paid, and do not plan to pay, any cash dividends with respect to our common stock in the immediate future. We plan to reinvest all of our earnings, to the extent we have earnings, in order to market our products and to cover operating costs and to otherwise become and remain competitive. We cannot assure stockholders that we would, at any time, generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock as a dividend. Therefore, stockholders should not expect to receive cash dividends on our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us now or in the future issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. In April 2022, we entered into a Master Equipment Financing Agreement with Trinity Capital Inc., as the lender (the Financing Agreement). The Financing Agreement provides for up to $35 million of borrowings to finance our acquisition of blockchain computing equipment. We received a loan of $20 million at close, with the remaining $15 32 million fundable upon our request no later than December 31, 2022, As of the date of this filing $16,058,383 in principal is outstanding and due to Trinity Capital Inc. Our indebtedness could: increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; result in greater interest rate risk and volatility; limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our Financing Agreement under certain circumstances, or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. We incur significant costs and demands upon management and accounting and finance resources as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies; any failure to establish and maintain adequate internal controls and/or disclosure controls or to recruit, train and retain necessary accounting and finance personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to accurately and timely prepare our financial statements and otherwise make timely and accurate public disclosure. As a public company, we incur significant administrative, legal, accounting and other burdens and expenses beyond those of a private company, including public company reporting obligations and Nasdaq listing requirements. In particular, we have needed, and continue to need, to enhance and supplement our internal accounting resources with additional accounting and finance personnel with the requisite technical and public company experience and expertise to enable us to satisfy such reporting obligations. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls (including internal control over financial reporting) could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis, or to detect and prevent fraud and could expose us to regulatory enforcement action and shareholder claims. Furthermore, as a non-accelerated filer under the Exchange Act, we are not required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, but we are required to document and test our internal control procedures and prepare annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Therefore, our internal controls over financial reporting will not receive the level of review provided by the process relating to the auditor attestation included in annual reports of issuers that are subject to the auditor attestation requirements, which may adversely impact market perception of our business and our common shares. Our assessments must include disclosure of identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could affect the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting. Testing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting involves significant costs and could divert managements attention from other matters that are important to our business. Additionally, we may not be successful in remediating any deficiencies that may be identified. If we are unable to remediate any such deficiencies or otherwise fail to establish and maintain adequate accounting systems and internal control over financial reporting, or we are unable to continue to recruit, train and retain necessary accounting and finance personnel, we may not be able to accurately and timely prepare our financial statements and otherwise satisfy our public reporting obligations. During our fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, our management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2022 and concluded that, as of September 30, 2022, our internal controls were effective. Any inaccuracies in our financial statements or other public disclosures (in particular, if resulting in the need to restate previously filed financial statements), or delays in our making required SEC filings, whether as a result of our internal controls over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the confidence in our financial reporting, our credibility in the marketplace and the trading price of our common shares. 33 We qualify as a smaller reporting company, and, under the smaller reporting company rules, we are subject to scaled disclosure requirements that may make it more challenging for investors to analyze our results of operations and financial prospects. Currently, we qualify as a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. We have elected to provide disclosure under the smaller reporting company rules and, therefore, are subject to decreased disclosure obligations in our filings with the SEC, including being required to provide only two years of audited financial statements in our annual reports. Consequently, it may be more challenging for investors to analyze our results of operations and financial prospects. Provisions in the Nevada Revised Statutes and our Bylaws could make it very difficult for an investor to bring any legal actions against our directors or officers for violations of their fiduciary duties or could require us to pay any amounts incurred by our directors or officers in any such actions. Members of our Board of Directors and our officers will have no liability for breaches of their fiduciary duty of care as a director or officer, except in limited circumstances, pursuant to provisions in the Nevada Revised Statutes and our Bylaws as authorized by the Nevada Revised Statutes. Specifically, Section 78.138 of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that a director or officer is not individually liable to the company or its shareholders or creditors for any damages as a result of any act or failure to act in his or her capacity as a director or officer unless it is proven that (1) the directors or officers act or failure to act constituted a breach of his or her fiduciary duties as a director or officer and (2) his or her breach of those duties involved intentional misconduct, fraud or a knowing violation of law. This provision is intended to afford directors and officers protection against and to limit their potential liability for monetary damages resulting from suits alleging a breach of the duty of care by a director or officer. Accordingly, stockholders may be unable to prevail in a legal action against our directors or officers even if they have breached their fiduciary duty of care. In addition, our Bylaws allow us to indemnify our directors and officers from and against any and all costs, charges and expenses resulting from their acting in such capacities with us. This means that if one were able to enforce an action against our directors or officers, in all likelihood, we would be required to pay any expenses they incurred in defending the lawsuit and any judgment or settlement they otherwise would be required to pay. Accordingly, our indemnification obligations could divert needed financial resources and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties On October 8, 2022, the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary, CSRE Properties Sandersville, LLC, closed on the acquisition of a lease for real property and the purchase of tangible property located at 2015 George J. Lyons, Sandersville, Georgia 31082. The property is located in Washington County and consists of 41 existing modular data centers. The Company intends to utilize the property to conduct its bitcoin mining activities. On August 17, 2022, the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary, CSRE Properties Washington, LLC, closed on the purchase of real property located at 197 Dixie Wood Road, Washington, Georgia, 30673 (the "Washington Property"). The total purchase price was $15,000,000 and the seller conveyed fee simple title by limited warranty deed. The property is located in Wilkes County, Georgia and contains approximately 27 acres. The Company intends to utilize the property to conduct its bitcoin mining activities. On August 6, 2021, the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary CSRE Properties Norcross, LLC, closed on the purchase of real property located at 5295 Brook Hollow Parkway, Norcross, Georgia, 30071 (the Norcross Property). The total purchase price was $6,550,000 and the seller conveyed fee simple title by limited warranty deed. The Norcross Property consists of an office building of approximately 86,000 square feet on approximately 7 acres of land. The Norcross Property is utilized by CleanBlok to conduct bitcoin mining activities. 34 On May 20, 2021, the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary ATL, closed on the purchase of real property located at 2380 Godby Road, College Park, Georgia, 30349 (the Godby Road Property), which it had been leasing prior to the purchase. The total purchase price was $4,711,799 and the seller conveyed fee simple title by limited warranty deed. The Godby Road Property consists of an office/warehouse building of approximately 41,387 square feet on approximately 6 acres of land. The Godby Road Property is utilized by ATL and CleanBlok to conduct bitcoin mining activities. On June 15, 2021, the Company entered into a lease for warehouse and office space at 2042 Corte Del Nogal, Suite C, Carlsbad, California, 92011. The 5-year lease is for an approximately 12,704 square foot industrial unit and part of a larger 47,744 square foot multi-tenant industrial flex building and requires monthly base rent payments of $11,307. The leased property was utilized by our energy business, and we intend to identify a suitable sublessor once we are no longer utilizing the space. On August 26, 2021, the Company entered into a lease for office space at 2370 Corporate Circle, Suite 160, Henderson, Nevada, 89074. The 65-month lease is for 4,552 rentable square feet an initial base rent of $10,925 and increases 3% each year. The Corporate Circle space is utilized as the CleanSpark corporate and executive headquarters. We also have an office located at 1185 S. 1800 W, Suite 3, Woods Cross Utah 84087. We are currently on a year-to-year lease agreement that calls for us to make payments of $2,300 per month. This property is utilized by corporate employees. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of its business. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to litigation, claims, investigations and audits arising from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see footnote 15 pertaining to commitments and contingencies included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 35 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock, par value $0.001 per share, is listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the ticker symbol CLSK. Holders of Our Common Stock As of December 14, 2022, we had 177 registered holders of record of our common stock. The holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and no right to convert their common stock into any other securities. There are no redemption or sinking fund provisions applicable to our common stock. Dividends There are no restrictions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws or agreements to which are currently party that prevent us from declaring dividends. The Nevada Revised Statutes, however, do prohibit us from declaring dividends where after giving effect to the distribution of the dividend: 1. we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business, or; 2. our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed to satisfy the rights of shareholders who have preferential rights superior to those receiving the distribution. We have never declared any dividends on shares of our common stock, and we do not plan to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities; Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities In the quarter ended December 2021, we issued an aggregate of 8,404 unregistered shares of our common stock to the Sellers of GridFabric in accordance with the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement entered into on August 31, 2020, based upon the achievement of certain milestones. The shares had a deemed aggregate value of $150,000. The shares of common stock were issued in a transaction not involving a public offering in reliance upon an exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act and/or Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated thereunder. During the quarter ended September 30, 2022, there were no other unregistered sales of our securities that were not reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K or our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Repurchases The Company has not made any repurchases of shares or other units of any class of the Companys equity securities during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report. Item 6. [Reserved] 36 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for the years ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our discussion includes forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. See "Forward-Looking Statements." Business Overview We are a sustainable bitcoin mining operator that owns and operates facilities as well as holds contracts with co-location and hosting operators. A bitcoin mining company uses specialized computers to verify transactions on the bitcoin blockchain. Without mining, there would be no bitcoin. Prior to June 2022, we also operated in a specialized energy industry that provided advanced energy technology solutions to commercial and residential customers. Effective June 30, 2022, the Company deemed its energy operations to be discontinued operations due to its strategic decision to strictly focus on its bitcoin mining operations and divest of its energy assets. Accordingly, the Company now solely operates in one business segment. The energy segment has now been classified as held-for-sale and will be discussed in this management discussion & analysis within the "Results of Discontinued Operations" section. On November 18, 2022, we disposed of the majority of our intellectual property and software related to the energy segment. We are currently working to sell the remaining assets and inventory of the energy segment, but currently plan to maintain ownership of the patents related to the gasifier technology. Results of Operations for the Year Ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 Bitcoin Mining Operations Bitcoin mining revenue We earned $130,999,686 in revenues during the year ended September 30, 2022, which was an increase of $92,153,053, or 237%, as compared with $38,846,633 in revenues for the year ended September 30, 2021 primarily due to increase in revenues from our bitcoin mining operations. Bitcoin mining revenues are determined by two main drivers; quantity of bitcoin mined and the price of bitcoin on the date the bitcoin is mined. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, we mined 3,752 bitcoin with an average bitcoin price of $34,916 as compared to 899 bitcoin with an average bitcoin price of $43,232 during the year ended September 30, 2021. The increase in the quantity of bitcoin mined is primarily based on the increased number of miners in operation which increased to approximately 42,000 as of September 30, 2022. The increase in miners in operation increases our hashrate, which is our total computational power, and which when understood in the context of global hashrate, determines how much bitcoin we are able to mine. Other services revenues Other services revenues pertain to our data center operations for which we earned $524,759 in revenue from our data center operation for the year ended September 30, 2022, which is an increase of $84,287, or 19% as compared to $440,472 for the year ended September 30, 2021. This increase was due to a full year of data center operations during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, whereas the prior fiscal year saw data center operations begin in December 2020 as the result of the ATL acquisition. Cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense) Our cost of revenues were $41,233,650 for the year ended September 30, 2022, an increase of $35,970,621, or 683%, as compared with cost of revenues of $5,263,029 for the year ended September 30, 2021. These costs were primarily related to energy costs to operate the mining equipment within our owned facilities, which was $13,554,648 for the 37 year ended September 30, 2022, an increase of $10,610,995 as compared to $2,943,653 for the year ended September 30, 2021. We also incurred hosting fees of $22,707,539 for the year ended September 30, 2022, an increase of $20,761,197 as compared to $1,946,342 for the year ended September 30, 2021, which was the result of our co-location agreement with Coinmint. The increases in both utilities and hosting fees were due to the increases in the volume of mining equipment installed in both our owned and co-locations as well as a general increase in the cost of each MW utilized. Professional fees Professional fees, which consists primarily of legal, accounting and consulting fees, were $6,469,064 for the year ended September 30, 2022, a slight decrease of $68,998, or 1%, from $6,538,062 for the year ended September 30, 2021. Legal expenses were $2,713,726 for the year ended September 30, 2022, as compared to $4,496,482 in the prior year. Other professional fees, namely accounting, audit and consulting, were $3,755,338 for the year ended September 30, 2022 as compared to $2,041,580 for the year ended September 30, 2021 an increase of $1,713,758. This increase was primarily attributable to additional activity in litigation and transactional costs. Payroll expenses Payroll expenses increased to $40,920,163 for the year ended September 30, 2022 from $21,181,905 for the same period ended September 30, 2021. Our payroll expenses include all compensation related expenses for our employees and mainly includes salaries, wages, payroll related taxes and benefits and non-cash stock-based compensation. Payroll expenses were $9,492,676 the year ended September 30, 2022, representing a decrease of 29% from $13,450,299 in the prior year ended September 30, 2021. This decrease was primarily due to the Companys exit from the energy business, some costs of which were classified as discontinued operations. We grant stock-based awards to certain employees as a significant portion of our payroll related costs. Stock-based compensation, which is a non-cash expense, was $31,464,994 for the year ended September 30, 2022, an increase of $22,918,282, or 268%, from $8,546,712 the prior year ended September 30, 2021. General and administrative expenses General and administrative fees increased to $10,422,716 for the year ended September 30, 2022 from $5,716,465 for the same period ended September 30, 2021, representing an increase of $4,706,251. This increase was primarily attributable to increases in corporate overhead including, but not limited to, insurance premiums, travel expenses and rent expenses. Other impairment expense (related to bitcoin) Impairment expense in the amount of $12,210,269 was recognized for the year ended September 30, 2022 an increase of $5,602,193 as compared to $6,608,076 for the year ended September 30, 2021. The impairment expense consists of bitcoin impairments due to the general decrease in bitcoin prices during the year. Decreases in bitcoin prices for periods subsequent to the mining date are recorded as impairment expense. ASC Topic 350 - Goodwill and Other requires subsequent increases in bitcoin prices are not allowed to be recorded (unrealized gains) unless the bitcoin is sold, at which point the gain is recognized. Realized gain on sale of bitcoin Realized gain on sale of bitcoin decreased to $2,567,101 for the year ended September 30, 2022 from a realized gain of $3,104,378 for the year ended September 30, 2021 due to the decrease in bitcoin prices during the period. Depreciation and amortization 38 Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $49,044,877 for the year ended September 30, 2022, from $8,982,123 for the same period ended September 30, 2021, an increase of $40,062,754. Depreciation expense increased by $39,676,525, or 536%, during the year ended September 30, 2022, to $47,081,550 from $7,405,025 due to increase in mining related equipment being placed in service during the comparative period. Amortization expense for the year ended September 30, 2022 was $1,963,328, a decrease of $386,230, or 24%, from $1,577,098 for the prior year ended September 30, 2021 Other Income (Expenses) Other expense was $2,224,472 for the year ended September 30, 2022, compared with other income of $3,669,015 for the year ended September 30, 2021, which is a variance of $5,893,487. Other expense for the year ended September 30, 2022 consisted primarily of an unrealized loss on derivative security of $1,949,770 as compared to gain for the same prior year period of $2,790,387. This change between the periods is the result of a change in fair value of the underlying instrument. Interest expense in the current fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 also increased by $932,099 to $1,077,827 from $145,728 in the prior year comparable period. This increase was due to the Company increasing the amount of long-term debt during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 Net Loss from Continuing Operations Net loss from continuing operations for the year ended September 30, 2022 was $40,089,393 as compared to net loss of $8,229,162 for the year ended September 30, 2021. Results of Discontinued Operations Revenues from our former energy segment, which is now classified as discontinued operations remained fairly consistent for fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 from fiscal 2021, $9,667,290 and $10,151,010 respectively. The total costs and expenses for the year ended September 30, 2022 increased to $26,900,776 from $23,725,506 for the year ended September 30, 2021 primarily due to impairment expenses related to the energy business and severance related payroll expenses. As a result, the net loss from discontinued operations for the year ended September 30, 2022 increased to $17,236,961 from $13,582,848 in the prior year ended September 30, 2021. The Company expects that most costs related to discontinued operations have been incurred as of the period ended September 30, 2022 and future period costs will significantly decline in subsequent periods. Net Loss Net loss for the year ended September 30, 2022 was $57,326,354, in increase of $35,514,344 compared to net loss of $21,812,010 for the year ended September 30, 2021. Non-GAAP Measure We present adjusted EBITDA, which is not a measurement of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of equity instruments that can impact a company's non-cash operating expenses, CleanSpark management believes that providing this non-GAAP financial measure that exclude non-cash and non-recurring expenses allows for meaningful comparisons between the Company's core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing the Company with an important tool for financial and operational decision making and for evaluating its own core business operating results over different periods of time. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is also useful to investors and analysts in comparing our performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis. Adjusted EBITDA excludes (i) impacts of interest, taxes, and depreciation; (ii) significant non-cash expenses such as our share-based compensation expense, unrealized gains/losses on securities, certain financing costs, other non-cash items that we believe are not reflective of our general business performance, and for which the accounting requires management judgment, and the resulting expenses could vary significantly in comparison to other companies; (iii) significant impairment losses related to long-lived and digital assets, which include our bitcoin for which the accounting requires significant estimates and judgment, and the resulting expenses could vary significantly 39 in comparison to other companies; and (iv) and impacts related to discontinued operations that would not be applicable to our future business activities. The Company's adjusted EBITDA measure may not provide information that is directly comparable to that provided by other companies in its industry, as other companies in its industry may calculate non-GAAP financial results differently, particularly related to non-recurring, unusual items. The Company's adjusted EBITDA is not a measurement of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to operating income or as an indication of operating performance or any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Our management does not consider adjusted EBITDA to be a substitute for, or superior to, the information provided by GAAP financial results. We are providing non-GAAP adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (adjusted EBITDA) that excludes the impact of interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, our share-based compensation expense, and impairment of assets, unrealized gains/losses on securities, certain financing costs, other non-cash items, certain non-recurring expenses, and impacts related to discontinued operations; Adjusted EBITDA is a supplemental financial measure and is not a measurement of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) and, as a result, this supplemental financial measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Management uses adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure internally to help understand, manage, and evaluate our business performance and to help make operating decisions. Non-GAAP financial measures are subject to material limitations as they are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, measurements prepared in accordance with GAAP. For example, we expect that share-based compensation expense, which is excluded from the adjusted EBITDA, will continue to be a significant recurring expense over the coming years and is an important part of the compensation provided to certain employees, officers, and directors. We have also excluded impairment losses on assets, including impairments of our bitcoin from adjusted EBITDA, which may continue to occur in future periods as a result of our continued holdings of significant amounts of bitcoin. Adjusted EBITDA is not meant to be considered in isolation and should be read only in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. We rely primarily on such Consolidated Financial Statements to understand, manage, and evaluate our business performance and use adjusted EBITDA only supplementally. 40 The following is a reconciliation of our non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA, which excludes the impact of (i) interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization; (ii) our share-based compensation expense; (iii) impairment expense; (iv) unrealized gains/losses on securities; and (v) impacts related to discontinued operations, to its most directly comparable GAAP measure (i.e., net loss) for the periods indicated: Years Ended September 30, 2022 2021 Reconciliation of non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA Net loss $ (57,326,354 ) $ (21,812,010 ) Loss on discontinued operations 17,236,961 13,582,848 Other impairment loss (related to bitcoin) 12,210,269 6,608,076 Impairment expense - other 250,000 - Impairment expense - goodwill 12,048,419 - Depreciation and amortization 49,044,877 8,982,123 Share-based compensation expense 31,464,994 8,546,712 Other income (308,036 ) (544,777 ) Change in fair value of contingent consideration (305,731 ) (84,198 ) Realized gain on sale of bitcoin (2,567,101 ) (3,104,378 ) Realized gain on sale of equity security (665 ) (179,046 ) Unrealized loss of equity security 1,847 5,153 Unrealized loss (gain) of derivative security 1,949,770 (2,790,387 ) Interest income (190,540 ) (221,488 ) Interest expense 1,077,827 145,728 Gain on disposal of assets (642,691 ) - Legal fees related to litigation 522,338 2,577,555 Legal fees related to financing & business development transactions 827,136 46,760 Severance expenses 404,749 PPP debt forgiveness $ (531,169 ) Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA $ 65,698,069 $ 11,227,502 The following is a reconciliation of fair market value of our bitcoin holdings to the current carrying value at September 30, 2022 and 2021: September 30, 2022 September 30, 2021 Carrying Value (1) Fair Market Value (2) Carrying Value (1) Fair Market Value (2) Number of Bitcoins held 595 595 627 627 Value per coin (1) (2) $ 18,735 $ 19,403 $ 37,645 $ 43,929 Total $ 11,147,478 $ 11,544,785 $ 23,603,415 $ 27,543,483 (1) Value per coin is the average book value per coin determined by the number of coins held as of the balance sheet date divided by the carrying value. (2) Value per coin is the quoted market price as of the balance sheet date. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are working capital, inventory management, capital expenditures, public company costs and general corporate needs. We expect these needs to continue as we further develop and grow our business. For the year ended September 30, 2022, our primary sources of liquidity came from existing cash and cash equivalents, and bitcoin. Based on our current plans and business conditions, we believe that existing cash and cash equivalents and bitcoin, together with cash generated from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements until we reach profitability, and we are not aware of any trends or demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that are reasonably likely to result in a decrease in liquidity of our assets. We are likely to require additional capital to respond to technological advancements, competitive dynamics or technologies, business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances and in either the short-term or long-term may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons. If we are unable to 41 obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. In particular, rising inflation and interest rates, and the conflict between Russia and Ukraine have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption and volatility in the global financial markets, reducing our ability to access capital. If we are unable to raise additional funds when or on the terms desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As of September 30, 2022, we had total current assets of $50,775,974, consisting of cash and cash equivalents, bitcoin, accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid expenses and other current assets, investment in debt security and related derivative asset, current assets held for sale, and total assets in the amount of $452,624,772. Our total current liabilities and total liabilities as of September 30, 2022 were $34,040,775 and $48,612,961, respectively. We had a working capital of $16,735,199 as of September 30, 2022. In addition, we have access to equity financing through our At-the-Market ("ATM") offering facility and debt financing through the lending arrangement we entered into in April 2022. Material Cash Requirements We are a party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. These obligations impact our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Certain contractual obligations are reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2022, while others are considered future commitments. Our contractual obligations primarily consist of cancelable purchase commitments with various parties to purchase goods or services, primarily miners and equipment, entered into in the normal course of business and operating leases. The Company also has contractual obligations outside the normal course of business related to acquisitions deemed to be business combinations. For information regarding our contractual obligations, see Contractual Obligations below and refer to Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies included elsewhere in this Annual Report. For information regarding our contractual obligations related to acquisitions deemed to be business combinations, refer to Note 4 included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Operating Activities from Continuing Operations Operating activities provided $77,806,160 in cash for the year ended September 30, 2022, as compared to cash outflows of $12,159,108 for the same period ended September 30, 2021. Our sale of bitcoin of $133,201,006, depreciation and amortization of $49,044,877, stock-based compensation of $31,464,994, and impairment of bitcoin of $12,210,269 were the main components of our operating cash flow for year ended September 30, 2022, offset primarily by the increase in bitcoin mining of $130,999,686, net loss of $57,326,354, and increase in prepaid and other current assets of $2,393,320. Our use of net cash in operating activities during the year ended September 30, 2021 were primarily driven by net loss from continuing operations for the period of $8,229,162, bitcoin mining of $38,846,633, and unrealized gain on derivative asset of $2,790,387, offset by stock based compensation of $8,546,712, depreciation and amortization of $9,336,941, impairment of bitcoin of $6,608,076, sale of bitcoin of $11,443,132, and increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $4,246,445. Cash provided by operating activities increased significantly primarily due to increased sales of bitcoin. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, the Company mined significantly more bitcoin than the prior year, resulting in greater cash proceeds generated. Investing Activities from Continuing Operations Cash flows used by investing activities during the year ended September 30, 2022 was $210,981,538 as compared with $228,157,922 for the year ended September 30, 2021. Our payments on miner equipment purchase and deposits of $171,181,268, purchase of fixed assets of $19,285,904, and sale of miners of $3,497,654 were the main components of our investing cash flow for the year ended September 30, 2022. Our purchase of fixed assets of $139,234,948, and deposits on mining equipment of $89,260,010 were the main components of our negative investing cash flow for the year ended September 30, 2021. The negative cash flow from 42 investing activities was offset by acquisition of ATL Data Center, net of cash received of $45,783 and sale of equity securities of $373,121. Financing Activities from Continuing Operations Cash flows generated by financing activities during the year ended September 30, 2022 amounted to $141,959,688, as compared with $268,058,393 for the year ended September 30, 2021. Our cash flows from financing activities for the year ended September 30, 2022 consisted primarily of proceeds from underwritten offering of $125,047,987 and proceeds from equipment backed loan of $19,620,356. Our cash flows from financing activities for the year ended September 30, 2021 consisted of $270,656,118 in proceeds from offerings, $3,750,932 in proceeds from the exercise of warrants and options offset by repayments of $5,882,553 on promissory notes and $288,602 in finance leases. In June 2021, we implemented an at-the-market share offering program (ATM Offering), whereby we may offer and sell our shares of common stock, $0.001 par value per share, having an aggregate gross sales price of up to $500 million. During our fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, under this program, we sold 17,722,026 shares at a weighted average price of $7.06 per share, generating net proceeds of $125,047,987. The proceeds were used primarily to make acquisitions of capital equipment, including but not limited to bitcoin mining equipment, electrical infrastructure and acquisitions deemed business combinations. Cash Flows from Discontinued Operations The Company experienced significant cash outflows from its energy segment, which is a significant reason the Company concluded to exit the energy business segment. The cash used in the operating activities of the energy segment (discontinued operations) for the year ended September 30, 2022 was $6,362,067, as compared to cash used of $11,827,102 for the year ended September 30, 2021. The Company anticipates that the sale of its energy business will improve the future total cash provided by operating activities, and will improve liquidity to fund future growth initiatives in the bitcoin mining segment. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In October 2021, the FASB issued ASU 2021-08, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Accounting for Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities from Contracts with Customers, which requires contract assets and contract liabilities acquired in a business combination to be recognized and measured by the acquirer on the acquisition date in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as if it had originated the contracts. Under the current business combinations guidance, such assets and liabilities are recognized by the acquirer at fair value on the acquisition date. This new guidance is effective for the Company for its fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Company is evaluating its potential impact but does not expect the new standard to have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial InstrumentsCredit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments on October 1, 2020 (ASU 2016-13). ASU 2016-13 requires entities to use a new forward-looking expected loss model that reflects expected credit losses, including credit losses related to trade receivables, and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates, which generally will result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses. As the Company was a Smaller Reporting Company at the time of issuance of the ASU, the Company expects to adopt the ASU effective October 1, 2023, including the interim periods within the fiscal year. Early application of the adoption is permitted. The Company is evaluating its potential impact but does not expect the new standard to have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows. In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, Debt - Debt with Conversion and Other Options (subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging - Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (subtopic 815-40), which reduces the number of accounting models in ASC 470-20 that require separate accounting for embedded conversion features. As a result, a convertible debt instrument will be accounted for as a single liability measured at its amortized cost as long as no other features require bifurcation and recognition as derivatives. By removing those separation models, the effective interest rate of convertible debt instruments will be closer to the coupon interest rate. Further, the diluted net income 43 per share calculation for convertible instruments will require the Company to use the if-converted method. The treasury stock method should no longer be used to calculate diluted net income per share for convertible instruments. The amendment will be effective for the Company for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, but no earlier than fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We expect the adoption of ASU 2020-06 to not have a material impact on the Companys financial statements or disclosures. The Company has evaluated all other recent accounting pronouncements and believes that none of them will have a material effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our accounting policies are discussed in detail in the footnotes to our financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2022 however we consider our critical accounting policies to be those related to revenue recognition, long-lived assets, fair value of financial instruments, bitcoin, and stock-based compensation. Our significant estimates include estimates used to review the Companys goodwill impairments and estimations of recoverability for long-lived assets. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable in the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.