Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections contained in this document, and any subsequent reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Given these risks and uncertainties, the reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur, or of which we hereafter become aware. You should read this document completely and with the understanding that our actual future results or events may be materially different from what we expect. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Information regarding market and industry statistics contained in this report is included based on information available to us that we believe is accurate. It is generally based on industry and other publications that are not produced for purposes of securities filings or economic analysis. Forecasts and other forward-looking information obtained from these sources are subject to the same qualifications and the additional uncertainties accompanying any estimates of future market size, revenue and market acceptance of products and services. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements. As a result, investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms we, us, our, the Company, CleanSpark, Inc. and CleanSpark mean CleanSpark, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. Overview CleanSpark, Inc. is a Nevada corporation. We are in the business of providing advanced software and controls technology solutions to solve modern energy challenges. We have a suite of software solutions that provide end-to-end microgrid energy modeling, energy market communications and energy management solutions. Our offerings consist of intelligent energy monitoring and controls, intelligent microgrid design software, middleware communications protocols for the energy industry, energy system engineering and software consulting services. The software platforms (the Platforms) which are integral to our business are summarized as follows: mVSO Platform: Energy modeling software for microgrid design and sales mPulse Platform: Patented, proprietary controls platform that enables integration and optimization of multiple energy sources. Canvas: Middleware used by Grid Operators and Aggregators to administrate load shifting programs. Plaid: Middleware used by Controls and IoT Product Companies to participate in load shifting programs The Platforms are designed to allow customers to design, build, and operate distributed energy systems and microgrids which efficiently manage energy generation assets, energy storage assets, and energy consumption assets. Our software products enable users to implement software solutions to execute on these strategies. These strategies are generally targeted to operate distributed energy assets in a manner that provides resiliency and economic optimization and/or revenue generation through wholesale market activities. We also offer digital agency services through p2kLabs, Inc. including creative design, marketing/digital content, technical development, and engineering. We also own patented gasification technologies. Our technology converts any organic material into SynGas which can be used as fuel for a variety of applications and as feedstock for the generation of DME (Di-Methyl Ether). As previously disclosed, we plan to continue to focus on our other product offerings, as opposed to expending significant efforts on the Gasifier side of the business. Lines of Business Energy Business Segment Through CleanSpark, LLC, the Company provides microgrid engineering, design and software solutions to military, commercial and residential customers. Our services consist of distributed energy microgrid system engineering and design, and project consulting services. Through CleanSpark Critical Power Systems, Inc., the Company provides custom hardware solutions for distributed energy systems that serve military and commercial residential properties. Through GridFabric, LLC the Company provides Open Automated Demand response (OpenADR) and other middleware communication protocol software solutions to commercial and utility customers. Digital Agency Segment Through p2kLabs, Inc., the Company provides design, software development and other technology-based consulting services. 4 Table of Contents Distributed Energy Management and Microgrid Industry Integral to our business is our Distributed Energy Management Business (the DER Business). The main assets of our DER Business include our propriety software systems (Systems) and also our engineering and methodology trade secrets. The Distributed Energy systems and Microgrids that utilize our Systems are capable of providing secure, sustainable energy with significant cost savings for its energy customers. The Systems allows customers to design, engineer, and then efficiently communicate with and manage renewable energy generation, storage and consumption. By having autonomous control over the multiple facets of energy usage and storage, customers are able to reduce their dependency on utilities, thereby keeping energy costs relatively constant over time. The overall aim is to transform energy consumers into intelligent energy producers by supplying and managing power in a manner that anticipates their routine instead of interrupting it. Around the world, the aging grid is becoming unstable and unreliable due to increases in loads and lack of new large-scale generation facilities. This inherent instability is compounded by the push to integrate a growing number and variety of renewable but intermittent energy generation assets and advanced technologies into outdated electrical grid systems. Simultaneously, defense installations, industrial complexes, communities, campuses and other aggregators across the world are turning to virtual power plants and microgrids as a means to decrease their reliance from the grid, reduce utility costs, utilize cleaner power, and enhance energy security and surety. The convergence of these factors is creating significant opportunities in the power supply optimization and energy management industry. Efficiently operating and managing the distributed energy management systems and microgrids of tomorrow, while maximizing the use of sustainable energy to produce affordable, stable, predictable and reliable power on a large scale, is a significant opportunity that early-movers can leverage to capture a large share of this emerging global industry. A microgrid is comprised of any number of energy generation, energy storage, and smart distribution assets that serve a single or multiple loads, both connected to the utility grid and separate from the utility grid islanded. In the past, distributed energy management systems and microgrids have consisted of off-grid generators organized with controls to provide power where utility lines cannot run. Today, modern distributed energy management systems and microgrids integrate renewable energy generation systems (REGS) with advanced energy storage devices and interoperate with the local utility grid. Advanced autonomous cyber-secure microgrids controls relay information between intelligent hardware and servers to make decisions in real-time that deliver optimum power where it is needed, when it is needed. Our mPulse software is an integrated distributed energy management control platform that seamlessly integrates and controls all forms of energy generation with energy storage devices to provide energy security in real time free of cyber threats to service facility loads. DER systems are able to interoperate with the local utility grid, and bring users the ability to choose when to buy or sell power to and from the utility grid. mPulse is ideal DER systems for commercial, industrial, defense, campus and residential users and ranges in size from 4KW to 100MW and beyond. mPulse Software Suite mPulse is a modular platform that provides intelligent control of a Microgrid based on a systems operational goals, energy assets and forecasted energy load and generation. mPulse performs high-frequency calculations, threshold-based alarming, execution of domain-specific business rules, internal and external health monitoring, historical data persistence, and system-to-operator notifications. The modular design increases system flexibility and extensibility. In addition, the deployment of the mPulse system follows a security-conscious posture by deploying hardware-based firewalls as well as encryption across communication channels. mPulse allows configuration for site-specific equipment and operation and provides a clean, informative user interface to allow customers to monitor and analyze the data streams that describe how their microgrid is operating. mPulse supports our innovative fractal approach to microgrid design, which enables multiple microgrids on a single site to interact in a number of different ways, including as peers, in a parent-child relationship, and in parallel or completely disconnected. Each grid can have different operational objectives, and those operational objectives can change over time. Any microgrid can be islanded from the rest of the microgrid as well as the larger utility grid. The mPulse software can control the workflow required in both the islanding steps as well as the reconnecting steps of this maneuver and coordinate connected equipment such that connections are only made when it is safe to do so. 5 Table of Contents Microgrid Value Stream Optimizer (mVSO) The Microgrid Value Stream Optimizer (mVSO) software platform provides a robust distributed energy and microgrid system modeling solution. mVSO takes utility rate data and load data for a customer site and helps automate the sizing and analysis of potential microgrid solutions as well as providing a financial analysis around each grid configuration. mVSO uses historical data to generate projected energy performance of generation assets and models how storage responds to varying operational modes and command logics based upon predicted generation and load curves. mVSO analyzes multiple equipment combinations and operational situations to determine the optimal configuration for a site based on the financial and economic results, equipment outlay, utility cost savings, etc., to arrive at payback and IRR values. This ultimately provides the user with data to design a distributed energy and/or microgrid system that will meet the customers performance benchmarks. The system also provides users with business development and proposal generation tools to more efficiently present the results to end-customers. Critical power switchgear and hardware solutions CleanSpark Critical Power Systems, Inc. Through the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, CleanSpark Critical Power Systems, Inc. we provide parallel switchgear, automatic transfer switches and related control and circuit protective equipment solutions for commercial, industrial, defense, campus and residential users. We utilize Pioneer Power Solutions, Inc. for contract manufacturing, of our parallel switchgear, automatic transfer switches and related control and circuit protective equipment. OpenADR and communication protocol software solutions GridFabric Through the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, GridFabric, LLC we offer Open ADR solutions to commercial and utility customers. GridFabric provides middleware software solutions for utilities and IoT (Internet of Things) products that manage energy loads. OpenADR 2.0b is now the basis for the standard to be developed by the International Electrotechnical Commission. GridFabric's core products are Canvas and Plaid. Canvas Canvas is an OpenADR 2.0b Virtual Top Node ('VTN') built for testing and managing Virtual End Nodes ('VENs') that are piloting and running load shifting programs. Canvas is offered to customers in the Cloud as a SaaS solution or as a licensed software. Plaid Plaid is a licensed software solution that allows any internet connected product that uses energy (i.e. Solar, Storage & Inverters, Demand Response, EV Charging, Lighting, Industrial controls, Building Management Systems, etc.) to add load shifting capabilities by translating load shifting protocols into their existing APIs. Companies that implement Plaid through GridFabric get a Certified OpenADR 2.0b Virtual End Node (VEN) upon completion of the implementation process. Digital Agency Segment p2kLabs Through the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, p2kLabs, Inc. we provide a suite of digital services from creative design to technical development for products and services through the entire product/service lifecycle. P2k is made up of labs whereas each lab contains its own unique offering including design, marketing/digital content, engineering & SalesForce development, and strategy services. Legacy Gasifier Business Our Gasification technologies and prototype will need to undergo further additional testing to further establish its commercial capability of producing large volumes of clean, renewable energy from any carbon compound (Municipal Solid Waste (MSW), Coal, Sewage Sludge) into clean Synthesis Gas( SynGas) . Our prototype Gasifier is still under development and a commercially viable Gasifier is not expected to be sellable until we expend additional resources on its testing and development. A third-party consulting firm has independently tested the Gasifer's performance and certified the results of its performance. Upon completion of the testing, an initial white paper was published outlining the results and suggested improvements for commercialization. We anticipate that the investment to complete these improvements would b e between approximately $500,000. Upon completion of the improvements, we would be required to conduct an extended test run with an independent third party to verify the results needed to prove its commercial viability, at which time we could begin to actively market our Gasifier units. 6 Table of Contents We own Patent Nos. 9,890,340B2, 9,359,567, 8,518,133 8,105,401 and 8,347,829 protecting our gasification technology and process for using feedstock comprising gaseous fuel Our patented process involves the grinding, drying, separating, mixing, and then pelletizing of solid waste. These pellets constitute the feedstock for the Gasifier. Gasifying feedstock using our technology converts waste and organic material into SynGas. SynGas can be converted into multiple forms of fuel for power plants, motor vehicles, jets, duel-fuel diesel engines, gas turbines, and steam boilers and as feedstock for the generation of DME (Di-Methyl Ether). The SynGas produced is mostly hydrogen and carbon monoxide which are primary building blocks for many fuels and chemicals. Syngas is sufficiently clean that it if processed directly it generally does not require costly hot-gas cleanup. As discussed above, we do not anticipate deploying significant resources on the gasification business at this time. As opportunities arise, we intend to utilize the gasification assets and intellectual properties through licensing or sales agreements. We have not engaged in any significant negotiations to sell or license our Gasifier products to any major customers. Markets, Geography and Major Customers The Companys products and services predominantly serve the North American and Latin American energy markets, and primarily the commercial and industrial space. Based on recent market experience, it appears there may be some seasonality with deliveries decreasing in November and December each year, likely as a result of the US holiday season and as a result of varied customer appropriation cycles; however, we believe these market factors will continue to evolve and the Companys insight to these trends will improve with continued commercial success and time. For the year ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively 58.3% and 34.8% of our total consolidated revenues were associated primarily with one customer. A loss or decline in business with this customer, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We provide our hardware products under contract manufacturing agreements. we provide our software and services at customer locations and from our offices located in Utah, Nevada and California . Working Capital Items We do not maintain significant inventory. Our inventory levels are currently adequate for our short-term needs based upon present levels of demand. We consider the component parts of our different products to be generally available and current suppliers to be reliable and capable of satisfying anticipated needs. Distribution, Marketing and Strategic Relationships We have developed strategic relationships with well-established companies in key areas including distribution and manufacturing. We sell our products worldwide, with a primary focus on North America and Latin America, through our direct product sales force, and partner networks. Materials and Suppliers Although most components essential to our business are generally available from multiple sources. We believe there are component suppliers and manufacturing vendors whose loss to us could have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial condition. The Company currently engages a contract manufacturer, whereby they exclusively manufacture parallel switchgear, automatic transfer switches and related control and circuit protective equipment for us. Historically, we have not experienced significant delays in the supply or availability of our key materials or components provided by our suppliers, nor have we experienced a significant price increase for materials or components. We do not anticipate any such delays or significant price increases in our fiscal year 2021. 7 Table of Contents Environmental Issues No significant pollution or other types of hazardous emission result from the Companys operations and it is not anticipated that our operations will be materially affected by federal, state or local provisions concerning environmental controls. Our costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements have not been material. We do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on our business or markets that we serve, nor on our results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. Competition We experience competition in all areas of our business. The markets we address for alternative energy and microgrid markets, energy controls and communications systems are characterized by the presence of both new start-ups and well-established product providers. We believe the principal competitive factors in the markets in which we operate include product features, including scalability, relative price and performance, lifetime operating cost, including any maintenance and support, product quality and reliability, safety, ease of use, rapid integration with new and existing distributed energy assets, customer support, design innovation, marketing and distribution capability, service and support and corporate reputation. Some of our competitors have substantially larger financial and other resources. Factors that could affect our ability increase sales of our System may include resource limitations, available information and our standards established for projected return on investment. Distributed Energy Management Business Competition Our DER Business and software platforms are set up to compete against larger companies. We offer an end-to-end suite of software solution that enables microgrids from design through operations and communication .Our integrated microgrid control platform seamlessly integrates energy generation with energy storage devices and controls facility loads to provide energy security in real time. The platforms are able to interoperate with the local utility grid and allows users the ability to obtain the most cost-effective power for a facility. The systems are technology agnostic and can incorporate into multiple vendors and manufacturers products and legacy systems. The systems are ideal for commercial, industrial, mining, defense, campus and community users ranging from 4 kw to 100 MW and beyond and can deliver power at or below the current cost of utility power. All of these attributes contribute to our ability to compete with the larger, more established competitors that have rely on their own manufactured products and hardware solutions. The principal advantages of our Platforms are: Technology agnostic approach allows customers to leverage aged legacy systems reducing implementation costs. The automated process is user friendly and does not require highly qualified engineers to operate. We believe our project proposal tool is more accurate than any other option on the market. Distributed Energy and Microgrid control technologies are fairly new to the market and can be deployed in various formats. Eight technologies that are predominantly used in commercial applications and/or have been extensively studied are: Schneider Electric Spirae Ageto Energy PowerSecure ABB 8 Table of Contents Energy Modeling Business Competition Energy Toolbase Homer Gasifier Business Competition Our Gasifier system is expected to compete against larger gasification projects. Our modular concept allows for parallel processing so a facility could be easily expanded or reduced without risk or changing the basic structure by simply adding or removing module units; it also allows for multiple end product processing, producing electricity, ethanol, and fuels simultaneously, and for universal parts which reduces maintenance costs. We expect a ll of these attributes contribute to our ability to compete with the larger, more established competitors that have large systems that require significant downtime for maintenance and repair. As previously disclosed, we plan to continue to focus on our other product offerings, as opposed to expending significant efforts on the Gasifier side of the business. Intellectual Property In relation to our microgrid business, we own the following patents: Patent No. 9,941,696 B2 "Establishing Communication and Power Sharing Links Between Components of a Distributed Energy System, awarded April 10, 2018, is a revolutionary patent that specifically addresses CleanSpark's engineering and data-analytics technologies, processes and procedures. The patent covers CleanSpark's ability to receive data from a plurality of sources within a microgrid, which is then analyzed to forecast power needs across the microgrid, or a combination of multiple 'fractal' microgrids, and then determining whether or when to share power with the requesting module. In relation to our legacy gasifier business, we own the following patents: Patent No. 9,359,567 Gasification Method Using Feedstock Comprising Gaseous Fuels; Patent No. 8,518,133 Parallel Path, Downdraft Gasifier Apparatus and Method; and Patent No. 8,105,401 Parallel Path, Downdraft Gasifier Apparatus and Method. ; Patent No. 8,347,829 Electrolytic Reactor and Related Methods for Supplementing the Air Intake of an Internal Combustion Engine. The second Patent, "Parallel Path Downdraft Gasifier Apparatus and Method, US 9,890, 340 B2", awarded February 13, 2018, further enhances CleanSpark's patent portfolio surrounding its proprietary gasification and waste-to-energy technologies. Our patents begin to expire between 2028 and 2035. Government Regulation We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental quality and pollution control. It is anticipated that, absent the occurrence of an extraordinary event, compliance with existing federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations concerning the protection of the environment and human health will not have a material effect upon us, our capital expenditures, or earnings. We cannot predict what effect additional regulation or legislation, enforcement policies thereunder and claims for damages for injuries to property, employees, other persons and the environment resulting from our operations. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation by state and federal authorities including the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). This regulation has not increased the cost of planning, designing and operating to date. Although we believe that compliance with environmental regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or results of these operations, there can be no assurance that significant costs and liabilities, including criminal penalties, will not be incurred. Moreover, it is possible that other developments, including stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages for injuries to property or persons resulting from our activities could result in substantial costs and liabilities. In the conduct of our activities, our operations will be subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) and comparable state statutes. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of the federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act and similar state statutes require us to organize information about hazardous materials used, released or produced in its operations. Certain of this information must be provided to employees, state and local governmental authorities and local citizens. We are also subject to the requirements and reporting set forth in OSHA workplace standards. 9 Table of Contents Other than the above regulations and maintaining our good standing in the State of Nevada, complying with applicable local business licensing requirements, complying with all state and federal tax requirements, preparing our periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and complying with other applicable securities laws, rules, and regulations, and our discussion related to our newly acquired ATL Data Centers LLC subsidiary regarding bitcoin mining operations, we do not believe that existing or probably governmental regulations will have a material effect on our operations. We do not currently require the approval of any governmental agency or affiliated program for our operations. Product Development Because the distributed energy and related software industry is still in an early state of adoption, our ability to compete successfully is heavily dependent upon our ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services, and technologies to the marketplace. We continue to develop new products and technologies and to enhance existing products in order to drive further commercialization. We may also expand the range of our product offerings and intellectual property through licensing and/or acquisition of third-party business and technology. Human Capital Resources; Employees; Personnel We believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel. As of December 14, 2020, we had 62 staff members with 56 full time salaried employees. We continue to seek additions to our staff, although the competition for such personnel in our segments is significant. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. Company Websites We maintain a corporate Internet website at: www.cleanspark.com and informational websites for our subsidiaries at www.p2klabs.com and www.gridfabric.io. The contents of these websites are not incorporated in or otherwise to be regarded as part of this Annual Report. We file reports with the SEC which are available on our website free of charge. These reports include annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings on Form 3, Form 4, and Form 5, and other related filings, each of which is provided on our website as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such materials with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including the Company. Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks that may materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. In evaluating an investment in shares of our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information included in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, or if additional risks and uncertainties later materialize, that are not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, then our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our shares. The risks discussed below include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business Our business may be subject to risks arising from pandemic, epidemic, or an outbreak of diseases, such as the recent outbreak of the COVID-19 illness. The recent outbreak of the novel strain of coronavirus, or COVID-19, which has been declared by the World Health Organization to be a public health emergency of international concern, has spread across the globe and is impacting worldwide economic activity. A public health pandemic, including COVID-19, poses the risk that we or our employees, 10 Table of Contents contractors, suppliers, and other partners may be prevented from conducting business activities for an indefinite period of time, including due to shutdowns that may be requested or mandated by governmental authorities. While it is not possible at this time to estimate the impact that COVID-19 could have on our business, the continued spread of COVID-19 and the measures taken by the governments of countries affected could disrupt the supply chain and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. The COVID-19 outbreak and mitigation measures may also have an adverse impact on global economic conditions which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The extent to which the COVID-19 outbreak impacts our results will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning the severity of the virus and the actions to contain its impact. We lack an established operating history and have incurred losses in prior periods, expect to incur losses in the future and we can give no assurance that our operations will result in profits. We have a limited operating history that makes it difficult to evaluate our business. Historical sales pertaining to our products have been in insufficient to create positive cashflows or profitability, and we cannot say with certainty when we will begin to achieve profitability. Since inception, we have sustained $116,402,606 in cumulative net losses and we had a net loss for the fiscal year September 30, 2020 of $23,346,143. We expect to have operating losses at least until such time as we have developed a substantial and stable revenue base. We cannot assure you that we can develop a substantial and stable revenue base or achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our future success is difficult to predict because we operate in emerging and evolving markets, and the industries in which we compete are subject to volatile and unpredictable cycles. The renewable energy, microgrid and related industries are emerging and evolving markets which may make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and which may lead to period to period variability in our operating results. Our products and services are based on unique technology which we believe offers significant advantages to our customers, but the markets we serve are in a relatively early stage of development and it is uncertain how rapidly they will develop. It is also uncertain whether our products will achieve high levels of demand and acceptance as these markets grow. If companies in the industries we serve do not perceive or value the benefits of our technologies and products, or if they are unwilling to adopt our products as alternatives to traditional power solutions, the market for our products and services may not develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, which could significantly and adversely impact our operating results. As a supplier to the renewable energy, microgrid and related industries, we may be subject to business cycles. The timing, length, and volatility of these business cycles may be difficult to predict. These industries may be cyclical due to sudden changes in customers manufacturing capacity requirements and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand for customers products, inventory levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital. These changes may affect the timing and amounts of customers purchases and investments in technology, and affect our orders, net sales, operating expenses, and net income. In addition, we may not be able to respond adequately or quickly to the declines in demand by reducing our costs. To meet rapidly changing demand in each of the industries we serve, we must effectively manage our resources and production capacity. During periods of decreasing demand for our products, we must be able to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, effectively manage our supply chain, and motivate and retain key employees. During periods of increasing demand, we must have sufficient inventory to fulfill customer orders, effectively manage our supply chain, and attract, retain, and motivate a sufficient number of qualified individuals. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes in our business environment or to accurately assess where we are positioned within a business cycle, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents The industries in which we compete are highly competitive and we may be unable to successfully compete to survive. We compete in the market for renewable energy products and microgrid technology and associated services that is intensely competitive. Evolving industry standards, rapid price changes and product obsolescence also impact the market. Our competitors include many domestic and foreign companies, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. Our current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced technologies, products or services with features that render our technologies, products or services obsolete, less competitive or less marketable. Our success will be dependent upon our ability to develop products that are superior to existing products and products introduced in the future, and which are cost effective. In addition, we may be required to continually enhance any products that are developed as well as introduce new products that keep pace with technological change and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of the marketplace. Even if our current technologies prove to be commercially feasible, there is extensive research and development being conducted on alternative energy sources that may render our technologies and protocols obsolete or otherwise non-competitive. There can be no assurance that we will be able to keep pace with the technological demands of the marketplace or successfully develop products that will succeed in the marketplace. As a small company, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to most of our competitors, which include larger, established companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than us. There can be no assurance that we will have the capital resources available to undertake the research that may be necessary to upgrade our equipment or develop new devices to meet the efficiencies of changing technologies. Our inability to adapt to technological change could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on patents and proprietary rights to protect our technology and enforcing those rights could disrupt our business operation and divert precious resources that could ultimately harm our future prospects. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and procedures and patents to protect our proprietary technologies. In relation to our microgrid business, we own the following patents: Patent No. 9,941,696 B2 and patent number 10,658,839 "Establishing Communication and Power Sharing Links Between Components of a Distributed Energy System, awarded April 10, 2018, The patent covers CleanSpark's ability to receive data from a plurality of sources within a microgrid, which is then analyzed to forecast power needs across the microgrid, or a combination of multiple 'fractal' microgrids, and then determining whether or when to share power with the requesting module. We also own patent numbers 8,518,133 and 8,105,401 Parallel Path, Downdraft Gasifier Apparatus and Method' and patent number 9,359,567 Gasification Method Using Feedstock Comprising Gaseous Fuel which covers our Gasifier technology. We also own patent number 8,342,829 entitled Electrolytic Reactor and Related Methods for Supplementing the Air Intake of an Internal Combustion Engine. The claims contained in any patent may not provide adequate protection for our products and technology. In the absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products or gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to this technology to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If a dispute arises concerning our technology, we could become involved in litigation that might involve substantial cost. Litigation could divert substantial management attention away from our operations and into efforts to enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the scope of the proprietary rights of others. If a proceeding resulted in adverse findings, we could be subject to significant liabilities to third parties. We might also be required to seek licenses from third parties to manufacture or sell our products. Our ability to manufacture and sell our products may also be adversely affected by other unforeseen factors relating to the proceeding or its outcome. As we continue to grow and to develop our intellectual property, we could attract threats from patent monetization firms or competitors alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. If we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we may be required to: pay monetary 12 Table of Contents damages; stop commercial activities relating to our product; obtain one or more licenses in order to secure the rights to continue manufacturing or marketing certain products; or attempt to compete in the market with substantially similar products. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue some of our operations. A material part of our success will depend on our ability to manage our suppliers and contract manufacturers. Our failure to manage our suppliers and contract manufacturers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and relations with our customers. We rely upon suppliers to provide the components necessary to build our products and on contract manufacturers to procure components and assemble our products. There can be no assurance that key suppliers and contract manufacturers will provide components or products in a timely and cost efficient manner or otherwise meet our needs and expectations. Our ability to manage such relationships and timely replace suppliers and contract manufacturers, if necessary, is critical to our success. Our failure to timely replace our contract manufacturers and suppliers, should that become necessary, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and relations with our customers. If we are the subject of future product defect or liability suits, our business will likely fail. In the course of our planned operations, we may become subject to legal actions based on a claim that our products are defective in workmanship or have caused personal or other injuries. We currently maintain liability insurance but there can be no guarantee that such coverage may not be adequate to cover all potential claims. Moreover, even if we are able to maintain sufficient insurance coverage in the future, any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to lawsuits and other claims if our products malfunction, which could increase our expenses, harm our reputation and prevent us from growing our business. Any liability for damages resulting from malfunctions of our products could be substantial, increase our expenses and prevent us from growing or continuing our business. Potential customers may rely on our products for critical needs and a malfunction of our products could result in warranty claims or other product liability. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the markets perception of our products. This could result in a decline in demand for our products, which would reduce revenue and harm our business. Further, since our products are used in systems that are made up on components made by other manufacturers, we may be subject to product liability claims even if our products do not malfunction. Any failure by management to properly manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If our business develops as expected, we anticipate that we will grow rapidly in the near future. Our failure to properly manage our expected rapid growth could have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain key personnel. Our expansion could also place significant demands on our management, operations, systems, accounting, internal controls and financial resources. If we experience difficulties in any of these areas, we may not be able to expand our business successfully or effectively manage our growth. Any failure by management to manage growth and to respond to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The lack of management experience in the renewable energy and microgrid industries could adversely affect our company. Some members of management and the board of directors may not have prior experience in the energy industry. Some members do, however, have extensive work experience in the reclamation, environmental industries, energy industries, financial/accounting industries, and business management. The lack of experience in the alternative energy industry may impair our managements and directors ability to evaluate and make decisions involving our current operations and any future projects we may undertake in the alternative energy industry. Such impairment and lack of experience could adversely affect our business, financial condition and future operations. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled experts and workers our ability to pursue projects may be adversely affected and our costs may increase. Our rate of growth will be confined by resource limitations as competitors and customers compete for increasingly scarce resources. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of affordable trained experts that can execute our operational strategy. The demand for trained software engineers, electrical engineers and other skilled workers is currently high. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel, our ability to pursue projects may be adversely affected and the costs of performing our existing and future projects may increase, which may adversely impact our margins. We have engaged in and may engage in acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders, reduce our financial resources and harm our operating results. We have been involved in significant acquisitions in our lifespan. In the future, we may seek additional opportunities to expand our product offerings or the markets we serve by acquiring other companies, product lines, technologies and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: o difficulties integrating the operations, technologies, products, and personnel of an acquired company or being subjected to liability for the targets preacquisition activities or operations as a successor in interest; o diversion of managements attention from normal daily operations of the business; o potential difficulties completing projects associated with inprocess research and development; o difficulties entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, especially when competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; o initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; o insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; o the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; and o the potential for recording goodwill and intangible assets that later can be subject to impairment. Acquisitions may also cause us to: o issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders percentage ownership; o assume or otherwise be subject to liabilities of an acquired company; o record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges; o incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; o incur large acquisition and integration costs, immediate writeoffs, and restructuring and other related expenses; and o become subject to litigation. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky. No assurance can be given that our acquisitions will be successful. Further, no assurance can be given that an acquisition will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate an acquisition could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that enhancements to those products will be made in a timely manner or that preacquisition due diligence will identify all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products or the acquired business. Our business is substantially dependent on utility rate structures and government incentive programs that encourage the use of alternative energy sources. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for energy-related technologies would harm our business. 14 Table of Contents We believe that near-term growth of energy-related technologies, including power conversion technology, relies partly on the availability and size of government and economic incentives and grants (including, but not limited to, the U.S. Investment Tax Credit and various state and local incentive programs). These incentive programs could be challenged by utility companies, or for other reasons found to be unconstitutional, and/or could be reduced or discontinued for other reasons. The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives could harm our business. A combination of utility rate structures and government subsidies that encourage the use of alternative energy sources is a primary driver of demand for our products. For example, public utilities are often allowed to collect demand charges on commercial and industrial customers in addition to traditional usage charges. In addition, the federal government and many states encourage the use of alternative energy sources through a combination of direct subsidies and tariff incentives such as net metering for users that use alternative energy sources such as solar power. California also encourages alternative energy technology through its Self-Generation Incentive Program, or SGIP, which offers rebates for businesses and consumers who adopt certain new technologies. Other states have similar incentives and mandates which encourage the adoption of alternative energy sources. Notwithstanding the adoption of other incentive programs, we expect that California will be the most significant market for the sale of our products in the near term. Should California or another state in which we derive a substantial portion of our product revenues in the future change its utility rate structure or eliminate or significantly reduce its incentive programs, demand for our products could be substantially affected, which would adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and operating results. Although we have obtained sufficient funding for the foreseeable future, if we do not obtain increased revenues in 2021 and beyond, we may have to seek additional financing or scale back or cease our activities , which may significantly harm our chances of success. Because we currently operate at a loss, we are dependent on generating additional revenue. The majority of our financing in 2020 was from the sale of our common stock. Subsequently, on October 9, 2020 we obtained approximately $40,000,000 before underwriting and offering expenses in connection with an underwritten public offering. While this financing is expected to carry us through 2021 and beyond, we need to generate cashflows from revenues. As explained in this annual report, these cashflows are needed to increase our sales and marketing efforts, for continued upgrades to our software, and for working capital. We believe that near-term growth of energy-related technologies, including power conversion technology, relies partly on the availability and size of government and economic incentives and grants (including, but not limited to, the U.S. Investment Tax Credit and various state and local incentive programs). These incentive programs could be challenged by utility companies, or for other reasons found to be unconstitutional, and/or could be reduced or discontinued for other reasons. The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Securities Our common stock price may be volatile and could fluctuate widely in price, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; government regulation of our products and services; the establishment of partnerships with other technology companies; intellectual property disputes; additions or departures of key personnel; sales of our common stock our ability to integrate operations, technology, products and services; our ability to execute our business plan; operating results below expectations; loss of any strategic relationship; industry developments; economic and other external factors; and period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. 15 Table of Contents Because we have limited revenues to date, you should consider any one of these factors to be material. Our stock price may fluctuate widely as a result of any of the above. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have the right to issue shares of preferred stock. If we were to issue preferred stock, it is likely to have rights, preferences and privileges that may adversely affect the common stock. We are authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as may be determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in one or more series, and to fix for any series the dividend rights, dissolution or liquidation preferences, redemption prices, conversion rights, voting rights, and other rights, preferences and privileges for the preferred stock. We currently have 1,750,000 shares of our series A preferred stock outstanding, the features of which are contained elsewhere in this annual report. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences and privileges attributable to the preferred stock, could reduce the voting rights and powers of the common stock and the portion of our assets allocated for distribution to common stockholders in a liquidation event, and could also result in dilution in the book value per share of the common stock . The preferred stock could also be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for raising additional capital or discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, to the detriment of the investors in the common stock offered hereby. We cannot assure you that we will not, under certain circumstances, issue shares of our preferred stock. We have not paid dividends in the past and have no immediate plans to pay dividends. We plan to reinvest all of our earnings, to the extent we have earnings, in order to market our products and to cover operating costs and to otherwise become and remain competitive. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends with respect to our securities in the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we would, at any time, generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock as a dividend. Therefore, you should not expect to receive cash dividends on our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us now or in the future issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Provisions in the Nevada Revised Statutes and our Bylaws could make it very difficult for an investor to bring any legal actions against our directors or officers for violations of their fiduciary duties or could require us to pay any amounts incurred by our directors or officers in any such actions. Members of our board of directors and our officers will have no liability for breaches of their fiduciary duty of care as a director or officer, except in limited circumstances, pursuant to provisions in the Nevada Revised Statutes and our Bylaws as authorized by the Nevada Revised Statutes. Specifically, Section 78.138 of the Nevada Revised Statutes provides that a director or officer is not individually liable to the company or its shareholders or creditors for any damages as a result of any act or failure to act in his or her capacity as a director or officer unless it is proven that (1) the directors or officers act or failure to act constituted a breach of his or her fiduciary duties as a director or officer and (2) his or her breach of those duties involved intentional misconduct, fraud or a knowing violation of law. This provision is intended to afford directors and officers protection against and to limit their potential liability for monetary damages resulting from suits alleging a breach of the duty of care by a director or officer. 16 Table of Contents Accordingly, you may be unable to prevail in a legal action against our directors or officers even if they have breached their fiduciary duty of care. In addition, our Bylaws allow us to indemnify our directors and officers from and against any and all costs, charges and expenses resulting from their acting in such capacities with us. This means that if you were able to enforce an action against our directors or officers, in all likelihood, we would be required to pay any expenses they incurred in defending the lawsuit and any judgment or settlement they otherwise would be required to pay. Accordingly, our indemnification obligations could divert needed financial resources and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Risks Related to Our ATL Data Centers Subsidiary On December 9, 2020, we acquired ATL Data Centers LLC (ATL) that, in addition to being a traditional data center operation, operates, currently, 3,471 bitcoin mining units (ASICs), with the Companys intent to significantly increase that number. Government regulation of blockchain and cryptocurrency is being actively considered by the United States federal government via its agencies and regulatory bodies, as well as similar entities in other countries and transnational organizations, such as the European Union. State and local regulations also may apply to our activities and other activities in which we may participate in the future. Other governmental or semi-governmental regulatory bodies have shown an interest in regulating or investigating companies engaged in the blockchain or cryptocurrency business. For instance, the SEC has taken an active role in regulating the use of public offerings of proprietary coins (so-called Initial Coin Offerings) and has made statements and official promulgations as to the status of certain cryptocurrencies as securities subject to regulation by the SEC. Presently, we do not believe any U.S. or State regulatory body has taken any action or position adverse to our main cryptocurrency, bitcoin, with respect to its production, sale, and use as a medium of exchange; however, future changes to existing regulations or entirely new regulations may affect our business in ways it is not presently possible for us to predict with any reasonable degree of reliability. As the regulatory and legal environment evolves, we may become subject to new laws, such as further regulation by the SEC and other agencies, which may affect our mining and other activities. If regulatory changes or interpretations of our activities require our registration as a money services business (MSB) under the regulations promulgated by FinCEN under the authority of the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, or otherwise under state laws, we may incur significant compliance costs, which could be substantial or cost-prohibitive. If we become subject to these regulations, our costs in complying with them may have a material negative effect on our business and the results of our operations. To the extent that the activities of ATL cause it to be deemed an MSB under the regulations promulgated by FinCEN under the authority of the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, we may be required to comply with FinCEN regulations, including those that would mandate us to implement anti-money laundering programs, make certain reports to FinCEN and maintain certain records. To the extent that the activities of ATL cause it to be deemed a money transmitter (MT) or equivalent designation, under state law in any state in which ATL operates, ATL may be required to seek a license or otherwise register with a state regulator and comply with state regulations that may include the implementation of anti-money laundering programs, maintenance of certain records and other operational requirements. Currently, the NYSDFS has finalized its BitLicense framework for businesses that conduct virtual currency business. ATL will continue to monitor for developments in such legislation, guidance or regulations applicable to ATL. Such additional federal or state regulatory obligations may cause ATL to incur extraordinary expenses, possibly affecting its business and financial condition in a material and adverse manner. Furthermore, ATL and its service providers may not be capable of complying with certain federal or state regulatory obligations applicable to MSBs and MTs. If ATL is deemed to be subject to and determines not to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may act to dissolve and liquidate ATL. Any such action may adversely affect business operations and financial condition. Current regulation of the exchange of bitcoins under the CEA by the CFTC is unclear; to the extent we become subject to regulation under the CFTC in connection with our exchange of bitcoin, we may incur additional compliance costs, which may be significant. 17 Table of Contents Current legislation, including the Commodities Exchange Act of 1936, as amended (the CEA) is unclear with respect to the exchange of bitcoins. Changes in the CEA or the regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as interpretations thereof and official promulgations by the Commodities Futures Tradition Commission (CFTC), which oversees the CEA much like the SEC oversees the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, may impact the classification of bitcoins and therefore may subject them to additional regulatory oversight by the CFTC. Presently, bitcoin derivatives are not excluded from the definition of a commodity future by the CFTC. We cannot be certain as to how future regulatory developments will impact the treatment of bitcoins under the law. Bitcoins have been deemed to fall within the definition of a commodity and, we may be required to register and comply with additional regulation under the CEA, including additional periodic report and disclosure standards and requirements. Moreover, we may be required to register as a commodity pool operator or as a commodity pool with the CFTC through the National Futures Association. Such additional registrations may result in extraordinary, non-recurring expenses, thereby materially and adversely impacting an investment in us. If we determine not to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may seek to cease certain of our operations. Any such action may adversely affect an investment in us. As of the date of this annual report, no CFTC orders or rulings are applicable to our business. If we acquire digital securities, even unintentionally, we may violate the Investment Company Act of 1940 and incur potential third-party liabilities. The Company intends to comply with the 1940 Act in all respects. To that end, if holdings of cryptocurrencies are determined to constitute investment securities of a kind that subject the Company to registration and reporting under the 1940 Act, the Company will limit its holdings to less than 40% of its assets. Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the 1940 Act defines investment company to mean any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities, and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of such issuers total assets (exclusive of Government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Section 3(a)(2) of the 1940 Act defines investment securities to include all securities except (A) Government securities, (B) securities issued by employees securities companies, and (C) securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries which (i) are not investment companies and (ii) are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company in section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act. As noted above, the SEC has not stated whether bitcoin and cryptocurrency is an investment security, as defined in the 1940 Act. The further development and acceptance of digital asset networks and other digital assets, which represent a new and rapidly changing industry, are subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to evaluate. The slowing or stopping of the development or acceptance of digital asset systems may adversely affect an investment in us. Digital assets such as bitcoins, that may be used, among other things, to buy and sell goods and services are a new and rapidly evolving industry of which the digital asset networks are prominent, but not unique, parts. The growth of the digital asset industry in general, and the digital asset networks of bitcoin in particular, are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. The factors affecting the further development of the digital asset industry, as well as the digital asset networks, include: continued worldwide growth in the adoption and use of bitcoins and other digital assets; government and quasi-government regulation of bitcoins and other digital assets and their use, or restrictions on or regulation of access to and operation of the digital asset network or similar digital assets systems; the maintenance and development of the open-source software protocol of the bitcoin network and ether network; changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; the availability and popularity of other forms or methods of buying and selling goods and services, including new means of using fiat currencies; general economic conditions and the regulatory environment relating to digital assets; and the impact of regulators focusing on digital assets and digital securities and the costs associated with such regulatory oversight. 18 Table of Contents A decline in the popularity or acceptance of the digital asset networks of bitcoin or ether, or similar digital asset systems, could adversely affect an investment in us. Since there has been limited precedent set for financial accounting or taxation of digital assets other than digital securities, it is unclear how we will be required to account for digital asset transactions and the taxation of our businesses. There is currently no authoritative literature under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States which specifically addresses the accounting for digital assets, including digital currencies. Therefore, by analogy, we intend to record digital assets similar to financial instruments under ASC 825, Financial Instruments, because the economic nature of these digital assets is most closely related to a financial instrument such as an investment in a foreign currency. We believe that the Company will recognize revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned. Our material revenue stream is expected to be related to the mining of digital currencies. We will derive revenue by providing transaction verification services within the digital currency networks of crypto-currencies, such as bitcoin commonly termed crypto-currency mining. In consideration for these services, ee expect to receive digital currency (also known as Coins). Coins are generally recorded as revenue, using the average spot price on the date of receipt. The Coins are recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value. Gains or losses on sale of Coins are recorded in the statement of operations. Expenses associated with running the crypto-currency mining business, such as equipment deprecation, and electricity cost are recorded as cost of revenues. In 2014, the IRS issued guidance in Notice 2014-21 that classified cryptocurrency as property, not currency, for federal income tax purposes. But according to the requirements of FATCA, which requires foreign financial institutions to provide the IRS with information about accounts held by U.S. taxpayers or foreign entities controlled by U.S. taxpayers, cryptocurrency exchanges, in the ordinary course of doing business, are considered financial institutions. On November 30, 2016, a federal judge in the Northern District of California granted an IRS application to serve a John Doe summons on Coinbase Inc., which operates a cryptocurrency wallet and exchange business. The summons asked Coinbase to identify all U.S. customers who transferred convertible cryptocurrency from 2013 to 2015. The IRS is trying to get cryptocurrency owners to report the value of their wallets to the federal government and the IRS is treating cryptocurrency as both property and currency. The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants recommended in a June 2016 letter to the IRS that cryptocurrency accounts be reported in the summary information section of Form 8938, Statement of Specified Foreign Financial Assets, which breaks with the IRSs 2014 guidance that cryptocurrency be treated as property. Property is divided into certain sections within the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) that determine everything from how the property is treated at sale, to how the property is depreciated, to the nature and character of the gain on sale of the asset. For instance, IRC 1231 property (real or depreciable business property held for more than one year) is treated as capital in nature when sold for a profit, but it is treated as ordinary when the property is sold for a loss. IRC 1245 property, on the other hand, is treated as ordinary in nature. IRC 1245 property encompasses most types of property. IRC 1250 property covers everything else. IRC 1250 states that a gain from selling real property that has been depreciated should be taxed as ordinary income, to the extent that the accumulated depreciation exceeds the depreciation calculated using the straight-line method, which is the most basic depreciation method used on an income statement. IRC 1250 bases the amount of tax due on the type of property, such as residential or nonresidential property, and on how many months the property was owned. IRS guidance is silent on which section of the tax code cryptocurrency falls into. For instance, IRC 1031 allows for the like-kind exchange of certain property. IRC 1031 exchanges typically are done with real estate or business assets. However, with the classification of cryptocurrency as property by the IRS, many tax professionals will argue that cryptocurrency can be exchanged using IRC 1031. We believe that all of our digital asset mining activities will be accounted for on the same basis regardless of the form of digital asset. A change in regulatory or financial accounting standards or interpretation by the IRS or accounting standards or the SEC could result in changes in our accounting treatment, taxation and the necessity to restate our financial statements. Such a restatement could negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Digital assets held by us are not subject to FDIC or SIPC protections. We do not hold our digital assets with a banking institution or a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) and, therefore, our digital assets are not subject to the protections enjoyed by depositors with FDIC or SIPC member institutions. Because many of our digital assets are held by digital asset exchanges, we face heightened risks from cybersecurity attacks and financial stability of digital asset exchanges. ATL may transfer their digital asset from its wallet to digital asset exchanges prior to selling them. Digital assets not held in ATL s wallet are subject to the risks encountered by digital asset exchanges including a DDoS Attack or other malicious hacking, a sale of the digital asset exchange, loss of the digital assets by the digital asset exchange and other risks similar to those described herein. ATL does not maintain a custodian agreement with any of the digital asset exchanges that hold the ATL digital assets. These digital asset exchanges do not provide insurance and may lack the resources to protect against hacking and theft. If this were to occur, ATL may be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Currently, we do not own any real estate. Our corporate offices are located at 1185 S. 1800 W, Suite 3, Woods Cross Utah 84087. We are currently on a year-to-year lease agreement that calls for us to make payments of $2,300 per month. We sublease offices located at 8475 S. Eastern Ave., Suite 200, Las Vegas, NV. We are currently on a year-to-year lease agreement that calls for us to make payments of $1,525 per month. We operate our California operations out of leased office space located at 4360 Viewridge Avenue, Suite C, San Diego, California 92123. On May 15, 2018, we executed a 37-month lease agreement, which commenced on July 1, 2018. The agreement calls for us to make payments of $4,057 in base rent per month through July 31, 2021 subject to an annual 3% rent escalation. Future minimum lease payments under the operating leases for the facilities as of September 30, 2020, are as follows: Fiscal year ending September 30, 2021 $43,170 The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of its business. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to litigation, claims, investigations and audits arising from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. CleanSpark, Inc. v. Discover Growth Fund, LLC On August 5, 2020, the Company filed a verified complaint (the Complaint) in the Supreme Court of the State of New York against Discover Growth Fund, LLC (Investor). Among other things, the Complaint seeks: declaratory relief against Investor in response to Investors claim that a Form 8-K filed by the Company in relation to a July 20, 2020 securities purchase agreement needed pre-approval by Investor prior to filing, and injunctive relief in response to conversion notices sent by Investor claiming trigger events and defaults arising out of the failure to obtain the Form 8-K pre-approval. The case was subsequently removed to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, which then determined that the parties agreements required a JAMS arbitrator sitting in the U.S. Virgin Islands to resolve the parties dispute over which of their agreements competing forum selection clauses was controlling, and that therefore the Courts personal jurisdiction over Investor had not been established. 20 Table of Contents While the New York action was pending, Investor filed a demand for arbitration with JAMS in the U.S. Virgin Islands, alleging breach of the Securities Purchase Agreement dated December 31, 2018, and the Purchase Agreement dated April 17, 2019 between Investor and the Company (the Arbitration) and seeking issuance of additional shares of the Company. The Company then filed a response to Investors claims, denying Investors claims and asserting counterclaims against Investor, and also filed for emergency injunctive relief in the Arbitration seeking, among other things, an order enjoining Investor from continuing to pursue certain remedies based on the allegations in the Arbitration between Investor and the Company. On September 21, 2020, the arbitrator granted the Companys motion for emergency interim relief in the Arbitration. The arbitrator issued his interim award on September 22, 2020, (the Interim Award), which restrains Investor from: (i) proceeding with an asset sale or taking any actions in furtherance of the asset sale; (ii) pursuing any remedies in connection with the purported trigger events, conversion notices, notices of default, or sale notices that Investor issued; (iii) claiming or issuing any additional trigger events, conversion notices, delivery notices, notices of default, or sale notices pursuant to the debenture, note, or prior securities purchase agreements between the parties that relate to or arise out of the facts and allegations at issue in the Arbitration; and (iv) pursuing any other remedies that relate to or arise out of the facts and allegations at issue in the Arbitration. Following the Interim Award, the Company completed an underwritten public offering with HC Wainwright (the Offering). In connection with the Offering, the Company provided notice to Investor of the Offering in compliance with a right of first refusal provision (the ROFR) in the parties agreements with the Company. Investor responded to the notice claiming that the notice was not sufficient and the ROFR was not satisfied by the notice and, as a result, proceeding with the Offering constituted a trigger event under the parties prior securities purchase agreements. Investor included the preceding allegations regarding the ROFR in its statement of claim in the Arbitration, and they are now at issue in that proceeding. The Company forcefully denies those claims. Although the ultimate outcome of this matter cannot be determined with certainty, the Company believes that the claims raised by Investor in and related to the Arbitration are completely without merit, and the Company intends to both defend itself vigorously and to vigorously prosecute its counterclaims. Additionally, the Company believes that it has fully complied with its obligations under the right of first refusal and public disclosure review provisions of the parties prior securities purchase agreements. Notwithstanding the merits of Investors claims, however, the Arbitration may distract the Company and cost the Companys management time, effort and expense to defend against the claims and threats made by Investor. Notwithstanding the Companys belief that it has complied with all of its obligations under the parties agreements, no assurance can be given as to the outcome of the Arbitration, and in the event the Company does not prevail in such action, the Company, its business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 21 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Information Our common stock, par value $0.001 per share, is listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol CLSK. Holders of Our Common Stock As of December 14, 2020, we had 223 registered holders of record of our common stock, with others in street name. The holders of common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. Holders of the common stock have no preemptive rights and no right to convert their common stock into any other securities. There are no redemption or sinking fund provisions applicable to the common stock. Dividends There are no restrictions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws that prevent us from declaring dividends. The Nevada Revised Statutes, however, do prohibit us from declaring dividends where after giving effect to the distribution of the dividend: 1. we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business, or; 2. our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed to satisfy the rights of shareholders who have preferential rights superior to those receiving the distribution. We have not declared any dividends and we do not plan to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Repurchases The Company has not made any repurchases of shares or other units of any class of the Companys equity securities during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report. Item 6. Selected Financial Data As a smaller reporting company, we are not required to provide the information required by this Item. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for the years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our discussion includes forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, such as our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors. We use words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Results of Operations for the Year Ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 Revenues We earned $10,028,701 in revenues during the year ended September 30, 2020, as compared with $4,532,782 in revenues for the year ended September 30, 2019. For the year ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 our revenue was derived from of the sale of equipment, design, engineering and services revenue. This income from our Energy segment is the result of contracts to sell switchgear equipment, perform engineering design, and provide software for distributed energy and microgrid systems. For the year ended September 30, 2020, we also generated services revenue from our January 2020 acquisition of p2kLabs, Inc. We hope to generate more significant revenue from customers through the sale and licensing of our Software platforms and services in the future. However, we are unable to estimate with any degree of certainty the amount of future revenues, from existing or future software contracts. Also, we do not anticipate earning significant revenues from our Gasifier business until such time that we have fully developed our technology and are able to market our products. Gross Profit Our cost of revenues were $7,907,849 for the year ended September 30, 2020 resulting in gross profit of $2,120,852, as compared with cost of revenues of $3,861,086 for the year ended September 30, 2019 resulting in gross profits of $671,696. Our cost of revenues in 2020 was mainly the result of contract manufacturing expense, hardware materials, subcontractors and direct labor expense. Contract manufacturing expense increased to $6,704,075 for the year ended September 30, 2020, from $3,220,480 for the year ended 2019. Our manufacturing expense consisted of the cost of contract manufacturing of switchgear equipment. Hardware material expenses increased to $824,665 for the year ended September 30, 2020, from $125,782 for the year ended 2019. Our materials expense for the years ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 consisted mainly of the cost of energy storage. Direct labor decreased to $4,029 for the year ended September 30, 2020, from $86,125 for the year ended 2019. Our direct labor expenses for the year ended September 30, 2020 consisted mainly of allocated payroll costs of employees and consultants. Subcontractor expenses decreased to $325,232 for the year ended September 30, 2020, from $366,523 for the year ended 2019. Our subcontractor expenses for the year ended September 30, 2019 consisted mainly of fees charged by subcontractors for services delivery and installation of energy assets. 23 Table of Contents Operating Expenses We had operating expenses of $17,263,968 for the year ended September 30, 2020, as compared with $17,285,541 for the year ended September 30, 2019. Professional fees increased to $6,521,016 for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $4,829,038 for the same period ended September 30, 2019. Our professional fees expenses for the year ended September 30, 2020 consisted mainly of consulting fees of $607,392 paid to management of the Company, stock-based compensation for consulting of $2,265,194, sales consulting of $278,547, legal fees of $1,472,421, investor relations and external marketing consulting of $725,347, director fees of $442,000, consulting for software and engineering of $82,031, accounting and tax fees of $186,969 and audit and review fees of $135,060. Our professional fees expenses for the year ended September 30, 2019 consisted mainly of consulting fees of $1,032,076 paid to management of the Company, stock-based compensation for consulting of $1,735,693, sales consulting of $202,963, legal fees of $220,163, investor relations consulting of $1,253,903, consulting for public relations of $52,740, consulting for software and engineering of $15,680 and audit and review fees of $141,349. Payroll expenses increased to $6,813,641 for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $1,267,403 for the same period ended September 30, 2019. Our payroll expenses for the year ended September 30, 2020 consisted mainly of salary and wages expense of $4,293,558 and employee and officer stock-based compensation and related bonuses of $2,520,083. Our payroll expenses for the year ended September 30, 2019 consisted mainly of salary and wages expense of $1,010,054 and employee and officer stock-based compensation of $257,349. General and administrative fees increased to $1,093,062 for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $917,298 for the same period ended September 30, 2019. Our general and administrative expenses for the year ended September 30, 2020 consisted mainly of travel expenses of $82,407, rent expenses of $117,223 insurance expenses of $232,043, dues and subscriptions of $362,887, marketing related expenses of $153,091, and bad debt expense of $36,924. Our general and administrative expenses for the year ended September 30, 2019 consisted mainly of travel expenses of $95,151, rent expenses of $76,220 insurance expenses of $123,499, dues and subscriptions of $184,402, marketing related expenses of $95,690, and bad debt expense of $258,255. Product development expense decreased to $163,918 for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $1,453,635 for the same period ended September 30, 2019. Our product development expenses for the year ended September 30, 2020 consisted of amortization of capitalized software of $163,91 8. Our product development expenses for the year ended September 30, 2019 consisted of amortization of capitalized software of $1,453,635. Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $2,672,331 for the year ended September 30, 2020 from $1,902,981 for the same period ended September 30, 2019. No impairment expenses were recorded for the year ended September 30, 2020 and $6,915,186 for the same period ended September 30, 2019. Other Income/Expenses We had net other expenses of $8,203,027 for the year ended September 30, 2020, compared with other expenses of $9,503,087 for the year ended September 30, 2019. Our other income/expenses for the year ended September 30, 2020 consisted mainly of other income of 20,000, unrealized gains on equity security and derivative security of $116,868 and $2,115,269 respectively, and interest expense of $10,449,946. Our other expenses for the year ended September 30, 2019 consisted mainly of loss on settlement of debts of $19,425, and interest expense of $9,483,662. Net Loss Net loss for the year ended September 30, 2020 was $23,346,143 compared to net loss of $26,116,932 for the year ended September 30, 2019. 24 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources For the year ended September 30, 2020, our primary sources of liquidity came from existing cash, and proceeds from a securities purchase agreement. On October 6, 2020 , the Company completed a share offering which resulted in net cash proceeds of approximately $37,000,000. Based on our current plans and business conditions, we believe that existing cash and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements until the Company reaches profitability, and we are not aware of any trends or demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that are reasonably likely to result in a decrease in liquidity of our assets. However, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of our sales and marketing, the timing of new product introductions and the continuing market acceptance of our products and services. If cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may open a revolving line of credit with a bank, or we may have to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities. In the event such financing is needed in the future, there can be no assurance that such financing will be available to us, or, if available, that it will be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. If cash flows from operations became insufficient to continue operations at the current level, and if no additional financing was obtained, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. As of September 30, 2020, we had total current assets of $8,251,858, consisting of cash, accounts receivable, contract assets and prepaid expenses and other current assets, and total assets in the amount of $22,340,063. Our total current liabilities as of September 30, 2019 were $5,382,529. We had a working capital surplus of $2,869,329 as of September 30, 2020. Operating activities used $6,642,734 in cash for the year ended September 30, 2019, as compared with $5,697,989 for the same period ended September 30, 2019. Our net loss of $23,346,143 was the main component of our negative operating cash flow for the year ended September 30, 2020, offset mainly by amortization of debt discount of $9,010,547, depreciation and amortization of $2,672,331, shares issued as interest of $2,050,000, amortization of capitalized software of $163,918 and stock-based compensation of $2,053,232. Our net loss of $26,116,932 was the main component of our negative operating cash flow for the year ended September 30, 2019, offset mainly by impairment expense of $6,915,186, depreciation and amortization of $1,902,981, shares issued as interest of $1,400,000, amortization of capitalized software of $1,453,635 and stock-based compensation of $1,993,043. Cash flows used by investing activities during the year ended September 30, 2020 was $2,383,623, as compared with $673,953 for the year ended September 30, 2019. Our acquisitions of p2kLabs & GridFabric of $1,513,802, investments in the capitalized software of $84,924, purchase of fixed assets of $34,897 and the investment in debt and equity securities of $750,000 were the main components of our negative investing cash flow for the year ended September 30, 2020. Our investment in the capitalized software of $569,042, purchase of fixed assets of $102,761 and the purchase of intangible assets of $2,150 were the main components of our negative investing cash flow for the year ended September 30, 2019. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the year ended September 30, 2020 amounted to $4,313,702, as compared with $13,798,022 for the year ended September 30, 2019. Our positive cash flows from financing activities for the year ended September 30, 2020 consisted of $4,000,000 in proceeds from the sale of common stock, $531,169 in proceeds from promissory notes off-set by repayments of $217,467 on promissory notes. Our positive cash flows from financing activities for the year ended September 30, 2019 consisted of $361,800 in proceeds from the sale of common stock, 14,995,000 in proceeds from convertible notes and $75,030 from related party debts off-set by repayments of $625,344 on promissory notes repayments of $457,820 on related party debt, and repayments of $555,000 on convertible debts. Known Trends or Uncertainties Although we have not seen any significant reduction in revenues to date, we have seen some consolidation in our industry during economic downturns. These consolidations have not had a negative effect on our total sales; however, should consolidations and downsizing in the industry continue to occur, those events could adversely impact our revenues and earnings going forward. As discussed in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the world has been affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Until the pandemic has passed, there remains uncertainty as to the effect of COVID-19 on our business in both the short and long-term. 25 Table of Contents We believe that the need for improved productivity in the research and development activities directed toward developing new products and/or software will continue to result in increasing adoption of energy solution tools such as those we produce. New product and/or software developments in the energy business segment could result in increased revenues and earnings if they are accepted by our markets; however, there can be no assurances that new products and/or software will result in significant improvements to revenues or earnings. For competitive reasons, we do not disclose all of our new product development activities. Our continued quest for acquisitions could result in a significant change to revenues and earnings if one or more such acquisitions are completed. The potential for growth in new markets is uncertain. We will continue to explore these opportunities until such time as we either generate sales or determine that resources would be more efficiently used elsewhere. Inflation We have not been affected materially by inflation during the periods presented, and no material effect is expected in the near future. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Recently issued accounting pronouncements In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, "Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting," which modifies the accounting for share-based payment awards issued to nonemployees to largely align it with the accounting for share-based payment awards issued to employees. ASU 2018-07 is effective for us for annual periods beginning October 1, 2019. The new standard did not have a material impact on the Companys results of operations or cash flows. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customers Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract," which allows for the capitalization of certain implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract. ASU 2018-15 allows for either retrospective adoption or prospective adoption to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. ASU 2018-15 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on our financial position and results of operations. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases" ("ASC 842"). The guidance requires lessees to recognize almost all leases on their balance sheet as a right-of-use asset and a lease liability. For income statement purposes, the FASB retained a dual model, requiring leases to be classified as either operating or finance. Lessor accounting is similar to the current model, but updated to align with certain changes to the lessee model and the new revenue recognition standard. Existing sale-leaseback guidance, including guidance for real estate, is replaced with a new model applicable to both lessees and lessors. ASC 842 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. Upon adoption of this guidance, on October 1, 2019, the Company recorded a Right of use asset and corresponding lease liability of $85,280 and $85,280, respectively, on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. No cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings resulted from adoption of this guidance. The new standard did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows. The Company has evaluated all other recent accounting pronouncements and believes that none of them will have a material effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Critical Accounting Policies In December 2001, the SEC requested that all registrants list their most critical accounting polices in the Management Discussion and Analysis. The SEC indicated that a critical accounting policy is one which is both important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results, and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. 26 Table of Contents Our accounting policies are discussed in detail in the footnotes to our financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2019, however we consider our critical accounting policies to be those related to revenue recognition, long-lived assets, accounts receivable, fair value of financial instruments, cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, warranty liability and stock-based compensation. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2020, there were no off balance sheet arrangements.