Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believes, project, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, strategy, plan, may, will, would, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe-harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are including this statement for purposes of complying with those safe-harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is inherently uncertain. Factors which could have a material adverse affect on our operations and future prospects on a consolidated basis include, but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, legislative/regulatory changes, availability of capital, interest rates, competition, and generally accepted accounting principles. These risks and uncertainties should also be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further information concerning our business, including additional factors that could materially affect our financial results, is included herein and in our other filings with the SEC. Company Overview Stratean Inc. is in the business of acquiring, licensing and marketing patents and technology to create renewable energy from solid waste. The Company plans to turn todays landfill dilemma into tomorrows energy solution. Stratean Inc.'s technology converts any organic material into SynGas. SynGas can be used as clean, renewable, environmentally friendly, warming fuel for power plants, motor vehicles, and as feedstock for the generation of DME (Di-Methyl Ether). DME is the premier energy carrier and offers a range of important benefits: Simple and low cost of production An environmentally-benign propellant and coolant Clean-burning and high energy efficiency Lower transportation and distribution costs Easily converted into other fuels and chemicals The Stratean Gasifier converts the following materials into clean, reusable, renewable, and affordable energy: Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) Municipal sewage sludge Food and cooking waste Petroleum sludge and oily wastes Animal manures Cellulosic and non-cellulosic biomass Energy crops Scrap tires Coal 4 Table of Contents The process involves the grinding, drying, separating, mixing, and then pelletizing of solid waste. These pellets constitute the feedstock for the Gasifier. Gasifying the pellets produces SynGas. SynGas can be converted into multiple forms of energy including motor vehicle and jet fuels. The SynGas produced is so clean that it generally does not require hot-gas cleanup. SynGas is mostly hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Hydrogen and carbon monoxide are primary building blocks for fuels and chemicals. SynGas is a clean burning fuel suitable for use in duel-fuel diesel engines, gas turbines, and steam boilers. The Company believes that the Stratean process will turn the worlds waste problem into an abundant, renewable resource of energy. The Stratean production can be adapted to the specific energy requirements of a given area. Communities are expected to benefit from the countless options created including inexpensive green electric power for homes, clean-burning fuel for garbage trucks, street maintenance equipment, or for resale to other municipalities. Because of the modular nature of the components intrinsic to the process, the plant could provide one energy source, then be converted to provide a different energy product. A Stratean facility could produce additional electric power during the peak demand part of the day and produce fuels during the rest of the day. The Companys market segmentation is vast as the Company expects to apply its technology to anything that is carbon based. The markets for which the Company has focused its efforts include: the electric utility market, municipal waste, processing plants, the refining sector, stranded natural gas fields, and Canadian oil sands. The Company has begun pursuing opportunities to utilize the assets and intellectual properties purchased. The Company aims to further develop these technologies in order to pursue licensing, manufacturing and direct sales agreements for its Gasifier technology. The technologies and prototype will begin undergoing clinical lab testing to further establish its capability of producing large volumes of clean, renewable energy from any carbon compound (Municipal Solid Waste (MSW), Coal, Sewage Sludge) into clean Synthesis Gas. The Companys Gasifier is still under development and a commercially viable Gasifier is not expected to be sellable until the second quarter of 2015. In December of 2014 the Company executed an agreement with Combustion Resources, LLC to independently test the Companys production model prototype. Combustion was engaged to independently test the Gasifer's performance and certify the results of its performance. The Company believes the results of these independent tests will provide the results needed to prove its commercial viability, at which time the Company would begin to actively market its Gasifer units. The Company has not engaged in any significant negotiations to sell its Gasifier products to any major customers. Once completed, the Company intends to distribute its products through advertisements and sales calls on potential customers with demonstrations of how the products work. The failure to acquire customers to generate revenues will negatively affect the Companys financial performance. Results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 Revenues We did not earn any revenues during the three months ending December 31, 2015 and 2015, respectively. We do not anticipate earning significant revenues until such time that we have fully developed our technology and are able to market our products. Operating Expenses The Company had operating expenses of $72,016 for the three months ended December 31, 2015, as compared with $186,194 for the three months ended December 31, 2014. Professional fees decreased to $46,362 for the three months ended December 31, 2015 from $117,772 for the same period ended December 31, 2014. Our professional fees expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2015 consisted mainly of legal and accounting fees and consulting fees paid to an officer of the Company. Research and development fees decreased to $1,458 for the three months ended December 31, 2015 from $50,000 for the same period ended December 31, 2014. Our research and development expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2015 consisted mainly of expenses incurred to during the independent testing of our Gasifier. 5 Table of Contents General and administrative fees decreased to $17,068 for the three months ended December 31, 2015 from $17,782 for the same period ended December 31, 2014. Our general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 consisted mainly of office and rent expenses and general expenses incurred as a result of fundraising efforts. Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $7,128 for the three months ended December 31, 2015 from $640 for the same period ended December 31, 2014. Other Expenses We had other expenses of $nil for the three months ended December 31, 2015, compared with other expenses of $5,144 for the three months ended December 31, 2014. Our other expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2014 consisted of amortization of imputed interest on officer loans and amortization of debt discount. Net Loss We recorded a net loss of $72,016 for the three months ended December 31, 2015, as compared with a net loss of $191,338 for the three months ended December 31, 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2015, we had total current assets of $150,565, consisting of cash and prepaid expenses, and total assets in the amount of $859,631. Our total current liabilities as of December 31, 2015 were $39,688. We had working capital of $110,877 as of December 31, 2015. Operating activities used $66,804 in cash for the three months ended December 31, 2015. Our net loss of $72,016 was the main component of our negative operating cash flow, offset mainly by stock based consulting of $13,836 and depreciation of $7,128. Cash flows used by investing activities during the three months ended December 31, 2015 was $11,719 as a result of the purchase of fixed and intangible assets. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the three months ended December 31, 2015 amounted to $130,000 and consisted of $130,000 in proceeds from our private offering of common stock and warrants. Despite the efforts we have made to raise money and to settle debt, based upon our current financial condition, we do not have sufficient cash to operate our business at the current level for the next twelve months. We intend to fund operations through increased sales and debt and/or equity financing arrangements, which may be insufficient to fund expenditures or other cash requirements. We plan to seek additional financing in a private equity offering to secure funding for operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional funding. If we are not able to secure additional funding, the implementation of our business plan will be impaired. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2015, there were no off balance sheet arrangements. 6 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies In December 2001, the SEC requested that all registrants list their most critical accounting polices in the Management Discussion and Analysis. The SEC indicated that a critical accounting policy is one which is both important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results, and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Use of estimates The process of preparing financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the use of estimates and assumptions regarding certain types of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. Such estimates primarily relate to unsettled transactions and events as of the date of the financial statements. Accordingly, upon settlement, actual results may differ from estimated amounts. Cash and cash equivalents For purposes of the statement of cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments and short-term debt instruments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. There was $140,010 and $88,533 in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2015 and September 30, 2015, respectively. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts reflected in the balance sheets for cash, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate the respective fair values due to the short maturities of these items. The Company does not hold any investments that are available-for-sale. As required by the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topic of the FASB ASC, fair value is measured based on a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows: (Level 1) observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; (Level 2) inputs, other than the quoted prices in active markets, that are observable either directly or indirectly; and (Level 3) unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data, which require the reporting entity to develop its own assumptions. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below: Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities; Level 2: Quoted prices in markets that are not active, or inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability; Level 3: Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (supported by little or no market activity). Revenue recognition The Company recognizes revenue on arrangements in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements and No. 104, Revenue Recognition. In all cases, revenue is recognized only when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed and collectability is reasonably assured. For the periods ended December 31, 2015 and 201 the Company reported revenues of $nil and $nil, respectively. Long-lived Assets In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounts Standard Codification (ASC) ASC 360-10, "Property, Plant and Equipment," the carrying value of intangible assets and other long-lived assets is reviewed on a regular basis for the existence of facts or circumstances that may suggest impairment. The Company recognizes impairment when the sum of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. Impairment losses, if any, are measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its estimated fair value. Stock-based compensation The Company follows the guidelines in FASB Codification Topic ASC 718-10 Compensation-Stock Compensation , which provides investors and other users of financial statements with more complete and neutral financial information, by requiring that the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. That cost will be measured based on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. ASC 718-10 covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements, including share options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights and employee share purchase plans. As of December 31, 2015, the Company has not implemented an employee stock based compensation plan. Non-Employee Stock Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock based compensation awards issued to non-employees for services, as prescribed by ASC 718-10, at either the fair value of the services rendered or the instruments issued in exchange for such services, whichever is more readily determinable, using the measurement date guidelines enumerated in ASC 505-50. The Company may issue compensatory shares for services including, but not limited to, executive, management, accounting, operations, corporate communication, financial and administrative consulting services. 7 Table of Contents Earnings (loss) per share The Company reports earnings (loss) per share in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 260-10 Earnings Per Share , which provides for calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share. Basic earnings per share includes no dilution and is computed by dividing net income or loss available to common stockholders by the weighted average common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution of securities that could share in the earnings of an entity. The calculation of diluted net loss per share gives effect to common stock equivalents; however, potential common shares are excluded if their effect is anti-dilutive.