Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believes, project, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, strategy, plan, may, will, would, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe-harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are including this statement for purposes of complying with those safe-harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is inherently uncertain. Factors which could have a material adverse affect on our operations and future prospects on a consolidated basis include, but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, legislative/regulatory changes, availability of capital, interest rates, competition, and generally accepted accounting principles. These risks and uncertainties should also be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further information concerning our business, including additional factors that could materially affect our financial results, is included herein and in our other filings with the SEC. Company Overview We are in the business of acquiring, licensing and marketing patents and technology to create sustainable energy for our energy customers. Our mission is to lead a revolution in transforming global energy into a clean, affordable, and sustainable infrastructure that promotes socio-economic upliftment. We recently entered into an asset purchase agreement and amendment thereto (the Purchase Agreement), and acquired substantially all of the assets of CleanSpark Holdings, LLC. As a result of the Purchase Agreement and the acquisition of the assets, we have taken over the CleanSpark business as another opportunity in the energy sector, along with our existing Gasifier business. We believe that that synergies created from these businesses will strengthen our overall capacity to obtain financing, increase our customer base, open new distribution channels and increase our competitive strength in the energy market, all to the ultimate benefit of our shareholders. Integral to CleanSparks business is the Flex Power System (the System), which we acquired in the acquisition of the assets. The System provides secure, sustainable energy with significant cost savings for its energy customers. The System allows customers to efficiently manage renewable energy generation, other distributed energy generation technologies including waste to energy, energy storage systems, and consumption. By having autonomous control over the facets of energy usage and energy storage, customers are able to reduce their dependency on utilities, thereby keeping energy costs relatively constant over time. The overall aim is to transform energy consumers into energy producers by supplying power that anticipates their routine instead of interrupting it. Integral to our existing business is the Gasifier. Our technology converts any organic material into SynGas. SynGas can be used as clean, renewable, environmentally friendly, warming fuel for power plants, motor vehicles, and as feedstock for the generation of DME (Di-Methyl Ether). We have focused much our efforts in late 2016 and into 2017 on upgrades to our System software, negotiating contracts to settle outstanding debt obligations, working with existing customers and marketing our business on the CleanSpark side. We plan to continue our focus on the CleanSpark side of the business in 2017, as we continue our efforts to better our technology, service existing customers and market our System to prospective clients. We feel that this focus would provide the best opportunity for our shareholders. 4 Table of Contents Conversely, while we have experienced interest in our Gasifier business, we do not, as of yet, have a working version that is commercially ready for sale. If we are able to generate revenues from the CleanSpark side of the business, sufficient to cover expenses with enough left over, we intend to complete the development of our Gasifier. For now, we are still dependent on financing to move forward with the CleanSpark business and all use of proceeds from our financing efforts, if available, will be used on that side of the business. Results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 Revenues We earned revenues of $83,884 during the three months ending December 31, 2016, as compared with no revenues for the same period ended 2015. Most of our revenue in 2016 was in the form of design income from the CleanSpark side of our business. This income was the result of a contract to perform engineering designs for a microgrid layout. While we benefit from the revenues generated from this type of service, we hope to generate more significant revenue from customers that hire us to construct, operate and maintain our System. We hope to have more news on these efforts in future reports. However, because we only just acquired CleanSpark and given the contractual contingencies with CleanSparks customers and its early stage of operation, we are unable to estimate with any degree of certainty the amount of future revenues, if any, from existing or future contracts. Also, we do not anticipate earning significant revenues from our Gasifier business until such time that we have fully developed our technology and are able to market our products. Operating Expenses We had operating expenses of $845,735 for the three months ended December 31, 2016, as compared with $72,016 for the three months ended December 31, 2015. Professional fees increased to $289,344 for the three months ended December 31, 2016 from $46,362 for the same period ended December 31, 2015. Our professional fees expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2016 consisted mainly of $90,000 for officer consulting fees, $54,885 for consulting on our software, $41,518 in stock-based fees for consulting, sales fees of $23,680, internal management consulting fees of $21,920, audit and review fees of $20,115 and investor relations fees of $19,500. Our professional fees expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2015 consisted mainly of legal and accounting fees and consulting fees paid to an officer of our company. Research and development fees decreased to $368 for the three months ended December 31, 2016 from $1,458 for the same period ended December 31, 2015. Our research and development expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 consisted mainly of expenses incurred during the independent testing of our Gasifier. General and administrative fees increased to $67,265 for the three months ended December 31, 2016 from $17,068 for the same period ended December 31, 2015. Our general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2016 consisted mainly of $17,628 in travel and entertainment expenses, $9,452 in utilities, $6,537 in rent, $6,068 in insurance, $5,150 in training and seminars and $4,303 in office expenses. Our general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2015 consisted mainly of office and rent expenses and general expenses incurred as a result of fundraising efforts. Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $488,758 for the three months ended December 31, 2016 from $7,128 for the same period ended December 31, 2015. Other Expenses We had other expenses of $12,817 for the three months ended December 31, 2016, compared with no other expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2015. Our other expense for the three months ended December 31, 2016 consisted of a loss on the disposal of assets. 5 Table of Contents Net Loss We recorded a net loss of $792,642 for the three months ended December 31, 2016, as compared with a net loss of $72,016 for the three months ended December 31, 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2016, we had total current assets of $367,711, consisting of cash, accounts receivable, a receivable from a shareholder and prepaid expenses, and total assets in the amount of $32,317,084. Our total current liabilities as of December 31, 2016 were $379,605. We had a working capital deficit of $11,894 as of December 31, 2016. Operating activities used $279,663 in cash for the three months ended December 31, 2016. Our net loss of $792,642 was the main component of our negative operating cash flow, offset mainly by depreciation and amortization of $488,758. Cash flows used by investing activities during the three months ended December 31, 2016 was $17,213 as a result of the purchase of fixed and intangible assets, investments in our System and a loss on the disposal of fixed assets, offset by the purchase of fixed assets. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the nine months ended December 31, 2016 amounted to $67,739 and consisted of $68,000 in proceeds from our private offering of securities offset by $2,261 in payments on short-term loans. Despite the efforts we have made to raise money and to settle debt, based upon our current financial condition, we do not have sufficient cash to operate our business at the current level for the next twelve months. We intend to fund operations through increased sales and debt and/or equity financing arrangements, which may be insufficient to fund expenditures or other cash requirements. We plan to seek additional financing in a private equity offering to secure funding for operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional funding. If we are not able to secure additional funding, the implementation of our business plan will be impaired. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2016, there were no off balance sheet arrangements. Going Concern The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We have incurred cumulative net losses of $7,227,482 since our inception and require capital for our contemplated operational and marketing activities to take place. Our ability to raise additional capital through future issuances of common stock is unknown. The obtainment of additional financing, the successful development of our contemplated plan of operations, and our transition, ultimately, to the attainment of profitable operations are necessary for us to continue operations. The ability to successfully resolve these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of these aforementioned uncertainties. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements We do not expect the adoption of any recently issued accounting pronouncements to have a significant impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flow. 6 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies In December 2001, the SEC requested that all registrants list their most critical accounting polices in the Management Discussion and Analysis. The SEC indicated that a critical accounting policy is one which is both important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results, and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our accounting policies are discussed in detail in the footnotes to our financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2016, however we consider our critical accounting policies to be those related to revenue recognition, long-lived assets, accounts receivable, fair value of financial instruments, cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, warranty liability, stock-based compensation, non-employee stock based compensation.