ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help readers understand our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 (Annual Report on Form 10-K). This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. For purposes of this MD&A, the term we and other forms thereof refer to Clear Secure, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company), which includes Alclear Holdings, LLC (Alclear). Forward-Looking Statements This quarterly report includes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws regarding, among other things, our or managements intentions, plans, beliefs, expectations or predictions of future events, which are considered forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on those statements because they are subject to numerous uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, including descriptions of our business strategy. These statements often include words such as may, will, should, believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, estimate, or similar expressions. These statements are based upon assumptions that we have made in light of our experience in the industry, as well as our perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. As you read this quarterly report, you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we believe that these forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, you should be aware that many factors, including those described under the heading Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, could affect our actual financial results or results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements made herein are made only as of the date of this quarterly report. We expressly disclaim any intent, obligation or undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements made herein to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in this quarterly report. Overview CLEAR is an identity company making experiences safer and easier digitally and physically. We make everyday experiences frictionless by connecting your identity to all the things that make you, YOU - transforming the way you live, work, and travel. CLEAR has been delivering secure, friction-free experiences in airports for over 14 years, achieving exceptional user delight and trust with CLEAR Plus, our consumer aviation subscription service. CLEAR Plus enables access to predictable and fast experiences through dedicated entry lanes in airport security checkpoints nationwide. As we continue to innovate on the travel experience, we are proud to offer TSA PreCheck Enrollment Provided by CLEAR offering consumers increased choice in how and where to sign up for this popular trusted traveler program. Our free flagship CLEAR app offers consumer products like Home-to-Gate, which includes RESERVE Powered by CLEAR, our virtual queuing technology that enables customers to prebook a spot in the airport security line so they dont have to wait. CLEAR Verified, our B2B offering, enables our partners to leverage our digital identity technology and reusable member network to facilitate secure and frictionless experiences digitally and physically via our software development kits and application programming interfaces. Key Factors Affecting Performance We believe that our current and future financial growth are dependent upon many factors, including the key factors affecting performance described below. 21 Table of Contents Ability to Grow Total Cumulative Enrollments We are focused on growing Total Cumulative Enrollments and the number of Members that engage with our platform. Our operating results and growth opportunities depend, in part, on our ability to attract new Members, including paying Members (CLEAR Plus Members) as well as new platform Members. We rely on multiple channels to attract new CLEAR Plus Members, including in-airport (our largest channel) which in turn is dependent on the ongoing ability of our Ambassadors to successfully engage with the traveling public. We also rely on numerous digital channels such as paid search and partnerships. We also entered into strategic distribution partnerships with partners such as Delta Air Lines, United Airlines, Alaska Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines and American Express that promote our services to their customers on a discounted or subsidized basis which allows us to efficiently scale membership in CLEAR Plus. In March 2024 we renewed our partnership with American Express for the first of two one year renewal terms. In many cases, we offer limited time free trials to new Members who may convert to paying Members upon the completion of their trial. Our future success is dependent on those channels continuing to drive new Members and our ability to convert free trial Members into paying Members. We believe we will see an acceleration of Total Cumulative Platform Uses relative to Total Cumulative Enrollments over time as our Members use our products across multiple locations and use cases. We believe this dynamic will grow the long-term economic value of our platform by increasing total engagement, expanding our margins and maximizing our revenue. Our future success is dependent upon maintaining and growing our partnerships as well as ensuring our platform remains compelling to Members. Although we have historically grown the number of new Members over time and successfully converted some free trial Members to paying Members, our future success is dependent upon our ongoing ability to do so. Ability to retain CLEAR Plus Members Our ability to execute on our growth strategy is focused, in part, on our ability to retain our existing CLEAR Plus Members. Frequency and recency of usage are the leading indicators of retention, and we must continue to provide frictionless and predictable experiences that our Members will use in their daily lives. We are subject to various factors which may be out of our control and may impact our Member experience, such as checkpoint staffing generally, checkpoint queue configurations and Registered Traveler policies adopted by TSA. For example, the TSA employs varied randomization as part of their normal security processes. If the TSA materially increases randomized reverification rates for CLEAR Plus Members at the checkpoint or makes other adjustments to checkpoint processes, it may negatively impact the Lane experience and therefore may impact our ability to retain CLEAR Plus Members. The value of the CLEAR platform to our Members increases as we add more use cases and partnerships, which in turn drives more frequent usage and increases retention. Historically, CLEAR Plus Members who used CLEAR in both aviation and non-aviation venues renewed at rates materially above those who used CLEAR only in aviation. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in retaining our Members due to any number of factors such as our inability to successfully implement a new product, adoption of our technology, harm to our brand or other factors. Ability to add new partners, retain existing partners and generate new revenue streams Our partners include local airport authorities, airlines and other businesses. Our future success depends on maintaining those relationships, adding new relationships and maintaining favorable business terms. In addition, our growth strategy relies on creating new revenue streams such as per partner, per Member or per use transaction fees. Although we believe our service provides significant value to our partners, our success depends on creating mutually beneficial partnership agreements. We are focused on innovating both our product and our platform to improve our Members experience, improve safety and security and introduce new use cases. We intend to accelerate our pace of innovation to add more features and use cases, to ultimately deliver greater value to our Members and partners. In the near term, we believe that growing our Member base facilitates our ability to add new partnerships and provide additional offerings, which we expect will lead to revenue generation opportunities in the long term. Timing of new partner, product and location launches Our financial performance is dependent in part on new partner, product and location launches. In many cases, we cannot predict the exact timing of those launches. Delays, resulting either from internal or external factors, may have a material effect on our financial results. Timing of expenses; Discretionary investments 22 Table of Contents Although many of our expenses occur in a predictable fashion, certain expenses may fluctuate from period to period due to timing. In addition, management may make discretionary investments when it sees an opportunity to accelerate growth, add a new partner or acquire talent, among other reasons. This may lead to volatility or unpredictability in our expense base and in our profitability. Maintaining strong unit economics Our business model is powered by network effects and has historically been characterized by efficient Member acquisition and high Member retention rates. While we believe our unit economics will remain attractive, this is dependent on our ability to add new Members efficiently and maintain our historically strong retention rates. As we grow our market penetration, the cost to acquire new Members could increase and the experience we deliver to Members could degrade, causing lower retention rates. For our definitions of Lifetime Value and Customer Acquisition Cost and information about how we calculate these metrics, see the section titled BusinessOur Member Acquisition and Retention Strategy in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes to the macro environment Our business is dependent on macroeconomic and other events outside of our control, such as decreased levels of travel or attendance at events, terrorism, civil unrest, political instability, union and other transit related strikes and other general economic conditions. We are also subject to changes in discretionary consumer spending. Taxation and Expenses After the consummation of our IPO, we became subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes with respect to our allocable share of any taxable income of Alclear and will be taxed at the prevailing corporate tax rates. Alclear, is treated as flow-through entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and as such, has generally not been subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level. Accordingly, the historical results of operations and other financial information set forth in the Annual Report on Form 10-K do not include any material provisions for U.S. federal income tax for the periods prior to our IPO. In addition to tax expense, we incur expenses related to our operations, plus payments under the tax receivable agreement (TRA) described below, which we expect to be significant. We intend to cause Alclear to make distributions in an amount sufficient to allow us to pay our tax obligations and operating expenses, including distributions to fund any ordinary course payments under the TRA. Following our IPO, we have and we expect to continue to incur increased amounts of compensation expense, including related to equity awards granted under the 2021 Omnibus Incentive Plan to both existing employees and newly-hired employees, and grants in connection with new hires could be significant. In addition, as a new public company, we are implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. We expect to incur additional expenses related to these steps and, among other things, additional directors and officers liability insurance, director fees, reporting requirements of the SEC, transfer agent fees, hiring additional accounting, legal and administrative personnel, increased auditing and legal fees and similar expenses. Tax Receivable Agreement In connection with the IPO we entered into the TRA with the Alclear Members that provides for the payment by us to the Alclear Members of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize (computed using simplifying assumptions to address the impact of state and local taxes) as a result of (i) any increase in tax basis in Alclears assets resulting from (a) exchanges by the Alclear Members (or their transferees or other assignees) of Alclear Units (along with the corresponding shares of our Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as applicable) for shares of our Class A common stock, $0.00001 par value per share (Class A Common Stock) or Class B common stock, $0.00001 par value per share (Class B Common Stock) as applicable, and purchases of Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Class C common stock, par value $0.00001 per share (Class C Common Stock) or Class D common stock, $0.00001 par value per share (Class D Common Stock and, together with the Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and Class C Common Stock, collectively, Common Stock), as the case may be, from Alclear Members (or their transferees or other assignees) or (b) payments under the TRA, and (ii) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed arising as a result of payments made under the TRA. 23 Table of Contents The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under these agreements, varies depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges by or purchases from the Alclear Members, the price of our Class A Common Stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable and the portion of our payments under the TRA constituting imputed interest. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Company recognized certain exchanges. As of March 31, 2024, the Company did not record a TRA liability as a result of these exchanges. Key Performance Indicators To evaluate performance of the business, we utilize a variety of other non-GAAP financial reporting and performance measures. These key measures include Total Bookings, Total Cumulative Enrollments, Total Cumulative Platform Uses, Annual CLEAR Plus Net Member Retention, Annual CLEAR Plus Gross Dollar Retention, Active CLEAR Plus Members, and Annual CLEAR Plus Member Usage. Total Bookings Total Bookings represent our total revenue plus the change in deferred revenue during the period. Total Bookings in any particular period reflect sales to new and renewing CLEAR Plus subscribers plus any accrued billings to partners. Management believes that Total Bookings is an important measure of the current health and growth of the business and views it as a leading indicator. Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Total Bookings (in millions) $ 180.6 $ 149.7 $ 30.9 21 % Total Bookings increased by $30.9 million, or 21%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by new Member enrollments, pricing increases, and strong retention of existing Members. Total Cumulative Enrollments We define Total Cumulative Enrollments as the number of enrollments since inception as of the end of the period. An Enrollment is defined as any Member who has registered for the CLEAR platform since inception and has a profile (including limited time free trials regardless of conversion to paid membership) net of duplicate and/or purged accounts. This includes CLEAR Plus Members who have completed enrollment with CLEAR and have ever activated a payment method, plus associated family accounts. Management views this metric as an important tool to analyze the efficacy of our growth and marketing initiatives as new Members are potentially a current and leading indicator of revenues. As of March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Total Cumulative Enrollments (in thousands) 21,941 16,202 5,739 35% Total Cumulative Enrollments were 21,941 as of March 31, 2024 and 16,202 as of March 31, 2023, which represented a 35% increase. The year over year increase was driven by CLEAR Verified and CLEAR Plus enrollments. Total Cumulative Platform Uses We define Total Cumulative Platform Uses as the number of individual engagements across CLEAR use cases, including CLEAR Plus, our flagship app and CLEAR Verified, since inception as of the end of the period. Management views this metric as an important tool to analyze the level of engagement of our Member base which can be a leading indicator of future growth, retention and revenue. As of March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Total Cumulative Platform Uses (in thousands) 192,610 141,106 51,504 37% 24 Table of Contents Total Cumulative Platform Uses was 192,610 as of March 31, 2024 and 141,106 as of March 31, 2023, which represented a 37% increase, driven by CLEAR Plus verifications combined with increased contributions from CLEAR Verified uses. Annual CLEAR Plus Net Member Retention We define Annual CLEAR Plus Net Member Retention as one minus the CLEAR Plus net Member churn on a rolling 12 month basis. We define CLEAR Plus net Member churn as total cancellations net of winbacks in the trailing 12 month period divided by the average Active CLEAR Plus Members as of the beginning of each month within the same 12 month period. Winbacks are defined as reactivated Members who have been cancelled for at least 60 days. Active CLEAR Plus Members are defined as Members who have completed enrollment with CLEAR and have activated a payment method for our in-airport CLEAR Plus service, including their registered family plan Members. Active CLEAR Plus Members also include those in a grace period of up to 45 days after a billing failure during which time we attempt to collect updated payment information. Management views this metric as an important tool to analyze the level of engagement of our Member base, which can be a leading indicator of future growth and revenue, as well as an indicator of customer satisfaction and long term business economics. As of March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Annual CLEAR Plus Net Member Retention 84.0% 91.3% (7.3%) Annual CLEAR Plus Net Member Retention was 84.0% as of March 31, 2024 and 91.3% as of March 31, 2023, a year-over year decrease of 730 basis points. The decline was primarily driven by a normalization of winbacks, a larger pool of Members up for renewal year over year, and NextGen Identity+ upgrades, which we prioritized over our typical focus on reactivating Members in the lane. Annual CLEAR Plus Gross Dollar Retention We define Annual CLEAR Plus Gross Dollar Retention as the net bookings collected from a Fixed Cohort of Members during the Current Period as a percentage of the net bookings collected from the same Fixed Cohort during the Prior Period. The Current Period is the 12-month period ending on the reporting date, the Prior Period is the 12-month period ending on the reporting date one year earlier. The Fixed Cohort is defined as all Active CLEAR Plus Members as of the last day of the Prior Period who have activated a payment method for our in-airport CLEAR Plus service, including their registered family plan Members. Active CLEAR Plus Members also include those in a grace period of up to 51 days after a billing failure during which time we attempt to collect updated payment information. Bookings received from a third party as part of a partnership agreement are excluded from both periods; all Members, including those on a free or discounted plan, or who receive a full statement credit, only impact Annual CLEAR Plus Gross Dollar Retention to the extent that they are paying anything out-of-pocket on behalf of themselves or a registered family plan Member. As of March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Annual CLEAR Plus Gross Dollar Retention 89.8% 84.5% 5.3% Annual CLEAR Plus Gross Dollar Retention was 89.8% as of March 31, 2024 and 84.5%as of March 31, 2023, a year-over-year increase of 530 basis points. We view this new metric to be representative of underlying Member retention trends and less dependent upon the underlying growth rate of the total membership base versus Annual CLEAR Plus Net Member Retention. Active CLEAR Plus Members We define Active CLEAR Plus Members as the number of Members with an active CLEAR Plus subscription as of the end of the period. This includes CLEAR Plus Members who have an activated payment method, plus associated family accounts and is inclusive of Members who are in a limited time free trial; it excludes duplicate and/or purged accounts. Management views this as an important tool to measure the growth of its CLEAR Plus product. 25 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2024 2023 Change Active CLEAR Plus Members 6,798 5,711 19% Active CLEAR Plus Members was 6,798 as of March 31, 2024 and 5,711 as of March 31, 2023, which represented a 19% increase, driven by new Members added through new and existing airports as well as partner and organic channels. Annual CLEAR Plus Member Usage We define Annual CLEAR Plus Member Usage as the total number of unique CLEAR Plus airport verifications in the 365 days prior to the end of the period divided by Active CLEAR Plus Members as of the end of the period who have been enrolled for at least 365 days. The numerator includes only verifications of the population in the denominator. Management views this as an important tool to analyze the level of engagement of our active CLEAR Plus Member base. As of March 31, 2024 2023 Change Annual CLEAR Plus Member Usage 7.8x 8.8x (11 %) Annual Usage was 7.8x as of March 31, 2024 and 8.8x as of as of March 31, 2023, which represented a 11% decrease. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results as determined in accordance with GAAP, we disclose Adjusted EBITDA, Free Cash Flow, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income per Common Share, Basic and Diluted as non-GAAP financial measures that management believes provide useful information to investors. These measures are not financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss), net cash provided by (used in) operating activities or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to a similarly titled measure reported by other companies. Our Non-GAAP financial measures are expressed in thousands. We periodically reassess the components of our Non-GAAP adjustments for changes in how we evaluate our performance and changes in how we make financial and operational decisions to ensure the adjustments remain relevant and meaningful. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) adjusted for income taxes, interest (income) expense net, depreciation and amortization, impairment and losses on asset disposals, equity-based compensation expense, mark to market of warrant liabilities, net other income (expense) excluding sublease rental income, acquisition-related costs and changes in fair value of contingent consideration. Adjusted EBITDA is an important financial measure used by management and our board of directors (Board) to evaluate business performance. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2022, we revised our definition of Adjusted EBITDA (Loss) to exclude sublease rental income from our other income (expense) adjustment. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022, we revised our definition of Adjusted EBITDA to include impairment on assets as a separate component. We did not revise prior years' Adjusted EBITDA because there was no impact of a similar nature in the prior period that affects comparability. Adjusted EBITDA margin is adjusted EBITDA, divided by total revenues. Adjusted Net Income We define Adjusted Net Income as net income (loss) attributable to Clear Secure, Inc. adjusted for the net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, equity-based compensation expense, amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related costs, changes in fair value of contingent consideration and the income tax effect of these adjustments. Adjusted Net Income is used in the calculation of Adjusted Net Income per Common Share as defined below. 26 Table of Contents Adjusted Net Income per Common Share We compute Adjusted Net Income per Common Share, Basic as Adjusted Net Income divided by Adjusted Weighted-Average Shares Outstanding for our Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock, Class C Common Stock and Class D Common Stock assuming the exchange of all vested and outstanding common units in Alclear at the end of each period presented. We do not present Adjusted Net Income per Common Share for shares of our Class B Common Stock although they are participating securities based on the assumed conversion of those shares to our Class A Common Stock. We do not present Adjusted Net Income per Common Share on a dilutive basis for periods where we have Adjusted Net Income since we do not assume the conversion of any potentially dilutive equity instruments as the result would be anti-dilutive. In periods where we have Adjusted Net Income, the Company also calculates Adjusted Net Income per Common Share, Diluted based on the effect of potentially dilutive equity instruments for the periods presented using the treasury stock/if-converted method, as applicable. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Net Income per Common Share exclude, to the extent applicable, the tax effected impact of non-cash expenses and other items that are not directly related to our core operations. These items are excluded because they are connected to the Companys long term growth plan and not intended to increase short term revenue in a specific period. Further, to the extent that other companies use similar methods in calculating non-GAAP measures, the provision of supplemental non-GAAP information can allow for a comparison of the Companys relative performance against other companies that also report non-GAAP operating results. Free Cash Flow We define Free Cash Flow as net cash provided by operating activities adjusted for purchases of property and equipment plus the value of share repurchases over fair value. With regards to our CLEAR Plus subscription service, we generally collect cash from our members upfront for annual subscriptions. As a result, when the business is growing Free Cash Flow can be a real time indicator of the current trajectory of the business. See below for reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable GAAP measures. Reconciliation of Net Income (Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA: Three months ended March 31, (In thousands) 2024 2023 Net income (loss) $ 32,088 $ (8,273) Income tax (benefit) expense 1,965 (119) Interest income, net (9,925) (6,392) Other (income) expense, net 5 (38) Depreciation and amortization 6,092 5,167 Impairment on assets 3,633 Equity-based compensation expense 10,665 16,649 Adjusted EBITDA $ 40,890 $ 10,627 Revenue $ 179,049 $ 132,356 Net income Margin 18 % (6) % Adjusted EBITDA Margin 23 % 8 % Reconciliation of Net Income (Loss) to Adjusted Net Income Three months ended March 31, (In thousands) 2024 2023 Net income (loss) attributable to Clear Secure, Inc. $ 18,806 $ (5,224) Reallocation of net loss attributable to non-controlling interests 13,282 (3,049) Net income (loss) 32,088 (8,273) Equity-based compensation expense 10,665 16,649 Amortization of acquired intangibles 871 790 Income tax effect (1,526) (350) Adjusted Net Income $ 42,098 $ 8,816 27 Table of Contents Calculation of Adjusted Weighted-Average Shares Outstanding Basic and Diluted Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 Weighted-average number of shares outstanding, basic for Class A Common Stock 91,831,639 89,614,791 Adjustments Assumed weighted-average conversion of issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock 907,234 907,234 Assumed weighted-average conversion of issued and outstanding Class C Common Stock 31,010,244 36,867,471 Assumed weighted-average conversion of issued and outstanding Class D Common Stock 25,796,690 25,796,690 Adjusted Weighted-Average Number of Shares Outstanding, Basic 149,545,807 153,186,186 Weighted-average impact of unvested RSAs 110,641 Weighted-average impact of unvested RSUs 653,721 896,720 Weighted-average impact of unvested performance based RSUs 20,748 Total incremental shares 674,469 1,007,361 Adjusted Weighted-Average Number of Shares Outstanding, Diluted 150,220,276 154,193,547 Calculation of Adjusted Net Income per Common Share, Basic Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 Adjusted Net Income in thousands $ 42,098 $ 8,816 Adjusted Weighted-Average Number of Shares Outstanding, Basic 149,545,807 153,186,186 Adjusted Net Income per Common Share, Basic $ 0.28 $ 0.06 Calculation of Adjusted Net Income per Common Share, Diluted Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 Adjusted Net Income in thousands $ 42,098 $ 8,816 Adjusted Weighted-Average Number of Shares Outstanding, Diluted 150,220,276 154,193,547 Adjusted Net Income per Common Share, Diluted: $ 0.28 $ 0.06 Summary of Adjusted Net Income per Common Share: Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 Adjusted Net Income per Common Share, Basic $ 0.28 $ 0.06 Adjusted Net Income per Common Share, Diluted $ 0.28 $ 0.06 Reconciliation of Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities to Free Cash Flow: Three months ended March 31, (In thousands) 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 80,349 $ 60,757 Purchases of property and equipment (2,776) (9,410) Free Cash Flow $ 77,573 $ 51,347 Components of Results of Operations Revenue The Company derives substantially all of its revenue from subscriptions to its consumer aviation service, CLEAR Plus. The Company offers certain limited-time free trials, family pricing, and other beneficial pricing through several channels, including airline and credit card partnerships. Membership subscription revenue is presented net of taxes, refunds, credit card chargebacks, and estimated amounts due to a credit card partner. Membership subscription revenue is also reduced by the Companys funded portion of credit card benefits issued to Members through a partnership with a credit card company at the end of the contract period. The Companys funded portion varies based on total number of Members for the contract year. 28 Table of Contents The Company also generates revenue in relation toCLEAR Verified. While contract structure may vary by use case, these deals are typically multi-year, recurring contracts that drive revenue primarily through transaction fees charged either per use or per user over a predefined time period, which sometimes includes tiered pricing. In addition, they may also include one-time implementation fees, licensing fees or incremental transaction fees. Revenues from our partners, and the percentage of our total revenue from these partners, have historically been immaterial. Operating Expenses Cost of revenue share fee The Company operates as a concessionaire in airports and shares a portion of the gross receipts generated from the Companys Members with the host airports and airlines (Revenue Share). The Revenue Share fee is generally prepaid to the host airport in the period collected from the Member. The Revenue Share fee is capitalized and subsequently amortized to operating expense over each Members subscription period. Such prepayments are recorded in Prepaid revenue share fee in the Companys consolidated balance sheets. Cost of revenue share fee also includes a fixed fee component which is expensed in the period incurred and certain overhead related expenses paid to the airports in relation to our Revenue Share arrangements. Cost of direct salaries and benefits Cost of direct salaries and benefits includes employee-related expenses and allocated overhead associated with our field Ambassadors and field managers directly assisting Members and their corresponding travel related costs. Employee-related costs recorded in direct salaries and benefits consist of salaries, taxes, benefits and equity-based compensation and expenses under arrangements related to the use of certain space at airports. Research and development Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee related expenses, allocated overhead costs and costs for contractors related to the Companys development of new products and services and improving existing products and services. Research and development costs are generally expensed as incurred, except for costs incurred in connection with the development of internal-use software that qualify for capitalization as described in our internal-use software policy. Employee related compensation costs consist of salaries, taxes, benefits and equity-based compensation. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of costs of general marketing and promotional activities, advertising fees used to drive subscriber acquisition, commissions, the production costs to create our advertisements, expenses related to employees who manage our sales and marketing efforts, as well as brand and allocated overhead costs. General and administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses for the executive, finance, accounting, legal, and human resources functions. Employee-related expenses consist of salaries, taxes, benefits and equity-based compensation. In addition, general and administrative expenses include non-personnel costs, such as legal, accounting and other professional fees, warrant expense, variable credit card fees, variable mobile enrollment costs, and all other supporting corporate expenses not allocated to other departments including overhead and acquisition-related costs. Interest income, net Interest income, net primarily consists of interest income from our investment holdings and discount accretion on our marketable securities partially offset by issuance costs on our revolving credit facility. Other income, net Other income, net consists of certain non-recurring non-operating items including items such as sublease income, and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. Provision (benefit) for income taxes 29 Table of Contents As a result of the IPO and Reorganization, the Company became the sole managing member of Alclear, which is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and most applicable state and local income tax purposes. As a partnership, Alclear is not subject to U.S. federal and most state and local income taxes. Any taxable income or loss generated by Alclear is passed through to and included in the taxable income or loss of its members, including the Company, based on ownership interest. The Company is subject to federal income taxes in the U.S. and its territories, in addition to state and local income taxes with respect to its allocable share of any taxable income or loss of Alclear, as well as any stand-alone income or loss generated by the Company. The Company is also subject to income taxes in Israel, Argentina, and Mexico. Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 (in millions): Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 179.0 $ 132.4 $ 46.6 35 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenue share fee 24.4 19.6 4.8 24 % Cost of direct salaries and benefits 40.3 33.1 7.2 22 % Research and development 20.1 21.9 (1.8) (8) % Sales and marketing 11.6 9.5 2.1 22 % General and administrative 52.9 58.1 (5.2) (9) % Depreciation and amortization 6.1 5.2 0.9 17 % Operating income (loss) 23.7 (15.1) 38.8 Other income (expense) Interest income, net 9.9 6.4 3.5 55 % Other income, net 0.4 0.3 0.1 N/A Income (loss) before tax 34.1 (8.4) 42.5 Income tax (expense) benefit (2.0) 0.1 (2.1) N/A Net income (loss) $ 32.1 $ (8.3) $ 40.4 $ Information about our operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 is set forth below: Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 179.0 $ 132.4 $ 46.6 35 % Revenue increased by $46.6 million, or 35%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The change was primarily due to an increase in the number of CLEAR Plus Members. Approximately 28% and 30% of paying CLEAR Plus members were on a family plan as of March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Cost of revenue share fee Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Cost of revenue share fee $ 24.4 $ 19.6 $ 4.8 24 % Cost of revenue share fee increased by $4.8 million, or 24%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The change was driven primarily by an increase of $2.4 million, or a 46% increase, in fixed airport fees and $2.4 million, or a 17% increase, in per Member fees. COVID-related concessions reduced Cost of revenue share fee by $1.8 million and $0.6 million in three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. 30 Table of Contents Cost of direct salaries and benefits Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Cost of direct salaries and benefits $ 40.3 $ 33.1 $ 7.2 22 % Cost of direct salaries and benefits expenses increased by $7.2 million, or 22%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The change was primarily due to increased employee compensation costs of $7.1 million caused by select wage increases and higher average employee count. Research and development Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Research and development $ 20.1 $ 21.9 $ (1.8) (8) % Research and development expenses decreased by $1.8 million, or 8%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The change was primarily due to $1.1 million non-cash impairment of certain assets during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and a $0.8 million decrease in employee compensation costs, net of a $0.9 million increase in severance related to the closure of our Israel office. Sales and marketing Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Sales and marketing $ 11.6 $ 9.5 $ 2.1 22 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $2.1 million, or 22%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The change was driven primarily by $1.4 million of higher discretionary marketing expense and $0.4 million increased employee compensation costs. General and administrative Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change General and administrative $ 52.9 $ 58.1 $ (5.2) (9) % General and administrative expenses decreased by $5.2 million, or 9%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The change was primarily driven by a $5.5 million decrease in employee related costs during the three months ended March 31, 2024. In addition, during the three months ended March 31, 2023, we incurred a $1.5 million lease impairment and $1.0 million write-off of certain assets that did not occur in the current period. The decrease was partially offset by a $2.5 million increase in technology costs and $2.0 million higher credit card fees due to higher bookings during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Other income (expense) Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Interest income, net $ 9.9 $ 6.4 $ 3.5 55 % Interest income, net increased by $3.5 million, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. This change was primarily driven by higher interest rates. 31 Table of Contents Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Other income, net $ 0.4 $ 0.3 $ 0.1 N/A Other income (expense), net increased by $0.1 million, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Income tax (expense) benefit Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Income tax (expense) benefit $ (2.0) $ 0.1 $ (2.1) N/A Income tax expense increased by $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The change was primarily due to the U.S. federal and state current taxes not offset by tax attributes (e.g. net operating losses and general business tax credits). Liquidity and Capital Resources Our operations have been financed primarily through equity financing and cash flow from operating activities. As of March 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $64.1 million and marketable securities of $634.3 million. Historically, our principal uses of cash and cash equivalents have included funding our operations, capital expenditures, repurchases of members equity and more recently, business combinations and investments that enhance our strategic positioning. We may also use our cash and cash equivalents to repurchase our Class A Common Stock, pay cash dividends and distribute to members for tax payments. We plan to finance our operations, future stock repurchases, cash dividends and capital expenditures largely through cash generated from the proceeds of our IPO and operations. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided by operations and the availability of additional funds under our Credit Agreement (as defined below) will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months, including payment of dividends, potential stock repurchases, and known commitments and contingencies as discussed below. We expect that future capital expenditure will generally relate to building enhancements to the functionality of our current platform, equipment, leasehold improvements and furniture and fixtures related to office expansion and relocation, and general corporate infrastructure. Share Repurchases On May 13, 2022, the Company's Board authorized a share repurchase program pursuant to which the Company may purchase up to $100 million of its Class A Common Stock. On November 8, 2023 and March 21, 2024, the Company announced that its Board authorized two $100 million increases to its existing Class A Common Stock share repurchase program, resulting in an aggregate remaining authorization on March 21, 2024 of $140.7 million. Under the repurchase program, the Company may purchase shares of its Class A Common Stock on a discretionary basis from time to time through open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions, or other means, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will be determined by management depending on a variety of factors, including stock price, trading volume, market conditions, and other general business considerations. The repurchase program has no expiration date and may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Company repurchased 4,416,759 shares for $84.9 million. The repurchased shares were retired. As of March 31, 2024, $140.7 million remains available under the repurchase authorization. Dividends On May 9, 2023, the Company announced that a special committee of its Board declared a special cash dividend in the amount of $0.20 per share payable on May 25, 2023 to holders of record of the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock as of the close of business on May 18, 2023. The Company funded the payment of the special cash dividend from its pro rata share of tax distributions made by Alclear. 32 Table of Contents On August 2, 2023, the Company announced that our Board adopted a dividend policy (the "Dividend Policy") of paying a quarterly cash dividend to holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. The amount of such quarterly dividends are subject to approval of the actual amount by the Board at the time of such dividend declaration. It is expected that the dividends will be funded by proportionate cash distributions by Alclear to all of its members as of the applicable record date, including holders of non-controlling interests in Alclear and the Company. The declaration of cash dividends in the future is subject to final determination each quarter by the Board based on a number of factors, including the Companys results of operations, cash flows, financial position and capital requirements, as well as general business conditions, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and other factors the Board deems relevant at the time it determines to declare such dividends. On February 15, 2024, the Company announced that its Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.09 per share, payable on March 5, 2024 to holders of record of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock as of the close of business on February 26, 2024. On March 21, 2024, the Company announced the declaration of a special cash dividend in the amount of $0.32 per share payable on April 8, 2024 to holders of record of the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock as of the close of business on April 1, 2024. The Company funded the payment of the special cash dividend with cash held by the Company following its receipt of a pro rata cash distribution made by Alclear to all of its members, including the Company, together with cash held by the Company following its receipt of tax distributions made by Alclear. Tax distributions are required under Alclears Operating Agreement, generally at a tax rate higher than the Company's. As a result, together with the Companys utilization of certain tax attributes, the Company has received cash from tax distributions in excess of what is required to fund its tax liabilities and obligations under its Tax Receivable Agreement. On May 7, 2024, the Company announced that its Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share, payable on June 18, 2024 to holders of record of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock as of the close of business on June 10, 2024 (the Record Date). The Company will fund the dividend from proportionate cash distributions by Alclear to all of its members as of the Record Date, including holders of non-controlling interests in Alclear and the Company. To the extent the quarterly or special dividends exceed the Company's current and accumulated earnings and profits, a portion of such dividends may be deemed a return of capital gain to the holders of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, as applicable. Refer to our risks and uncertainties discussed under the heading "Forward-Looking Statements" and in Part II. Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Credit Agreement On March 31, 2020, we entered into a credit agreement (as amended, restated or otherwise modified, the Credit Agreement) for a three-year $50 million revolving credit facility that expires on March 31, 2023. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement generally bear interest between 1.5% and 2.5% per year and also include interest based on the greater of the prime rate, London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or New York Federal Reserve Bank (NYFRB) rate, plus an applicable margin for specific interest periods. In April 2021, the Company increased the size of the revolving credit facility to $100 million, which matures three years from the date of the increase. The revolving credit facility includes a letter of credit sub-facility. In June 2023, the Company entered into a second amendment to the Credit Agreement to transition from LIBOR to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") as our benchmark interest rate and to extend the maturity date to June 28, 2026. We have the option to repay any borrowings under the Credit Agreement without premium or penalty prior to maturity. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains certain other covenants (none of which relate to financial condition), events of default and other customary provisions. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants, such as financial statement reporting requirements and delivery of borrowing base certificates, as well as customary covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, sell certain assets, guarantee obligations of third parties, declare dividends or make certain distributions, and undergo a merger or consolidation or certain other transactions. As of March 31, 2024, the Company had a remaining borrowing capacity of $68.3, net of standby letters of credit, and had no outstanding debt obligations. As of March 31, 2024, the Company was in compliance with all of the financial and non-financial covenants of the Credit Agreement. Refer to Note 20 within the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details. 33 Table of Contents Cash Flow The following summarizes our cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 (in millions): Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 $ Change Net cash provided by operating activities $ 80.3 $ 60.8 $ 19.5 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 26.2 (50.6) 76.8 Net cash used in financing activities (101.3) (9.1) (92.2) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 5.3 1.1 4.2 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash, beginning of year 62.4 68.9 (6.5) Net exchange differences on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash, end of period $ 67.7 $ 70.0 $ (2.3) Cash flows from operating activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $80.3 million compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $60.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $19.5 million primarily due to higher net income offset by year-over-year unfavorable changes in working capital of $14.3 million and a decrease in non-cash adjustments to net income of $6.5 million. Cash flows from investing activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024 net cash provided by investing activities was $26.2 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $50.6 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $76.8 million. The change was primarily due to an increase in the net sales of marketable securities of $65.4 million and a decrease in capital expenditures of $6.6 million. Cash flows from financing activities For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $101.3 million compared to net cash used in financing activities of $9.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $92.2 million. The change was primarily due to an increase in the amounts used to repurchase Class A Common Stock of $78.4 million and an increase in payments of dividends and distributions of $13.9 million. Commitments and Contingencies We have non-cancelable operating lease arrangements for office space. As of March 31, 2024, we had future minimum payments of $203.9 million, with $15.0 million due within twelve months. We have and continue to enter into agreements with airports for access to floor and office space. As of March 31, 2024, we had future minimum payments of $66.2 million. We have commitments for future marketing expenditures to sports stadiums of $7.4 million as of March 31, 2024. We are subject to certain minimum spend commitments of approximately $1.2 million over the next year under service arrangements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments. Based on 34 Table of Contents this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Refer to Note 2 within the condensed consolidated financial statements for further information. Tax Receivable Agreement The Company entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement (TRA) which generally provides for payment by the Company to the remaining members of Alclear, the TRA Holders, of 85% of the net cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax and franchise tax that the Company actually realizes or is deemed to realize in certain circumstances. The Company will retain the benefit of the remaining 15% of these net cash savings. As of March 31, 2024, the Company did not record a liability from the TRA. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 within the condensed consolidated financial statements, for recently issued accounting pronouncements and their expected impact.