Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include, or could in the future include, those related to revenue recognition, capitalized internal-use software costs, income taxes, other non-income taxes, business combinations, valuation of goodwill, purchased intangible assets and share-based compensation. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. Our focus on delivering a safe, reliable, predictable and frictionless Member experience may not maximize short-term financial results, which may yield results that conflict with the markets expectations and could result in our stock price being negatively affected. We are focused on continually enhancing our Members experience on, and utilization of, our platform. We seek to achieve this objective by expanding our platform into our Members lives by entering into new verticals and airports, which may not necessarily maximize short-term financial results. We frequently make business decisions that may adversely impact our short-term financial results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve our Members experience, which we believe will improve our financial results over the long term. These decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of our stockholders and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our membership growth and the utilization of our platform, as well as our business, financial condition, and operating results, could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure We are a holding company and our principal asset is our equity interests in Alclear, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Alclear to pay dividends, if any, and taxes, make payments under any Tax Receivable Agreement and cover other expenses, including our corporate and other overhead expenses. We are a holding company and our principal asset is our ownership of common units of Alclear (Alclear Units). We have no independent means of generating revenue, and our ability to pay dividends, taxes and operating expenses is dependent upon the financial results and cash flows of Alclear and its subsidiaries and distributions we receive from Alclear. As the sole managing member of Alclear, we intend to cause, and will rely on, Alclear to make distributions to us, entities controlled by our co-founders, Caryn Seidman Becker and Kenneth Cornick, (such entities, the "Founder Post-IPO Members") and the other CLEAR Post-IPO Members, in amounts sufficient to cover dividends, if any, all applicable taxes payable by us, any payments we are obligated to make under the tax receivable agreement entered into between the Company and the CLEAR Post-IPO Members on June 29, 2021 in connection with the reorganization transactions (the 33 Table of Contents Tax Receivable Agreement) and other costs or expenses. However, there can be no assurance that Alclear will generate sufficient cash flow to distribute funds to us or that applicable state law and contractual restrictions, including negative covenants in our debt instruments, will permit such distributions. In addition, when Alclear makes certain distributions to the Company, the other members of Alclear may also be entitled to receive distributions pro rata based on their economic interests in Alclear. To the extent that we need funds or intend to pay dividends and such distributions to us by Alclear are restricted or not possible, under applicable law or regulation, as a result of covenants in our debt agreements or otherwise, we may not be able to pay dividends or obtain such funds on terms acceptable to us or at all and as a result could suffer a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Under Alclears Operating Agreement, we expect Alclear from time to time to make pro rata distributions in cash to its unitholders, including us, the Founder Post-IPO Members and the other CLEAR Post-IPO Members, in amounts intended to cover taxes on our allocable share of the taxable income of Alclear and payments we are obligated to make under the Tax Receivable Agreement. As a result of (i) potential differences in the amount of net taxable income allocable to us and to Alclears other unitholders, (ii) the lower tax rate applicable to corporations than individuals and (iii) the favorable tax benefits that we anticipate from (a) the Companys allocable share of existing tax basis acquired in its IPO, (b) increases in the Companys allocable share of existing tax basis and adjustments to the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Alclear as a result of exchanges by the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) of Alclear Units (along with the corresponding shares of our Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as applicable) for shares of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, as applicable, and purchases of Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as the case may be, from CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) and (c) certain other tax benefits we anticipate receiving under the Tax Receivable Agreement, these cash distributions have been, and we expect that they will continue to be, in amounts that exceed our tax liabilities. Our Board will determine the appropriate uses for any excess cash so accumulated, which may include, among other uses, the payment of obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement and the payment of other expenses. We have no obligation to distribute such cash (or other available cash) to our stockholders. No adjustments to the present exchange ratio of one-to-one for Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Common Stock is made as a result of any cash distribution by us or any retention of cash by us. To the extent we do not distribute such excess cash as dividends on our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock or otherwise take ameliorative actions between Alclear Units and shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock and instead, for example, hold such cash balances, or lend them to Alclear, this may result in shares of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock increasing in value relative to the value of Alclear Units. The holders of Alclear Units may benefit from any value attributable to such cash balances if they acquire shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock in exchange for their Alclear Units, notwithstanding that such holders may previously have participated as holders of Alclear Units in distributions that resulted in such excess cash balances. We have in the past, and may or may not in the future, pay quarterly and special cash dividends to our stockholders, but our ability to do so may be limited by our holding company structure, contractual restrictions and other factors. We approved a quarterly dividend policy in August 2023, and have, at times, declared special cash dividends, to holders of our Class A and Class B Common Stock and may in the future pay cash dividends to our stockholders. However, we are a holding company, with our principal asset being our controlling equity interest in Alclear, and we have no independent means of generating revenue. Accordingly, as the managing member of Alclear, we intend to cause, and will rely on, Alclear to make distributions to its members, including Clear Secure, Inc., to fund our dividends. When Alclear makes such distributions, the other members of Alclear will also be entitled to receive distributions pro rata based on their economic interests in Alclear. Our Board will periodically review the cash generated from our business and the capital expenditures required to finance our growth plans and determine whether to declare dividends to our stockholders. Our Board will take into account general economic and business conditions, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, including restrictions contained in our Credit Agreement, business prospects and other factors that our Board considers relevant. We cannot make any assurances as to the amount of future dividends or that we will declare or pay quarterly dividends, special cash dividends or any future dividends at all. In addition, our Credit Agreement limits the amount of distributions our subsidiaries, including Alclear, can make to us and the purposes for which distributions could be made. Accordingly, we may not be able to pay dividends even if our Board would otherwise deem it appropriate. See Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our organizational structure, including the Tax Receivable Agreement, confers certain benefits upon the CLEAR Post-IPO Members that will not benefit holders of our Class A Common Stock to the same extent that it will benefit the CLEAR Post-IPO Members. 34 Table of Contents Our organizational structure, including the Tax Receivable Agreement, confers certain benefits upon the CLEAR Post-IPO Members that do not benefit the holders of our Class A Common Stock to the same extent that it benefits the CLEAR Post-IPO Members. In connection with the IPO, we entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement with the CLEAR Post-IPO Members that provides for the payment by us to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize (computed using simplifying assumptions to address the impact of state and local taxes) as a result of (i) any increase in tax basis in Alclears assets resulting from (a) exchanges by the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) of Alclear Units (along with the corresponding shares of our Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as applicable) for shares of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, as applicable, and purchases of Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as the case may be, from CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) or (b) payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, and (ii) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed arising as a result of payments made under the Tax Receivable Agreement. Although the Company retains 15% of the amount of such tax benefits, this and other aspects of our organizational structure may adversely impact the trading market for the Class A Common Stock. We are controlled by the Founder Post-IPO Members, whose interests in our business may be different than yours. As of December 31, 2023, the Founder Post-IPO Members collectively control approximately 81.2% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock as a result of its ownership of our Class B Common Stock and our Class D Common Stock, each share of which is entitled to 20 votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. The Founder Post-IPO Members have the ability to control our Company, including the ability to control any action requiring the general approval of our stockholders, including the election of our Board, the adoption of amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws and the approval of any merger or sale of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership and voting power may also delay, defer or even prevent an acquisition by a third party or other change of control of our Company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of the Founder Post-IPO Members, even if such events are in the best interests of minority stockholders. This concentration of voting power with the Founder Post-IPO Members may have a negative impact on the price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, because shares of our Class B Common Stock and Class D Common Stock each have 20 votes per share on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, the Founder Post-IPO Members are able to control our Company until such time that the Founder Post-IPO Members no longer collectively beneficially own a majority of the voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock. Further, even when the Founder Post-IPO Members cease to collectively own shares of our Common Stock representing a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, for so long as the Founder Post-IPO Members continue to collectively own a significant percentage of our stock, they will still be able to significantly influence the composition of our Board and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval through their voting power. The Founder Post-IPO Members interests may not be fully aligned with yours. Because each Founder Post-IPO Member holds part of its economic interest in our business through Alclear, rather than through the public company, they may have conflicting interests with holders of shares of our Class A Common Stock. For example, the Founder Post-IPO Members may have a different tax position from us, which could influence its decisions regarding whether and when we should dispose of assets or incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the Tax Receivable Agreement that we entered into in connection with our IPO, and whether and when we should undergo certain changes of control within the meaning of the Tax Receivable Agreement or terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. We will be required to pay the CLEAR Post-IPO Members for certain tax benefits we may claim, and the amounts we may pay could be significant. Exchanges by the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) of Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as the case may be, for shares of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, respectively, and purchases of Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as the case may be, from CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) are expected to produce favorable tax attributes. These tax attributes would not be available to us in the absence of those transactions. Both the existing and anticipated tax basis adjustments are expected to reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. The Tax Receivable Agreement provides for the payment by us to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize 35 Table of Contents (computed using simplifying assumptions to address the impact of state and local taxes) as a result of (i) any increase in tax basis in Alclears assets resulting from (a) exchanges by the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) of Alclear Units (along with the corresponding shares of our Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as applicable) for shares of our Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, as applicable, and purchases of Alclear Units and corresponding shares of Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as the case may be, from CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or other assignees) or (b) payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, and (ii) tax benefits related to imputed interest deemed arising as a result of payments made under the Tax Receivable Agreement. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges by or purchases from the CLEAR Post-IPO Members, the price of our Class A Common Stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable and the portion of our payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement constituting imputed interest. We expect that the payments we will be required to make under the tax receivable agreement will be substantial. Further, assuming no material changes in relevant tax law and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize all tax benefits that are subject to the tax receivable agreement, we expect that the tax savings associated with all tax attributes described above would aggregate to approximately $459.1 million over 15 years from December 31, 2023, assuming all future redemptions, purchases or exchanges occur on December 31, 2023. Under this scenario, we would be required to pay the Alclear Members 85% of such amount, or approximately $390.3 million, over the 15-year period from December 31, 2023. The actual amounts we will be required to pay may materially differ from these hypothetical amounts, because potential future tax savings that we will be deemed to realize, and the tax receivable agreement payments made by us, will be calculated based in part on the market value of our Class A Common Stock at the time of each redemption or exchange of an Alclear Unit (along with the corresponding share of our Class C Common Stock or Class D Common Stock, as applicable) for cash or a share of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, as applicable and the prevailing applicable federal tax rate (plus the assumed combined state and local tax rate) applicable to us over the life of the tax receivable agreement and will depend on our generating sufficient taxable income to realize the tax benefits that are subject to the tax receivable agreement. Payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are based on the tax reporting positions that we determine, and the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS), or another tax authority may challenge all or part of the tax basis increases or other tax benefits we claim, as well as other related tax positions we take, and a court could sustain such challenge. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge the tax basis increases or other benefits arising under the Tax Receivable Agreement, if the outcome of any such challenge would reasonably be expected to materially affect a recipients payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, then we will not be permitted to settle such challenge without the consent (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of the CLEAR Post-IPO Members. The interests of the CLEAR Post-IPO Members in any such challenge may differ from or conflict with our interests and your interests, and the CLEAR Post-IPO Members may exercise their consent rights relating to any such challenge in a manner adverse to our interests and your interests. We will not be reimbursed for any cash payments previously made to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) under the Tax Receivable Agreement in the event that any tax benefits initially claimed by us and for which payment has been made to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) are subsequently challenged by a taxing authority and are ultimately disallowed. Instead, any excess cash payments made by us to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) will be netted against any future cash payments that we might otherwise be required to make to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) under the terms of the Tax Receivable Agreement. However, we might not determine that we have effectively made an excess cash payment to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or its transferee or assignee) for a number of years following the initial time of such payment and, if any of our tax reporting positions are challenged by a taxing authority, we will not be permitted to reduce any future cash payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement until any such challenge is finally settled or determined. Moreover, the excess cash payments we previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement could be greater than the amount of future cash payments against which we would otherwise be permitted to net such excess. As a result, payments could be made under the Tax Receivable Agreement significantly in excess of any tax savings that we realize in respect of the tax attributes with respect to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) that are the subject of the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, the Tax Receivable Agreement provides that in the case of a change in control of the Company or a material breach of our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement, we are required to make a payment to the CLEAR Post-IPO Members in an amount equal to the present value of future payments (calculated using a discount rate equal to the lesser of 6.5% or London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) (or, in the absence of LIBOR, its successor rate) plus 100 basis points, which may differ from our, or a potential acquirers, then-current cost of capital) under the Tax Receivable Agreement, which payment would be based on certain assumptions, including those relating to our future taxable income. In these situations, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our, or 36 Table of Contents a potential acquirers, liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring, modifying or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control. These provisions of the Tax Receivable Agreement may result in situations where the CLEAR Post-IPO Members have interests that differ from or are in addition to those of our other stockholders. In addition, we could be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement that are substantial and in excess of our, or a potential acquirers, actual cash savings in income tax. Decisions we make in the course of running our business, such as with respect to mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes in control, may influence the timing and amount of payments made under the Tax Receivable Agreement. For example, the earlier disposition of assets following an exchange or purchase of Alclear Units may accelerate payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement and increase the present value of such payments, and the disposition of assets before an exchange or purchase of Alclear Units may increase the tax liability of CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) without giving rise to any rights to receive payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. Such effects may result in differences or conflicts of interest between the interests of CLEAR Post-IPO Members (or their transferees or assignees) and the interests of other stockholders. Finally, because we are a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us. Our debt agreements could restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, which could affect our ability to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid, which could negatively impact our results of operations and could also affect our liquidity in periods in which such payments are made. Our Credit Agreement contains restrictions that limit our flexibility. The covenants in our Credit Agreement, dated as of March 31, 2020 (as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2021, and Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement, dated June 28, 2023, and as may be further amended from time to time, the Credit Agreement), by and among Alclear, the other loan parties thereto, the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., may negatively impact our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Our Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a specified net leverage ratio, which may require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Our Credit Agreement also restricts our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt and guarantee indebtedness; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, our capital stock, or make other restricted payments; prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt; make loans or certain investments; sell certain assets; create liens on certain assets; consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; and enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends. We could incur substantial indebtedness in the future, and the agreements governing any such indebtedness may provide further restrictions on our business. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. These restrictive covenants may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. The failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of a substantial amount of our indebtedness. In the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to refinance our indebtedness or to make any accelerated payments. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, we would not be able to guarantee that the new financing would be on commercially reasonable terms. If we default on our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operation could suffer a material adverse effect. The timing and amount of any repurchases under our stock repurchase program are subject to a number of uncertainties. On May 13, 2022, our Board authorized a stock repurchase program, and in November 2023 our Board authorized an increase in such authorization, whereby we may purchase up to $200 million of the Company's Class A Common Stock on a discretionary basis from time to time through open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions, or other means, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. As of December 31, 2023, $125.4 million remains available under the repurchase authorization. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will be determined by management depending on a variety of factors, including stock price, trading volume, market conditions, and other general business considerations. The repurchase program has no expiration date and may be modified, suspended, or terminated at any time, and we have no obligation to repurchase any amount of our Class A Common Stock under the repurchase program. The Inflation Reduction Act, enacted on August 16, 2022, imposes a 1% excise tax on net repurchases of shares by U.S. corporations whose stock is traded on an established securities market. The excise tax is imposed on repurchases that 37 Table of Contents occur after December 31, 2022. The imposition of the excise tax on repurchases of our shares may increase the cost to us of making repurchases and may cause us to reduce the number of shares repurchased pursuant to the repurchase program. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of distributions on our Class A Common Stock to a stockholder will depend upon our tax attributes and the stockholders tax basis in our stock, which are not necessarily predictable and can change over time. Distributions of cash or other property on our Class A Common Stock, if any, will constitute dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent paid from our current or accumulated earnings and profits (E&P), as determined under U.S. federal income tax principles, and generally be taxable to holders of our Class A Common Stock as ordinary dividend income for U.S. federal income tax purposes (to the extent of our current and accumulated E&P). E&P should not be confused with earnings or net income under GAAP. To the extent thosedistributions exceed our current and accumulated E&P, the distributions will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the holders tax basis in our Class A Common Stock, which will reduce a stockholders tax basis in the Class A Common Stock, and thereafter as capital gain from the sale or exchange of such common stock. Also, if any stockholder sells our Class A Common Stock, the stockholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the stockholders tax basis in such Class A Common Stock. Consequently, such excess distributions will result in a corresponding increase in the amount of gain, or a corresponding decrease in the amount of loss, recognized by the stockholder upon the sale of the Class A Common Stock or subsequent distributions with respect to such stock. Additionally, with regard to U.S. corporate holders of our Class A Common Stock, to the extent that a distribution on our Class A Common Stock exceeds both our current and accumulated E&P and such stockholders tax basis in such shares, such stockholders would be unable to utilize the corporate dividends-received deduction (to the extent it would otherwise be applicable to such stockholder) with respect to the gain resulting from such excess distribution. Further, after we initially report the expected tax characterization of distributions we have paid, the actual characterization, which is not determined with finality until after the end of the tax year in which the distribution occurs, could vary from our expectation with the result that stockholders of our common stock could incur different income tax liabilities than initially expected. Investors in our Class A Common Stock are encouraged to consult their tax advisors as to the tax consequences of receiving distributions on our Class A Common Stock that are not treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock Substantial future sales of shares of our Class A Common Stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A Common Stock into the public market, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) requires us to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and include a report issued by our independent registered public accounting firm based on its audit of the Companys internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may identify weaknesses or deficiencies that we may be unable to remedy before the requisite deadline for those reports. Our ability to comply with the annual internal control report requirements will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting and data systems and controls across the Company. We expect these systems and controls to involve significant expenditures and to become increasingly complex as our business grows. To effectively manage this complexity, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Any weaknesses or deficiencies or any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of these controls, could harm our operating results and cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our business and reduce our stock price. Ineffective disclosure