Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believes, project, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, strategy, plan, may, will, would, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. We intend such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe-harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are including this statement for purposes of complying with those safe-harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is inherently uncertain. Factors which could have a material adverse affect on our operations and future prospects on a consolidated basis include, but are not limited to: changes in economic conditions, legislative/regulatory changes, availability of capital, interest rates, competition, and generally accepted accounting principles. These risks and uncertainties should also be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further information concerning our business, including additional factors that could materially affect our financial results, is included herein and in our other filings with the SEC. Company Overview Stratean Inc. is in the business of acquiring, licensing and marketing patents and technology to create sustainable energy for its energy customers. We recently entered into an asset purchase agreement and amendment thereto (the Purchase Agreement), and acquired substantially all of the assets of CleanSpark Holdings, LLC. As a result of the Purchase Agreement and the acquisition of the assets, we intend to take over the CleanSpark business as another opportunity in the energy sector, along with our existing Gasifier business. We believe that that synergies created from these businesses will strengthen our overall capacity to obtain financing, increase our customer base, open new distribution channels and increase our competitive strength in the energy market, all to the ultimate benefit of our shareholders. Our Flex Power System Business Integral to CleanSparks business is the Flex Power System (the System), which we acquired in the acquisition of the assets. The System provides secure, sustainable energy with significant cost savings for its energy customers. The System allows customers to efficiently manage renewable energy generation, storage and consumption. By having control over the facets of energy usage and storage, customers are able to reduce their dependency on utilities, thereby keeping energy costs relatively constant over time. The overall aim is to transform energy consumers into energy producers by supplying power that anticipates their routine instead of interrupting it. Around the world, the aging grid is becoming unstable and unreliable due to increases in loads and lack of new large-scale generation facilities. This inherent instability is compounded by the push to integrate a growing number and variety of renewable but intermittent energy generators and advanced technologies into outdated electrical systems. Simultaneously, defense installations, industrial complexes, communities, and campuses across the world are turning to virtual power plants and microgrids as a means to decrease their reliance from the grid, utilize cleaner power, and enhance energy security and surety. The convergence of these factors has created a perfect storm in the power supply optimization and energy management arena. Efficiently building and operating the macro- and microgrids of tomorrow, while maximizing the use of sustainable energy to produce affordable, stable, predictable, and reliable power on a large scale, is a significant opportunity that first-movers can leverage to capture a large share of this emerging global industry. 4 Table of Contents The System works with software that uses generation, consumption, and utility data to decide whether to use or store energy based on prioritized end-user benefits, including cost savings and critical loads. The flexible modular design gives users a turn-key solution that is capable of managing energy based on the needs of its user. mPulse software suite The Company is currently completing the development of version 2.0 of mPulse software suite. mPulse provides a full solution with a focus on Scheduling, Automation, Load forecasting and Resource forecasting and allows the user to view site-specific information relevant to each type of system and user. The Company anticipates the financing needed to complete the development of the software will be approximately $30,000 and will be completed during the quarter ending September 30, 2016. MicroGrid Development Projects The Company was awarded a design and engineering contract to develop a Microgrid for a secure facility on Camp Pendleton for the United States Marine Corps. The microgrid solution, arranged in the FractalGrid pattern, will be combined as part of a 10MW power system with plans to expand to true sustainable net-zero in the near future. The Company has begun the first stage which is composed of a $75,000 engineering and design contract. The Contract also allows for the option to engage the Company for a $60,000 optimization and control logic development and a $2,362,472 Construction, integration and commissioning. The Company expects the developer to exercise these options. The Company anticipates the requirement of $500,000 to $750,000 in additional funding to complete this project. As of the date of this filing the Company has completed billings of $40,000 in relation to the Engineering and design contract. This project is an example of the far reaching capabilities of the CleanSPark System and the variety of applications that are available as plug and play solutions. The Company is pursuing additional MicroGrid projects and anticipates the need for additional financing of $750,000 over the next nine months to execute on these proposals. Our Gasifier Business Integral to our existing business is the Gasifier. Recently, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued us Patent No. 9,359,567, protecting our gasification technology and process for using feedstock comprising gaseous fuel. Our technology converts any organic material into SynGas. SynGas can be used as clean, renewable, environmentally friendly, warming fuel for power plants, motor vehicles, and as feedstock for the generation of DME (Di-Methyl Ether). DME is the premier energy carrier and offers a range of important benefits: Simple and low cost of production An environmentally-benign propellant and coolant Clean-burning and high energy efficiency Lower transportation and distribution costs Easily converted into other fuels and chemicals The Stratean Gasifier converts the following materials into clean, reusable, renewable, and affordable energy: Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) Municipal sewage sludge Food and cooking waste Petroleum sludge and oily wastes Animal manures Cellulosic and non-cellulosic biomass Energy crops Scrap tires Coal 5 Table of Contents The process involves the grinding, drying, separating, mixing, and then pelletizing of solid waste. These pellets constitute the feedstock for the Gasifier. Gasifying the pellets produces SynGas. SynGas can be converted into multiple forms of energy including motor vehicle and jet fuels. The SynGas produced is so clean that it generally does not require hot-gas cleanup. SynGas is mostly hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Hydrogen and carbon monoxide are primary building blocks for fuels and chemicals. SynGas is a clean burning fuel suitable for use in duel-fuel diesel engines, gas turbines, and steam boilers. We believe that the Stratean process will turn the worlds waste problem into an abundant, renewable resource of energy. The Stratean production can be adapted to the specific energy requirements of a given area. Communities are expected to benefit from the countless options created including inexpensive green electric power for homes, clean-burning fuel for garbage trucks, street maintenance equipment, or for resale to other municipalities. Because of the modular nature of the components intrinsic to the process, the plant could provide one energy source, then be converted to provide a different energy product. A Stratean facility could produce additional electric power during the peak demand part of the day and produce fuels during the rest of the day. Our market segmentation is vast as we expect to apply our technology to anything that is carbon based. The markets for which we have focused our efforts include: the electric utility market, municipal waste, processing plants, the refining sector, stranded natural gas fields, and Canadian oil sands. We have begun pursuing opportunities to utilize the assets and intellectual properties purchased. We aim to further develop these technologies in order to pursue licensing, manufacturing and direct sales agreements for our Gasifier technology. The technologies and prototype will begin undergoing clinical lab testing to further establish its capability of producing large volumes of clean, renewable energy from any carbon compound (Municipal Solid Waste (MSW), Coal, Sewage Sludge) into clean Synthesis Gas. Our Gasifier is still under development and a commercially viable Gasifier is not expected to be sellable until the first quarter of 2017. In December of 2014, we executed an agreement with Combustion Resources, LLC to independently test our production model prototype. Combustion was engaged to independently test the Gasifer's performance and certify the results of its performance. We believe the results of these independent tests will provide the results needed to prove its commercial viability, at which time we would begin to actively market our Gasifer units. We anticipate Combustions final project report will be completed during the quarter ending December 31, 2016. As of the date of this filing, Combustion Resources has completed the first five stages of testing. Upon completion of the fifth stage an initial project report was published outlining the results and suggested improvements. The Company is preparing the suggested improvements and anticipates that the cost of these improvements will be between $50,000 and $75,000. For completing stage five of testing, we are also required to pay Combustion Resources $50,000 upon a request for payment or an invoice for the second payment; the Company intends to remit payment upon presentation of this such notice. We have not engaged in any significant negotiations to sell our Gasifier products to any major customers. Once completed, we intend to distribute our products through advertisements and sales calls on potential customers with demonstrations of how the products work. We anticipate the need for a project financing partner, which we have not yet identified to support manufacturing and at least $250,000 in financing to support the required sales activities. The failure to acquire customers to generate revenues will negatively affect our financial performance and anticipate the need for at least $750,000 in financing over the next twelve months to execute on our business plans. Results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 Revenues We did not earn any revenues during the three months ending June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We anticipate earning revenues through technology acquisitions beginning in July of 2016. However, because we only just acquired CleanSpark and given the contractual contingencies with CleanSparks customers and its early stage of operation, we are unable to estimate with any degree of certainty the amount of future revenues, if any, from existing contracts. Also, we do not anticipate earning significant revenues from our Gasifier business until such time that we have fully developed our technology and are able to market our products. 6 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The Company had operating expenses of $133,503 for the three months ended June 30, 2016, as compared with $54,776 for the three months ended June 30, 2015. Professional fees decreased to $54,403 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $45,713 for the same period ended June 30, 2015. Our professional fees expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2016 consisted mainly of stock based compensation to members of our board of advisors of $3,500, legal, accounting and investor relations fees of $28,404 and consulting fees of $22,500 paid to an officer of the Company. Research and development fees increased to $50,000 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $74 for the same period ended June 30, 2015. Our research and development expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2016 consisted mainly of expenses incurred to during the independent testing of our Gasifier. General and administrative fees increased to $15,674 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $8,258 for the same period ended June 30, 2015. Our general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 consisted mainly of rent expenses of $2,550, travel expenses of $6,596 and $6,528 in other general expenses incurred for ongoing operations. Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $13,426 for the three months ended June 30, 2016 from $731 for the same period ended June 30, 2015. Other Expenses We had other expenses of $nil for the three months ended June 30, 2016, compared with other expenses of $nil for the three months ended June 30, 2015. Other Income We had other income of $nil for the three months ended June 30, 2016, compared with other income of $nil for the three months ended June 30, 2015. Net Loss We recorded a net loss of $133,503 for the three months ended June 30, 2016, as compared with a net loss of $54,776 for the three months ended June 30, 2015. Results of operations for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 Revenues We did not earn any revenues during the nine months ending June 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our current expectation of revenues is set forth above. Operating Expenses The Company had operating expenses of $396,590 for the nine months ended June 30, 2016, as compared with $3,429,887 for the nine months ended June 30, 2015. Professional fees decreased to $268,560 for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $3,336,369 for the same period ended June 30, 2015. Our professional fees expenses for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 consisted mainly of stock based compensation to members of our board of advisors of $146,742, legal, accounting and investor relations fees of $54,318 and consulting fees of $67,500 paid to an officer of the Company. 7 Table of Contents Research and development fees decreased to $51,826 for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $52,288 for the same period ended June 30, 2015. Our research and development expenses for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 consisted mainly of expenses incurred to during the independent testing of our Gasifier. General and administrative fees decreased to $42,293 for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $39,170 for the same period ended June 30, 2015. Our general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 consisted mainly of rent expenses of $9,830, filing fees of $8,200, travel expenses of $7,814 and $21, 925 in general expenses incurred for ongoing operations. Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $33,911 for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 from $2,060 for the same period ended June 30, 2015. Other Expenses We had other expenses of $nil for the nine months ended June 30, 2016, compared with other expenses of $5,144 for the nine months ended June 30, 2015. Our other expenses for the nine months ended June 30, 2015 consisted of amortization of imputed interest on officer loans and amortization of debt discount. Other Income We had other income of $721 for the nine months ended June 30, 2016, compared with other income of $nil for the nine months ended June 30, 2015. The income of $721 for the nine months ended June 30, 2016 was a result of the sale of office equipment upon relocation of the corporate offices. Net Loss We recorded a net loss of $395,869 for the nine months ended June 30, 2016, as compared with a net loss of $3,435,031 for the nine months ended June 30, 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2016, we had total current assets of $93,766, consisting of cash and prepaid expenses, and total assets in the amount of $781,025. Our total current liabilities as of June 30, 2016 were $61,662. We had working capital of $32,104 as of June 30, 2016. Operating activities used $206,335 in cash for the nine months ended June 30, 2016. Our net loss of $395,869 was the main component of our negative operating cash flow, offset mainly by stock based consulting of $149,126 and depreciation and amortization of $33,267. Cash flows used by investing activities during the nine months ended June 30, 2016 was $15,344 as a result of the purchase of fixed and intangible assets. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the nine months ended June 30, 2016 amounted to $215,000 and consisted of $215,000 in proceeds from our private offering of common stock and warrants. Despite the efforts we have made to raise money and to settle debt, based upon our current financial condition, we do not have sufficient cash to operate our business at the current level for the next twelve months. We intend to fund operations through increased sales and debt and/or equity financing arrangements, which may be insufficient to fund expenditures or other cash requirements. We plan to seek additional financing in a private equity offering to secure funding for operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional funding. If we are not able to secure additional funding, the implementation of our business plan will be impaired. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2016, there were no off balance sheet arrangements. 8 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies In December 2001, the SEC requested that all registrants list their most critical accounting polices in the Management Discussion and Analysis. The SEC indicated that a critical accounting policy is one which is both important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results, and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Use of estimates The process of preparing financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the use of estimates and assumptions regarding certain types of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. Such estimates primarily relate to unsettled transactions and events as of the date of the financial statements. Accordingly, upon settlement, actual results may differ from estimated amounts. Cash and cash equivalents For purposes of the statement of cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments and short-term debt instruments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. There was $81,854 and $88,533 in cash and cash equivalents as of June 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015, respectively. Fair Value of Financial Instruments The carrying amounts reflected in the balance sheets for cash, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate the respective fair values due to the short maturities of these items. The Company does not hold any investments that are available-for-sale. As required by the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topic of the FASB ASC, fair value is measured based on a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows: (Level 1) observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; (Level 2) inputs, other than the quoted prices in active markets, that are observable either directly or indirectly; and (Level 3) unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data, which require the reporting entity to develop its own assumptions. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below: Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities; Level 2: Quoted prices in markets that are not active, or inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability; Level 3: Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (supported by little or no market activity). Revenue recognition The Company recognizes revenue on arrangements in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements and No. 104, Revenue Recognition. In all cases, revenue is recognized only when the price is fixed or determinable, persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service is performed and collectability is reasonably assured. For the periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 the Company reported revenues of $nil and $nil, respectively. Long-lived Assets In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounts Standard Codification (ASC) ASC 360-10, "Property, Plant and Equipment," the carrying value of intangible assets and other long-lived assets is reviewed on a regular basis for the existence of facts or circumstances that may suggest impairment. The Company recognizes impairment when the sum of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. Impairment losses, if any, are measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its estimated fair value. Stock-based compensation The Company follows the guidelines in FASB Codification Topic ASC 718-10 Compensation-Stock Compensation , which provides investors and other users of financial statements with more complete and neutral financial information, by requiring that the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions be recognized in the financial statements. That cost will be measured based on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. ASC 718-10 covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements, including share options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights and employee share purchase plans. As of June 30, 2016, the Company has not implemented an employee stock based compensation plan. 9 Table of Contents Non-Employee Stock Based Compensation The Company accounts for stock based compensation awards issued to non-employees for services, as prescribed by ASC 718-10, at either the fair value of the services rendered or the instruments issued in exchange for such services, whichever is more readily determinable, using the measurement date guidelines enumerated in ASC 505-50. The Company may issue compensatory shares for services including, but not limited to, executive, management, accounting, operations, corporate communication, financial and administrative consulting services. Earnings (loss) per share The Company reports earnings (loss) per share in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 260-10 Earnings Per Share , which provides for calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share. Basic earnings per share includes no dilution and is computed by dividing net income or loss available to common stockholders by the weighted average common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution of securities that could share in the earnings of an entity. The calculation of diluted net loss per share gives effect to common stock equivalents; however, potential common shares are excluded if their effect is anti-dilutive.