Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based upon current plans, expectations, and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those factors discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and in other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our fiscal year end is December 31. Overview Cloudflares mission is to help build a better Internet. We have built a global network that delivers a broad range of services to businesses of all sizes and in all geographiesmaking them more secure, enhancing the performance of their business-critical applications, and eliminating the cost and complexity of managing individual network hardware. Our network serves as a scalable, easy-to-use, unified control plane to deliver security, performance, and reliability across their on-premises, hybrid, cloud, and software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications. Our Business Model Our business model benefits from our ability to serve the needs of all customers ranging from individual developers to the largest enterprises, in a cost-effective manner. Our products are easy to deploy and allow for rapid and efficient onboarding of new customers and expansion of our relationships with our existing customers over time. Given the large customer base we have and the immense amount of Internet traffic that we manage, we are able to negotiate mutually beneficial agreements with Internet service providers (ISPs) that allow us to place our equipment directly in their data centers, which drives down our bandwidth and co-location expenses. This symbiotic relationship that we have with ISPs and the efficiency of our serverless network architecture allows us to introduce new products on our network at low marginal cost. We generate revenue primarily from sales to our customers of subscriptions to access our network and products. We offer a variety of plans to our free and paying customers depending on their required features and functionality. Contracted customers. Our contracted customers, which consist of customers that enter into contracts for our Enterprise subscription plan, have contracts that typically range from one to three years and are typically billed on a monthly or annual basis. Our agreements with contracted customers are tailored and priced to meet their varying needs and requirements. Enterprise subscription plan agreements for our contracted customers generally include a base subscription and a smaller portion based on usage or per seat. Pay-as-you-go customers. For our pay-as-you-go customers, we offer the ability to purchase our products through our website. We make our pay-as-you-go product solutions available in several configurations. For customers securing and accelerating their Internet properties using our website and application services, we offer Pro and Business subscription plans through our website per registered domain, and it is common for customers to purchase subscriptions to cover multiple Internet properties (e.g., domains, websites, application programming interfaces (APIs), and mobile applications). Pay-as-you-go customers can subscribe to more than one solution and purchase add-on products and network functionality we offer to meet their more advanced needs. For pay-as-you-go or contracted customers who need a scalable Zero Trust security solution to secure users and internal resources using our Cloudflare One suite of products, we make these products available on a per seat basis. In addition, for developers building serverless applications, we offer our Cloudflare Workers product to these customers on a usage-based plan that is metered by requests and execution time. Our pay-as-you-go customers typically pay with a credit card on a monthly or annual basis for our Pro and Business subscription plans and on a monthly basis for our other pay-as-you-go plans and add-on products. Key elements of our business model include: Significant investment in ongoing product development. We invest significantly in research and development. Our focus on research and development allows us to continually enhance the capabilities and functionality of our global network with new products and product features that are innovative and powerful 29 Table of contents and can be quickly adopted by our customers and helps us grow our customer base, which allows us to serve a greater portion of the world's Internet traffic. That in turn provides us with greater knowledge and insight into the challenges that Internet users face every day. Investments in our network for growth. We believe that the size, sophistication, and distributed nature of our network provide us with a significant competitive advantage. We intend to continue to make substantial investments in network infrastructure to support the growth of our business. As we invest in our network, we believe the service that we can provide our customers and the insight and knowledge that we can gain will continue to grow. Efficient go-to-market model. We have built an efficient go-to market model that reflects the flexibility and ease of use our products offer to our customers around the world. This has enabled us to acquire new customers as well as to expand within our existing customer base in a rapid, cost-effective manner. In particular, we have invested heavily in our contracted customer sales efforts. New customer acquisition. We believe that anyone that relies on the Internet to deliver products, services, or content or to operate its business can be a Cloudflare customer. As such, we are focused on driving an increased number of customers onto our network and products to support our long-term growth. We continue to invest to build our direct sales force, increase brand awareness, leverage and expand channel partners, and improve the sophistication of our sales operations for contracted customers, particularly large customers. Additionally, through our pay-as-you-go offering, a customer can subscribe to one of our many plans and begin using our network quickly, with minimal technical skill and no professional services. This has allowed us to acquire a large portion of our paying customers very rapidly and at significantly lower customer acquisition costs than our other product offerings. Expansion of our existing customers. We believe that our network enables a large opportunity for growth within our existing customer base given the breadth of products we offer on our infrastructure platform. Our relationships with customers often start with servicing a portion of their overall needs and expand over time as they realize the significant value we deliver. Once a customer has adopted one product on our network, it can easily add additional products. As we add more products and functionality to our network, we see opportunities to drive upsell as customers seek to consolidate onto one infrastructure platform to meet all of their security, performance, and reliability network requirements. We also intend to continue to invest in market awareness of our new products to improve growth within our existing customers. International reach. Our global network, with a presence in more than 320 cities and over 120 countries worldwide, has helped to foster our strong international growth. International markets represented 48% and 47% of our revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and we intend to continue to invest in our international growth as a strategy to expand our customer base around the world. Free customer base. Free customers are an important part of our business. These customers are typically individual developers, early-stage startups, hobbyists, and other users and, like our pay-as-you-go customers, sign up for our service through our website. Our free customers create scale, serve as efficient brand marketing, and help us attract developers, customers, and potential employees. These free customers expose us to diverse traffic, threats, and problems, often allowing us to see potential security, performance, and reliability issues at the earliest stage. This knowledge allows us to improve our products and deliver more effective solutions to our paying customers. In addition, the added scale and diversity of this traffic makes us valuable to a diverse set of global ISPs, improving the breadth and economic terms of our interconnections, bandwidth costs, and co-location expenses. Finally, the enthusiastic engagement of our free customer base represents a "virtual quality assurance" function that allows us to maintain a high rate of product innovation, while ensuring our products are extensively tested in real world environments before they are deployed to our paying customers. Opportunities, Challenges, and Risks We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon many factors, including growing our paying customer base, particularly large customers, expanding our relationships with existing paying customers, developing and successfully launching new products and features, expanding into additional market segments, expanding our base of free customers, and developing and maintaining favorable peering and co-location relationships. Each of these factors presents significant opportunities for us, but also poses material 30 Table of contents challenges and risks that we must successfully address in order to grow our business and improve our operating results. We expect that addressing these challenges and risks will increase our operating expenses significantly over the next several years. The timing of our future profitability, if we achieve profitability at all, will depend upon many variables, including the success of our growth strategies and the timing and size of investments and expenditures that we choose to undertake, as well as market growth and other factors that are not within our control. In addition, we must comply with complex, uncertain, and evolving laws, rules, and regulatory requirements across federal, state, and international jurisdictions. If we fail to successfully address these challenges, risks, and variables, our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects may be adversely affected. Impact of Macroeconomic Developments We are closely monitoring macroeconomic developments and global events, such as the Hamas-Israel and the Russia-Ukraine conflicts and the potential worsening or expansion of those conflicts and other areas of geopolitical tension around the world, and how they may adversely impact our and our customers businesses. Weak economic conditions or significant uncertainty regarding the stability of financial markets related to stock market volatility, inflation, recession, changes in tariffs, trade agreements or governmental fiscal, monetary and tax policies, among others, also could adversely impact our and our customers business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, general tightening in the credit market, lower levels of liquidity, increases in rates of default and bankruptcy, and significant volatility in equity and fixed-income markets could all negatively impact our customers purchasing decisions. Potentially as a result of these various macroeconomic impacts on our customers, we periodically have experienced lengthening of the average sales cycle for certain types of customers and sales (including sales to new customers and expansion sales to existing customers), slowdowns in our pipeline of potential new customers and in the rate of converting sales pipeline opportunities into new sales, increases in average days sales outstanding, higher levels of churn in our paying customer base (which is when any of our paying customers cease to be a paying customer for any reason, including any pay-as-you-go customer converting to a free subscription plan), and lengthening of the timing of payment from some of our customers, all of which may have contributed to a slowdown in our revenue growth over that period (including with respect to new customers). We believe macroeconomic uncertainty could persist through the remainder of 2024. As a result, we expect that some or all of the negative trends described in this paragraph may emerge or recur during future quarters. To the extent challenging macroeconomic conditions persist, we may experience additional adverse effects on our business, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. These effects could include, among others, reduction or increased delays in purchasing decisions by existing and potential new paying customers, additional lengthening of the sales cycle for some of our existing and potential new paying customers, potential customer requests for concessions (including in terms of payment amounts and/or timing and earlier or additional termination rights), potential losses of paying customers as a result of economic distress or bankruptcy (particularly among our small and medium paying customer base), potential reductions in new non-U.S. customers and expansion of sales to existing non-U.S. paying customers as a result of our products, which are substantially all sold in U.S. dollars, becoming relatively more expensive for such customers due to the higher value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, and increased costs for employee compensation and equipment purchases resulting from continued inflationary cost pressures. For further discussion of the challenges and risks we confront related to macroeconomic conditions and geopolitical tension around the world, please refer to Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 31 Table of contents Financial Measures and Key Business Metrics We review a number of financial and operating metrics, including the following non-GAAP financial measures and key metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Gross profit $ 293,564 $ 219,743 Gross margin 78 % 76 % Loss from operations $ (54,550) $ (47,272) Non-GAAP income from operations $ 42,443 $ 19,365 Operating margin (14) % (16) % Non-GAAP operating margin 11 % 7 % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 73,579 $ 36,414 Net cash provided by investing activities $ 96,950 $ 15,567 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 21 $ 1,247 Free cash flow $ 35,607 $ 13,903 Net cash provided by operating activities (as a percentage of revenue) 19 % 13 % Free cash flow margin 9 % 5 % Paying customers(1) 197,138 168,159 Paying customers (> $100,000 Annualized Revenue)(1) 2,878 2,156 (1)Key business metrics are derived on a quarterly basis. Refer to Key Business Metrics section below for further detail. The following table summarizes the revenue by region based on the billing address of customers who use the Companys products: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Amount Percentage of Revenue Amount Percentage of Revenue United States $ 196,463 52 % $ 152,918 53 % Europe, Middle East, and Africa 105,384 28 % 78,331 27 % Asia Pacific 47,651 12 % 39,218 13 % Other 29,104 8 % 19,708 7 % Total $ 378,602 100 % $ 290,175 100 % Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP), we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use the following non-GAAP financial information to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance. However, non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In particular, free cash flow is not a substitute for cash provided by operating activities. Additionally, the utility of free cash flow as a measure of our liquidity is further limited as it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period. In addition, 32 Table of contents other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. Non-GAAP Income (Loss) from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define non-GAAP income (loss) from operations and non-GAAP operating margin as U.S. GAAP loss from operations and U.S. GAAP operating margin, respectively, excluding stock-based compensation expense and its related employer payroll taxes, amortization of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related and other expenses. We exclude stock-based compensation expense, which is a non-cash expense, from certain of our non-GAAP financial measures because we believe that excluding this item provides meaningful supplemental information regarding operational performance. We exclude employer payroll tax expenses related to stock-based compensation, which is a cash expense, from certain of our non-GAAP financial measures, because such expenses are dependent upon the price of our Class A common stock and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of our business. We exclude amortization of acquired intangible assets, which is a non-cash expense, related to business combinations from certain of our non-GAAP financial measures because such expenses are related to business combinations and have no direct correlation to the operation of our business. We exclude acquisition-related and other expenses from certain of our non-GAAP financial measures because such expenses are related to business combinations and have no direct correlation to the operation of our business. Acquisition-related and other expenses can be cash or non-cash expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition, and include third-party transaction costs and compensation expense for key acquired personnel. We also excluded the one-time cash compensation charge incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2024 from certain of our non-GAAP financial measures because it was not attributable to services provided and did not correlate to the ongoing operation of our business. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Loss from operations $ (54,550) $ (47,272) Add: Stock-based compensation expense and related employer payroll taxes 76,727 61,750 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 5,266 4,887 One-time compensation charge 15,000 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 42,443 $ 19,365 Operating margin (14) % (16) % Non-GAAP operating margin (non-GAAP income from operations as a percentage of revenue) 11 % 7 % Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow Margin Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net cash provided by operating activities less cash used for purchases of property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software. Free cash flow margin is calculated as free cash flow divided by revenue. We believe that free cash flow and free cash flow margin are useful indicators of liquidity that provide information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated from our operations that, after the investments in property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software, can be used for strategic initiatives, including investing in our business, and strengthening our financial position. We believe that historical and future trends in free cash flow and free cash flow margin, even if negative, provide useful information about the amount of cash generated by our operating activities that is available (or not available) to be used for strategic initiatives. For example, if free cash flow is negative, we may need to access cash reserves or other sources of capital to invest in strategic initiatives. One limitation of free cash flow and free cash flow margin is 33 Table of contents that they do not reflect our future contractual commitments. Additionally, free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 73,579 $ 36,414 Less: Purchases of property and equipment (32,056) (17,541) Less: Capitalized internal-use software (5,916) (4,970) Free cash flow $ 35,607 $ 13,903 Net cash provided by investing activities $ 96,950 $ 15,567 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 21 $ 1,247 Net cash provided by operating activities (as a percentage of revenue) 19 % 13 % Less: Purchases of property and equipment (as a percentage of revenue) (8) % (6) % Less: Capitalized internal-use software (as a percentage of revenue) (2) % (2) % Free cash flow margin 9 % 5 % Key Business Metrics In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and the non-GAAP measures discussed above, we also review the key business metrics discussed below to assist us in evaluating our business, measuring performance, identifying trends, formulating business plans, and making strategic decisions. There are a number of limitations associated with the use of key business metrics as analytical tools, however, and we do not rely upon any single key business metric to evaluate our business. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled business metrics differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of these business metrics as tools for comparison to such companies. Paying Customers We believe our ability to grow the number of paying customers on our network provides a key indicator of growth of our business and our future business opportunities. We define a paying customer at the end of the quarter as a person or entity who has generated revenue and has an active contract with us or one of our partners during such quarter, excluding (i) customers that were not acquired through ordinary sales channels, (ii) customers using only our registrar product, and (iii) customers using our consumer applications, such as 1.1.1.1 and WARP, which agreements and customers together represent an insignificant amount of our revenue. An entity is defined as a company, a government institution, a non-profit organization, or a distinct business unit of a large company. An active contract is defined as a customer relationship for which we have provided services during the quarter. The number of paying customers was 197,138 and 168,159 as of March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, respectively. Paying Customers (> $100,000 Annualized Revenue) While we continue to grow customers across all sizes, over time, our large customers have contributed an increasing share of our revenue. We view the number of customers with Annualized Revenue greater than $100,000 as indicative of our penetration within large enterprise accounts. To measure Annualized Revenue at the end of a quarter, we take the sum of revenue for each customer in the quarter and multiply that amount by four. For example, if we signed a new customer that generated $1,800 of revenue in a quarter, that customer would account for $7,200 of Annualized Revenue for that year. Our Annualized Revenue calculation excludes (i) agreements that were not entered into through ordinary sales channels, (ii) revenue generated from customers using only our registrar product, and (iii) customers using our consumer applications, such as 1.1.1.1 and WARP, which agreements and customers together represent an insignificant amount of our revenue. Our Annualized Revenue metric also includes any usage charges by a customer during a period, which represents a small portion of our total revenue and may not be recurring. As a result, Annualized Revenue may be higher than actual revenue over the course of the year. The number of paying customers with Annualized Revenue greater than $100,000 was 2,878 and 2,156 as of March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, respectively. 34 Table of contents Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate Our ability to maintain long-term revenue growth and achieve profitability is dependent on our ability to retain and grow revenue generated from our existing paying customers. We believe that we will achieve these objectives by continuing to focus on customer loyalty and adding additional products and functionality to our network. Our dollar-based net retention rate is a key way we measure our performance in these areas. Dollar-based net retention measures our ability to retain and expand recurring revenue from existing customers. To calculate dollar-based net retention for a quarter, we compare the Annualized Revenue from paying customers four quarters prior to the Annualized Revenue from the same set of customers in the most recent quarter. Our dollar-based net retention includes expansion and is net of contraction and attrition, but excludes Annualized Revenue from new customers in the current period. Our dollar-based net retention excludes the benefit of free customers that upgrade to a paid subscription between the prior and current periods, even though this is an important source of incremental growth. We believe this provides a more meaningful representation of our ability to add incremental business from existing paying customers as they renew and expand their contracts. Our dollar-based net retention rates for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 were115%and 117%, respectively. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from sales to our customers of subscriptions to access our network and products, together with related support services. Arrangements with customers generally do not provide the customer with the right to take possession at any time of our software operating our global network. Instead, customers are granted continuous access to our network and products over the contractual period. A time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress because we transfer control evenly over the contractual period. Accordingly, the fixed consideration related to subscription and support revenue is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term beginning on the date that the service is made available to the customer. Usage-based consideration is primarily related to fees charged for our customers use of excess bandwidth when accessing our network in a given period and is recognized as revenue in the period in which the usage occurs. The typical subscription and support term for our contracted customers is one year and subscription and support term lengths range from one to three years. Most of our contracts with contracted customers are non-cancelable over the contractual term. Customers may have the right to terminate their contracts for cause if we fail to perform in accordance with the contractual terms. For our pay-as-you-go customers, subscription and support term contracts are typically monthly. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of expenses that are directly related to providing our service to our paying customers. These expenses include expenses related to operating in co-location facilities, network and bandwidth costs, depreciation of our equipment located in co-location facilities, certificate authority services costs for paying customers, related overhead costs, the amortization of our capitalized internal-use software, and the amortization of acquired developed technologies. Cost of revenue also includes employee-related costs, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for employees whose primary responsibilities relate to supporting our paying customers. Other costs included in cost of revenue include credit card fees related to processing customer transactions and allocated overhead costs. As our customers expand and increase the use of our global network and products driven by additional applications and connected devices, we expect that our cost of revenue will continue to increase due to higher network and bandwidth costs and expenses related to operating in additional co-location facilities. However, we expect to continue to benefit from economies of scale as our customers increase the use of our global network and products. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our global network and products and our customer support organizations as we grow our business. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit is revenue less cost of revenue and gross margin is gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Our gross profit and gross margin have and are expected to continue to fluctuate from period to period due to the timing of 35 Table of contents acquisition of new customers and our renewals with existing customers, expenses related to operating in co-location facilities and network and bandwidth costs to operate and expand our global network, and amortization of costs associated with capitalized internal-use software. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars and our gross margin to remain consistent over the long term, although our gross margin could fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of all of these factors. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs, including salaries, a one-time compensation charge, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, sales commissions that are recognized as expenses over the period of benefit, marketing programs, certificate authority services costs for free customers, travel-related expenses, bandwidth and co-location costs for free customers, and allocated overhead costs. Sales commissions earned by our sales force and the associated payroll taxes that are direct and incremental to the acquisition of channel partner and direct customer contracts are deferred and amortized over an estimated period of benefit of three years for the initial acquisition of a contract and over the contractual term of the renewals for renewal contracts. We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to grow our customer base and increase our brand awareness, including marketing efforts to continue to drive our pay-as-you-go business model. As a result, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future. However, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Research and Development Research and development costs consist primarily of employee-related costs, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense, consulting costs, depreciation of equipment used in research and development, and allocated overhead costs. Research and development costs support our efforts to add new features to our existing offerings and to ensure the security, performance, and reliability of our global network. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our global network and products. We expect our research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for our finance, legal, human resources, and other administrative personnel, professional fees for external legal services, accounting, and other consulting services, bad debt expense, and allocated overhead costs. We expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future to support our growth as well as due to additional costs associated with legal, accounting, compliance, insurance, investor relations, and other costs as a result of operating as a public company. However, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Non-Operating Income (Expense) Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and our investment holdings. Interest Expense 36 Table of contents Interest expense consists primarily of contractual interest expense and amortization of the debt issuance costs on our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 (the 2025 Notes) and 0% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the 2026 Notes, and together with the 2025 Notes, the Notes). Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of gain on sale of property and equipment and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business, as well as state income taxes in the United States. We have a full valuation allowance on our U.S. federal, U.S. state, and U.K. deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated results of operations for the periods presented in dollars and as a percentage of our revenue for those periods: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 378,602 $ 290,175 Cost of revenue(1) 85,038 70,432 Gross profit 293,564 219,743 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing(1) 194,102 137,001 Research and development(1) 87,703 81,539 General and administrative(1) 66,309 48,475 Total operating expenses 348,114 267,015 Loss from operations (54,550) (47,272) Non-operating income (expense): Interest income 21,252 13,487 Interest expense (1,100) (2,126) Other income (expense), net 1,124 (857) Total non-operating income, net 21,276 10,504 Loss before income taxes (33,274) (36,768) Provision for income taxes 2,269 1,314 Net loss $ (35,543) $ (38,082) _______________ 37 Table of contents (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 2,503 $ 1,683 Sales and marketing 20,177 14,820 Research and development 25,716 27,737 General and administrative 21,327 13,161 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 69,723 $ 57,401 Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Percentage of Revenue Data: Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 22 24 Gross margin 78 76 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 51 47 Research and development 23 28 General and administrative 18 17 Total operating expenses 92 92 Loss from operations (14) (16) Non-operating income (expense): Interest income 6 4 Interest expense (1) Other income (expense), net Total non-operating income, net 6 3 Loss before income taxes (8) (13) Provision for income taxes 1 Net loss (9) % (13) % Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Revenue $ 378,602 $ 290,175 $ 88,427 30 % Revenue increased by $88.4 million, or 30%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in revenue was primarily due to the addition of new paying customers, as our number of paying customers increased by 17% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023, as well as the expansion within our existing paying customers, which was reflected by our dollar-based net retention rate of 115% for the three months ended March 31, 2024. 38 Table of contents Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 85,038 $ 70,432 $ 14,606 21 % Gross margin 78 % 76 % Cost of revenue increased by $14.6 million, or 21%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase in the cost of revenue was primarily due to an increase of $5.1 million in employee-related costs, and an increase of $4.0 million of third-party technology services costs. Gross margin did not significantly fluctuate during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 194,102 $ 137,001 $ 57,101 42 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $57.1 million, or 42%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by $38.3 million in increased employee-related costs due to a $15.0 million one-time compensation charge and an 8% increase in headcount in our sales and marketing organization, including an increase of $6.6 million in stock-based compensation expense. The remainder of the increase was primarily due to an increase of $6.0 million in co-location and bandwidth expenses for free customers, an increase of $5.6 million in expenses for marketing programs due to investments in brand awareness advertising, third-party industry events, and digital performance marketing, and an increase of $2.2 million in travel-related expenses. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 87,703 $ 81,539 $ 6,164 8 % Research and development expenses increased by $6.2 million, or 8%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by $6.4 million in increased employee-related costs due to a 12% increase in headcount in our research and development organization. General and Administrative 39 Table of contents Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 66,309 $ 48,475 $ 17,834 37 % General and administrative expenses increased by $17.8 million, or 37%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by $11.6 million in increased employee-related costs due to an 8% increase in headcount in our general and administrative organization, including an increase of $6.9 million in stock-based compensation expense, and an increase of $1.5 million in professional fees for third-party accounting, consulting, and legal services. Non-Operating Income (Expense) Interest Income Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 21,252 $ 13,487 $ 7,765 58 % Interest income increased by $7.8 million, or 58%,for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in interest rates. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest expense $ (1,100) $ (2,126) $ 1,026 (48) % Interest expense did not significantly fluctuate during the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Other Income (Expense), net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 1,124 $ (857) $ 1,981 * ______________ * Not meaningful Other income (expense), net did not significantly fluctuate for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 2,269 $ 1,314 $ 955 73 % 40 Table of contents The net change in income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 is $1.0 million. The income tax expense of $2.3 million and $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, respectively, was primarily related to withholding taxes in the United States and income tax expense from profitable foreign jurisdictions. 41 Table of contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily through net proceeds from the sale of our equity and debt securities, as well as payments received from customers using our global network and products, and we expect to continue to finance our operations using the same sources for the foreseeable future. In May 2020, we issued $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Notes in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, from which we received total proceeds, net of initial purchaser discounts and commissions and debt issuance costs, of $562.5 million. In August 2021, we issued $1,293.8 million aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes in a private offering to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, from which we received total proceeds, net of initial purchaser discounts and commissions and debt issuance costs of $1,274.0 million. Concurrently with the completion of the offering of the 2026 Notes, we also entered into privately-negotiated exchange agreements with certain holders of the 2025 Notes to exchange approximately $400 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Notes for an aggregate of $400.7 million in cash (including accrued interest) and approximately 7.6 million shares of our Class A common stock. In May 2023, we repurchased approximately $123.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Notes for $172.7 million in cash (including accrued interest). Subsequently, in July 2023, we settled conversions of the remaining $35.4 million aggregated principal amount outstanding of the 2025 Notes in a combination of $35.4 million cash and approximately 0.5 million shares of our Class A common stock. As of March 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $254.4 million, including $21.9 million held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of cash and highly liquid money market funds. We also had available-for-sale securities of $1,461.8 million consisting of U.S. treasury securities, commercial paper, and corporate bonds. As of March 31, 2024, our investment portfolio consisted of investment grade securities with an average credit rating of AA. We have generated significant operating losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $1,059.4 million as of March 31, 2024. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and cash flow that may fluctuate between positive and negative for the foreseeable future due to the investments we intend to make in our business, and as a result we may require additional capital resources to execute on our strategic initiatives to grow our business. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale securities will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. For the period beyond the next 12 months, we believe we will be able to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs from our existing cash, cash equivalents, and available-for-sale-securities, the cash flows from our operating activities and, if necessary, proceeds from potential equity or debt financings. Our assessments of the period of time through which our existing financial resources will be adequate to support our operations and our expected sources of capital for the future operation of our business after such period of time are forward-looking statements and involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could vary as a result of, and our near- and long-term future capital requirements will depend on, many factors, including our growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of spending to support our infrastructure and research and development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of new introductions of products or features, the continuing market adoption of our global network and products, and the impact of macroeconomic conditions to our and our customers', vendors', and partners' businesses. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights, and such acquisitions and investments could increase our need for additional capital. We have based our estimates on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Additionally, some of the factors that may influence our operations are not within our control, such as general economic conditions. We may seek, or be required to seek, additional equity or debt financing from time to time in the future. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected. As of March 31, 2024, our material cash requirements include contractual obligations from the 2026 Notes, purchase commitments and lease obligations. Refer to Notes 6, 7, and 8 to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information regarding these material cash requirements. In addition to the contractual obligations described above, as of March 31, 2024, we had $7.4 million recognized as total restricted cash on our condensed consolidated balance sheets which mainly related to irrevocable standby 42 Table of contents letters of credit and bank guarantees that are required under lease agreements and indemnity holdback consideration associated with asset acquisitions. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 73,579 $ 36,414 Net cash provided by investing activities $ 96,950 $ 15,567 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 21 $ 1,247 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $73.6 million, which resulted from a net loss of $35.5 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $121.1 million and net cash outflow of $12.0 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $69.7 million for stock-based compensation expense, $30.1 million for depreciation and amortization expense, $18.1 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, $11.9 million for non-cash operating lease costs, $3.2 million for provision of bad debt, and $1.0 million for amortization of convertible note issuance costs, which were partially offset by $12.7 million for net accretion of discounts. The net cash outflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily the result of a $23.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets related to operating activities, a $22.4 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs due to the addition of new customers, and $14.7 million in payments related to operating lease liabilities, which were partially offset by a $31.9 million decrease in accounts receivable, net, which decreased due to strong cash collection from our customers, a $9.0 million increase in deferred revenue, a $3.8 million increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and a $3.1 million increase in accounts payable related to operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $36.4 million, which resulted from a net loss of $38.1 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $108.5 million and net cash outflow of $34.0 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $57.4 million for stock-based compensation expense, $31.5 million for depreciation and amortization expense, $14.1 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, $11.1 million for non-cash operating lease costs, $1.6 million for provision of bad debt, and $1.2 million for amortization of convertible note issuance costs, which were partially offset by $8.2 million for net accretion of discounts and amortization of premiums on available-for-sale securities. The net cash outflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily the result of a $32.8 million increase in accounts receivable, net, which increased due to our growing customer base and timing of collections from our customers, $19.4 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs due to the addition of new customers, a $8.9 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, and $6.9 million in payments related to operating lease liabilities, which were partially offset by a $21.9 million increase in deferred revenue, a $11.6 million increase in accounts payable, and a $0.7 million increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 of $97.0 million resulted primarily from the maturities of available-for-sale securities of $433.9 million, which were partially offset by the purchases of available-for-sale securities of $299.0 million, capital expenditures of $32.1 million, and capitalization of internal-use software development costs of $5.9 million. Net cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 of $15.6 million resulted primarily from the maturities of available-for-sale securities of $494.0 million and the sales of available-for-sale securities of $20.2 million, which was partially offset by the purchases of available-for-sale securities of $476.2 million, capital expenditures of $17.5 million, and capitalization of internal-use software development costs of $5.0 million. 43 Table of contents Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2024 were not material, and primarily consisted of $4.4 million of proceeds from the exercise of vested stock options, which were partially offset by $4.4 million of payments of tax withholding on RSU settlements. Net cash provided by financing activities of $1.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily due to $3.3 million of proceeds from the exercise of vested stock options, which were partially offset by $2.1 million in payments of tax withholding on RSU settlements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2024, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures. Such estimates include, but are not limited to, allowance for doubtful accounts, deferred contract acquisitions costs, the period of benefit generated from the deferred contract acquisition costs, the capitalization and estimated useful life of internal-use software, valuation of acquired intangible assets, the assessment of recoverability of intangible assets and their estimated useful lives, useful lives of property and equipment, the determination of the incremental borrowing rate used for operating lease liabilities, the valuation and recognition of stock-based compensation awards, uncertain tax positions, and the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities. None of these estimates are critical accounting estimates for the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Due in part to the Hamas-Israel and Russia-Ukraine conflicts, and the potential worsening and expansion of such conflicts, and other geopolitical and macroeconomic conditions, there is ongoing uncertainty and significant disruption in the global economy and financial markets. We are not aware of any specific event or circumstance that would require an update to our estimates or assumptions or a revision of the carrying value of assets or liabilities as of May 2, 2024, the date of issuance of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These estimates and assumptions may change in the future, however, as new events occur and additional information is obtained. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. There have been no significant changes to these policies for the three months ended March 31, 2024, except as noted below. Change in Accounting Estimate In January 2024, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers-network infrastructure, resulting in a change in the estimated useful lives of our servers-network infrastructure from four years to five years. This change in accounting estimate was effective beginning fiscal year 2024. Based on the carrying value of assets in service as of December 31, 2023, the change resulted in a reduction of depreciation expense of $6.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, recorded primarily in cost of revenue. We expect this change in accounting estimate to result in a reduction of depreciation expense of approximately $20 million for the full fiscal year 2024 for assets in service as of December 31, 2023. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures, which requires an enhanced disclosure of significant segment expenses on an annual and interim basis. The ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2023, and for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2024, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of the new standard. 44 Table of contents In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures, which requires an entity, on an annual basis, to disclose additional income tax information, primarily related to the rate reconciliation and income taxes paid. The amendment in the ASU is intended to enhance the transparency and decision usefulness of income tax disclosures. The ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024. We are currently evaluating the impact of the new standard.