Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Our forward-looking statements generally relate to: Our future revenues, future operating expenses, anticipated use of cash and whether and how long our existing cash and cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to fund our operations; the market size and market acceptance of our products; the status of our product development programs; the timing, costs and benefits associated with our restructuring plan; and the effect of new accounting pronouncements and future health care, tax and other legislation. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. These uncertainties include factors that affect all businesses as well as matters specific to us. Some of the factors known to us that could cause our actual results to differ materially from what we have anticipated in our forward-looking statements are described under the heading Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors below. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement that speaks only as of the date made and to recognize that forward-looking statements are predictions of future results, which may not occur as anticipated. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements and from historical results, due to the risks and uncertainties described under the heading Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors below, as well as others that we may consider immaterial or do not anticipate at this time. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we do not know whether our expectations will prove correct. Our expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those described below under the heading Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors . The risks and uncertainties described under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors below are not exclusive and further information concerning us and our business, including factors that potentially could materially affect our operating results or financial condition, may emerge from time to time. We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting such forward-looking statements. We advise you, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect our financial results, our accounting, and the accuracy of the statements we make in this Form 10-K. For example, we make statements about our belief in the efficacy of our product, the impact of regulatory and reimbursement approvals on our products and revenues, the attributes of our products versus those of our competitors, the adequacy of our resources, including cash, available to us, and other matters all of which represent our expectations or beliefs about future events. Our actual results may vary from these expectations because of a number of factors that affect our business, the most important of which include the following: Risks Related to the Pending Acquisition of the Company by Laborie Labories obligation to consummate the Merger is subject to certain conditions, which if not satisfied may prevent, delay or jeopardize the consummation of the Merger, result in additional expenditures of money and resources, and/or reduce the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Labories obligation to consummate the Merger is subject to certain closing conditions. These closing conditions include, among others, the following: (i) the Companys stockholders shall have validly tendered and not validly withdrawn in the Offer the number of Shares which, when added to the Shares then owned by Merger Sub, would represent one Share more than one half of all Shares outstanding immediately prior to the Offer Acceptance Time ; (ii) the absence of a Company Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the Merger Agreement); (iii) the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended; and (iv) those other conditions set forth in Annex I to the Merger Agreement. We cannot predict whether and when these conditions will be satisfied, and no assurance can be given that required closing conditions will be satisfied. In the event that the Merger is not consummated, we will have spent considerable time and resources, and incurred substantial costs, including costs related to the Merger, many of which must be paid even if the Merger are not completed. If the Merger is not consummated, our reputation in our industry and in the investment community could be damaged and, as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that restrict our ability to pursue alternatives to the Merger and, in specified circumstances, could require us to pay a termination fee of $8.365 million. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, from directly or indirectly, soliciting, initiating, knowingly encouraging or knowingly facilitating the submission or an announcement of any competing proposal or the making of any inquiry, offer or proposal that would reasonably be expected to lead to any competing proposal from another person. Furthermore, in connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement under certain specified circumstances related to a change in the recommendation of the Company Board or the entry into an agreement for a superior proposal, the Company may be required to pay a termination fee of $8,365,000, which is equal to 3.5% of the aggregate equity value represented by the transaction. These provisions could discourage a third party that may have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of our business from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if such third party were prepared to enter into a transaction that would be more favorable to us and our stockholders than the Merger. These provisions also might result in a potential third-party acquirer proposing to pay a lower price to our stockholders than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the $8.365 million termination fee that may become payable in certain circumstances. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and we determine to seek another business combination, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with another party on terms comparable to, or better than, the terms of the proposed Merger. 18 Table of Contents Failure to complete the Merger within the expected time frame, or at all, could adversely affect our stock price, financial results and our future business and operations. In the event that the Merger is not completed or delayed our business may be harmed because: matters related to the proposed Merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources thereby diverting managements and our employees attention from our day-to-day business, including servicing existing customers, attracting new customers and developing new products and strategies; our relationships with customers, distributors, collaborative partners, suppliers and patients may be harmed as a result of the proposed Merger and result in uncertainties with respect to our products, employees and business; our financial performance may be negatively impacted by disruptions in our sales and marketing, research and development, and other business activities; we may fail to retain key employees who have sought and obtained different employment in anticipation of the Merger being completed; we have agreed to restrict certain of our activities pending the consummation of the Merger that may negatively affect our ability to execute on our business strategies and attain our financial goals; and certain significant costs related to the proposed Merger, such as legal, advisor and accounting fees and other expenses, are payable by us whether or not the proposed Merger are completed, including a termination fee under certain circumstances. If the Merger is not consummated, the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects a positive market assumption that the Merger will be completed. Our stock price may also fluctuate significantly based on announcements by Laborie and other third parties or us regarding the Merger, or based on market perceptions of the likelihood of us completing the Merger. Such announcements may lead to perceptions in the market that the Merger may not be completed, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. In addition, if the Merger Agreement is terminated our stock price could decline significantly. Any of these events could harm our results of operations and financial condition and could cause a decline in the price of our common stock, particularly if the Merger is not completed. While the Merger is pending, we will be subject to business uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees, customers and suppliers may have an adverse effect on our business. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger is consummated and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others who deal with us to seek to change their existing business relationships with us. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts us from taking specified actions until the Merger occurs without the consent of Laborie. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger. In addition, the Merger could expose us or members of our board of directors to litigation. Any such legal proceedings could delay or prevent the Merger from becoming effective within the agreed upon timeframe or at all. If closing of the Merger is delayed or does not occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Ongoing Business Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations. We anticipate that the size of our business will increase significantly beyond the current size. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There are no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefit currently anticipated from the future mergers and acquisitions. If goodwill or other intangible assets that we have on our balance sheet become impaired, we could be required to take significant charges against earnings. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under U.S. GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other indefinitely-lived intangible assets has been impaired. Amortizing intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders equity in future periods. 19 Table of Contents We may obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms at the time it is needed and which could reduce our operational and strategic flexibility. We may obtain additional financing in 2018. We would seek to acquire that through additional equity and/or debt financing arrangements, which may or may not be available on favorable terms at such time. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. We have historically incurred losses and may never reach profitability. We have incurred net losses in each of the last five fiscal years, including the calendar year ended December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $82 million primarily because of costs relating to the development, including seeking regulatory approvals, and commercialization of our products. We expect our operating expenses relating to sales and marketing activities along with product development and clinical trials will continue to increase during the foreseeable future. To achieve profitability, we must generate substantially more revenue than we have generated in prior years. We may never achieve these objectives or otherwise become profitable. The size and resources of our competitors may render it difficult for us to successfully compete in the marketplace. Our products compete against similar medical devices and other treatment methods, including drugs. Many of our competitors, which include some of the largest medical products and pharmaceutical companies in the world, have significantly greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. Our competitors could use and have used these resources to develop and/or acquire products that may be safer, more effective, less invasive, less expensive or more readily accepted than our products. Their products could make our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors could also devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. For example, Medtronics InterStim neuromodulation device competes with our Urgent PC System, and in 2016 they formally launched an additional PTNS technology, the Nuro TM system. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our brand and our products from our competitors brands and their products and to obtain adequate reimbursement for procedures performed using our products. Factors affecting our competitive position include: ability to sell products tailored to meet the needs of our customers and patients; sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities; product performance and design; quality of customer support; product pricing; product safety; success and timing of new product development and introductions; and intellectual property protection. 20 Table of Contents Our stock price may fluctuate and be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors, among others: actual or anticipated variations in operating results; conditions or trends in the medical device market; announcements of new or acquired products or technologies by us or our competitors; announcements by us or our competitors of significant customer wins or losses, gains or losses of distributors; technological innovations, new products or services; the success of our efforts to acquire or license additional products; additions or departures of key personnel; actual or expected sales of a large number of shares of our common stock; availability of sources of capital; adverse litigation; unfavorable legislative or regulatory decisions; developments in U.S. or international reimbursement systems; variations in interest rates; general market and economic conditions; availability of components on acceptable terms; availability of distributor arrangements on favorable terms; and changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance or interpretations. In addition, the stock market in general, the Nasdaq Capital Market, and the market for shares of novel technology and medical device companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of life science companies have been unusually volatile in recent years, and such volatility may continue for the foreseeable future. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, this volatility and the low level of market liquidity for our common stock could adversely affect an investors ability to sell shares of our common stock and the market price for such shares, at any given time. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the targets of securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert management attention, which could seriously harm our business. 21 Table of Contents We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. We expect to acquire new products or technologies, and if we are unable to successfully complete these acquisitions or to integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or employees, we may fail to realize expected benefits or harm our existing business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may seek to do so through the licensing or acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable license or acquisition candidates and obtaining adequate financing can be difficult, time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Products and technologies that we license or acquire may require additional development prior to sale, including clinical testing and approval by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, and we may encounter difficulties or delays in completing the development or receiving the necessary approvals. We may find that the product or technology cannot be manufactured economically or commercialized successfully. We may not be able to acquire or license the right to products on terms that we find acceptable, if at all. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies into our operations, and the process of integration could be expensive and time consuming, and may strain our resources. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, which could harm our existing business. In addition, future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results or cause a reduction in the price of our common stock. Product liability claims could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The manufacture and sale of our products expose us to significant risk of product liability claims, which may have a negative impact on our business. Any defects or risks that we have not yet identified with our products may give rise to product liability claims. Our existing worldwide product liability insurance coverage of up to $10 million in liability may be inadequate to protect us from liabilities we may incur. We may also not be able to maintain adequate product liability insurance at acceptable rates. If a product liability claim (or series of claims) would be brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, and ultimately it is determined that we are liable, our business could suffer. Additionally, we could experience a material design or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, or other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny that would warrant a recall of some of our products. A recall of any of our products would likely be costly, would be uninsured and could also result in increased product liability claims. Further, while we train our physician customers in the proper use of our products, we cannot be certain that they will implement our instructions accurately. If our products are used incorrectly by our customers, injury may occur and this could give rise to product liability claims against us. Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins and net income. We produce highly complex video-based endoscope products that incorporate sophisticated technology, including hardware and software. Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with operations. Our quality assurance testing programs may not be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, increase warranty repairs, or reduce gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to defects or bugs in our products. There can be no assurance that such a remediation, depending on the products involved, would not have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and net income. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, a product recall, temporary or permanent withdrawal of a product from a market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, margins, and net income. 22 Table of Contents We expect gross margins to vary over time, and our level of product gross margins may not be sustainable. The current levels of our product gross margins may not be sustainable and may continue to be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: obsolescence of components or products due to sales trends and new product introductions; our inability to reduce supply and production costs; increases in material or labor costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing, including the impact of foreign exchange rates for components purchased overseas; changes in distribution channels; and increased warranty costs. The use and acceptance of certain of our products depend heavily upon the availability of third-party reimbursement for the procedures in which our products are used. In the U.S., healthcare providers that purchase medical devices, including our products, generally rely on third-party payers, including Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurance carriers and managed care organizations, to reimburse all or part of the cost and fees associated with the procedures performed using these devices. The commercial success of our products will depend on the ability of healthcare providers to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers for the procedures in which our products are used. Third-party payers are more frequently challenging the coverage and pricing of medical products and procedures. Even if a procedure is eligible for reimbursement, the level of reimbursement may not be adequate to justify the use of our products. In addition, third-party payers may deny reimbursement if they determine that the device used in a treatment was not cost-effective or was used for a non-approved indication, particularly if there is not a published Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, code for reimbursement. For example, in 2009, the American Medical Association advised the medical community that the previously recommended Category 1 CPT code for percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation, or PTNS, treatments should be replaced with an unlisted code. As a result, many third-party insurers delayed or denied reimbursement for PTNS treatments, significantly impacting the sales of our Urgent PC System, until a new code was introduced effective in January 2011. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, with some countries offering government-sponsored healthcare or private insurance, or both. In many countries where there is government-sponsored healthcare reimbursement, decisions are made by individual hospitals with the government setting an upper limit of reimbursement. In most foreign countries, there are also insurance systems that may offer payments for alternative procedures. We cannot be certain that we, or in countries in which we work with our distributors, those distributors, will successfully and cost-effectively manage all of these payment systems. All third-party reimbursement programs, whether government-funded or commercially insured, inside the U.S. or outside, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling health care costs through prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, redesign of benefit, second opinions, careful review of bills, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of programs can potentially limit the amount that healthcare providers may be willing to pay for medical devices and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We cannot predict how quickly or how broadly the market will accept our products. In addition to the availability of third-party reimbursement, market acceptance of our products will depend on our ability to demonstrate the safety, clinical efficacy, perceived benefit, and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products or treatment options of our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in educating the marketplace about the benefit of our products. If we fail to convince health care providers to use our products versus competing products, then demand for our products would suffer, which would cause a decline in our revenue and profitability. Similarly, if we fail to maintain our working relationships with health care providers, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the providers who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our revenue and profitability. We rely on these providers to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing, and sale of our products. We may not have the resources to successfully market our products, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. The marketing of our products requires a significant amount of time and expense in order to identify the physicians who would use our products and to train a sales force that is large enough to interact with the targeted physicians. The ease and predictability of third-party reimbursement significantly impacts the success of our marketing activities. We may not have adequate resources to market our products successfully against larger competitors who have more resources than we do. If we cannot market our products successfully, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we are not able to attract, retain and motivate our sales force and expand our distribution channels, our sales and revenues will suffer. In the U.S., we have a sales organization consisting primarily of direct sales representatives, and a marketing organization to market our products directly and support our distributor organizations. We expect to expand our sales and marketing organization, as needed, to support our growth. We have and will continue to incur significant additional expenses to support this organization. We cannot be certain that our sales organization will be able to generate sales of our urology and endoscopy products at levels that justify our expense, or even if we can, that we will be able to recruit, train, motivate or retain qualified sales and marketing personnel. A significant portion of our revenue outside of the United States is through a network of independent distributors. Our ability to increase product sales in foreign markets will largely depend on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with our distributors and on their ability to successfully market and sell our products. We may not be able to retain distributors who are willing to commit the necessary resources to marketing and selling our products to the level of our expectations. Failure to maintain or expand our distribution channels or to recruit, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and revenues. In addition, we have a limited ability to direct or influence the activities of our third-party, independent distributors. Our distributors could take one or more of the following actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and brand: sell products that compete with our products in breach of their non-competition agreements with us; fail to adequately promote our products; or fail to provide proper service to our end users. If we are unable to adequately manage our distribution network, or if our distributors fail to meet their obligations under their agreements with us, our corporate image among end users of our products could be damaged, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. In addition, foreign governments have increased their anti-bribery efforts in the healthcare sector to reduce improper payments received by hospital administrators and doctors in connection with the purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. We are subject to the regulations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and are required to monitor our activities associated with our foreign sales. To our knowledge, none of our distributors engages in corrupt practices. However, our distributors may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products, which would adversely affect our corporate image and business. 24 Table of Contents Our distributors may not obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We often rely on our distributors in countries outside the U.S. in seeking regulatory approval to market our products in particular countries. To the extent we do so, we are dependent on persons outside of our direct control to make regulatory submissions and secure approvals, and we do not, and will not, have direct access to health care agencies in those markets to ensure timely regulatory approvals or prompt resolution of regulatory or compliance matters. If our distributors fail to obtain the required approvals or do not do so in a timely manner, our sales from our international operations and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot attract and retain key personnel and members of our senior management team, we may not be able to manage and operate successfully, and we may not be able to meet our strategic objectives. Our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate members of our senior management team and key managerial, scientific, sales and technical personnel. We are highly dependent on our senior management team, and any unanticipated loss or interruption of their services could significantly reduce our ability to meet our strategic objectives because, given the intense competition for senior management and other key personnel, it may not be possible for us to find appropriate replacement personnel should the need arise. The loss of a member of our senior management or our professional staff would require the remaining senior executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in retaining our current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future. Loss of key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate successfully. Further, our inability, if any, to enforce non-compete arrangements related to key personnel who have left the company could have a material adverse effect on our business. If third parties claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue selling the affected product. The medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain and costly. We face the risk of claims that our products have infringed on third parties intellectual property rights. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming for us to defend; result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties; cause us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products, if feasible; require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third partys intellectual property, in which agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all; divert the attention of our management; or result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchases or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten our products continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect the proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of trademark laws and confidentiality, noncompetition and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep a competitive advantage. Our patents and patent applications, if issued, may not be broad enough to prevent competitors from introducing similar products into the market. Our patents, if challenged or if we attempt to enforce them, may not necessarily be upheld by the courts. In addition, patent protection in foreign countries may be different from patent protection under U.S. laws and may not be favorable to us. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all of our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary technology through the use of confidentiality and noncompetition agreements with our current key employees and with other parties to whom we have divulged trade secrets. However, these agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event competitors discover or independently develop similar proprietary information. Efforts on our part to enforce any of our proprietary rights could be time-consuming and expensive, which could adversely affect our business and prospects and divert our managements attention. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we use our networks to collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, and data relating to patients who use our products. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to our customers, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our operating margins, revenues and competitive position. The loss or interruption of materials from any of our key suppliers could delay the manufacture of our products, which would limit our ability to generate sales and revenues. We currently purchase several key materials used in our products from single source suppliers, including the finished products for our Urgent PC System. If one of these suppliers delayed or curtailed shipments to us, our ability to manufacture and deliver product would be impaired, our sales would decline or be curtailed for that product, and we would be forced to quickly locate an alternative source of supply. We cannot be sure that acceptable alternative arrangements could be made on a timely basis. Further, our reliance on such suppliers and the cost and difficulty we would encounter in qualifying an alternative subjects us to increased risk of price increases by single source suppliers. Additionally, the qualification of materials and processes as a result of a supplier change could be deemed as unacceptable to regulatory authorities and cause delays and increased costs due to additional test requirements. A significant interruption in the supply of materials, for any reason, could delay the manufacture and sale of our products, which would limit our ability to generate revenues. Certain components for our fiber-based endoscopes and video-based endoscopes are generally only available from one source. Our inability to obtain any of these parts could delay or prevent us from making and selling products, which would have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Our borescopes are assembled using components and subassemblies purchased from independent vendors. While most components and subassemblies are currently available from more than one supplier, certain critical components are currently purchased only from limited key suppliers with which we do not have long or short-term contracts. Our failure to obtain a sufficient quantity of such components on favorable terms could materially adversely affect the sales in our industrial business. 26 Table of Contents Our medical products and manufacturing practices are subject to regulation by the FDA and by other state and foreign regulatory agencies. Our medical products are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and in the foreign countries where we do business. There can be no assurance that the required regulatory clearances will be obtained, and those obtained may include significant limitations on the uses of the product in question. In addition, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could make our regulatory compliance more difficult in the future. The failure to obtain required regulatory clearances or to comply with applicable regulations may result in fines, delays, suspensions of clearances, seizures, recalls of products, operating restrictions or criminal prosecutions, and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform. In the United States, there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended, (the Affordable Care Act) as well as any future healthcare reform legislation, may have a significant impact on our business. The impact of the Affordable Care Act on the health care industry is extensive and includes, among other things, the federal government assuming a larger role in the health care system, expanding healthcare coverage of United States citizens and mandating basic healthcare benefits. The Affordable Care Act contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid, including imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers that began in 2013. Although a moratorium was placed on the medical device excise tax from 2016 through 2019, if it is reinstated, it may adversely affect our sales and the cost of goods sold. Though all bills to repeal the Affordable Care Act were defeated in Congress in 2017, actions have been taken that create uncertainty around its implementation, and that may continue to adversely impact enrollment and insurer participation in the health insurance exchanges established by the Affordable Care Act, while increasing premiums on the exchanges. President Trump signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the Affordable Care Act to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of any provision of the Affordable Care Act that would impose a fiscal or regulatory burden on states, individuals, healthcare providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or medical devices. Furthermore, the administration terminated payments of cost-sharing subsidies to insurers participating on the exchanges, and terminated subsidies used to help individuals with co-payments and deductibles, which has increased premiums on the health insurance exchanges and terminated payments. The enrollment period in 2018 was reduced by half, to 45 days, and funding was reduced for advertising and other resources supporting the 2018 enrollment period. We expect that continuing uncertainty around the Affordable Care Act, together with additional state and federal healthcare reform measures, could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, and also indirectly affect the amounts that private payers are willing to pay. In addition, any healthcare reforms enacted in the future may, like the Affordable Care Act, be phased in over a number of years but, if enacted, could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of business. In addition, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by changes under the Affordable Care Act and changes under any federal or state legislation adopted in the future. If we are not able to maintain sufficient quality controls, regulatory approvals of our products by the European Union, Canada, the FDA or other relevant authorities could be delayed or denied and our sales and revenues will suffer. The FDA, European Union, Canada or other related authorities could stop or delay approval of production of products if our manufacturing facilities do not comply with applicable manufacturing requirements. The FDAs Quality System Regulations impose extensive testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance requirements. Canada and the European Union also impose requirements on quality systems of manufacturers, who are inspected and certified on a periodic basis and may be subject to additional unannounced inspections. Failure or delays in obtaining the right to label our products with the CE mark, which demonstrates adherence to quality standards and compliance with relevant European medical device directives, would impair our ability to import, sell and distribute our products within the European Union. Further, our suppliers are also subject to these regulatory requirements. Failure by any of our suppliers or us to comply with these requirements could prevent us from obtaining or retaining approval and marketing of our products. 27 Table of Contents We are subject, directly or indirectly, to United States federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and false claims laws and regulations. Prosecutions under such laws have been active in recent years and we may become subject to such litigation. If we are unable to, or have not fully complied with such laws, we could face substantial penalties. Our operations are directly, or indirectly through customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and federal False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our sales, marketing and education programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Several courts have interpreted the statutes intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and, despite a series of narrow safe harbors, prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing, or causing to be filed, a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as qui tam actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as whistleblowers, may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. When an entity is determined to have violated the federal False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of these laws, or the impact of such actions. If we are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare reimbursement programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. We derive a significant portion of our sales from outside of the U.S., so foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our operating results, and we are subject to other risks of international operations. We derived approximately 27% of our net sales in the calendar year ended December 31, 2017 from customers and operations in international markets. Because costs and prices of our products or components in overseas countries are affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations, they may have an adverse effect our business, operating results and financial condition. Currently, we do not have any foreign exchange forward contracts and we do not hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. The sale and shipping of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to a number of additional risks, including: the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; the imposition of costly and lengthy export licensing requirements; 28 Table of Contents local political and economic instability; difficulties in recruiting and maintaining distributors and staff in remote locations, including sales people; changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; the imposition of new trade restrictions; the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; foreign taxation compliance and penalties; deemed repatriation of foreign revenue and resulting U.S. federal income taxation; pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; laws and business practices favoring local companies; longer payment cycles; difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; and difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights. Additionally, on June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, which is commonly referred to as Brexit. Subsequent to the referendum, on March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom triggered the two-year process of leaving the European Union, and the British government has begun negotiating the terms of the United Kingdoms future relationship with the European Union. Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on the movement of people of money, and on imports and exports between the United Kingdom and European Union countries and increased regulatory complexities. In addition to the factors listed above, any regulatory changes that arise as a result of Brexit may adversely affect our operations and financial results. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits covered entities and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other benefit. In addition, the FCPA imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of off books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. We also are subject to similar anticorruption legislation implemented in Europe under the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Developments Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. We either operate or plan to operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential violations of the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, and we utilize a number of distributors for whose actions we could be held liable under the FCPA and other anticorruption laws. We inform our personnel, distributors and agents of the requirements of the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, including, but not limited to their reporting requirements. We also have developed and will continue to develop and implement systems for formalizing contracting processes, performing due diligence on personnel, distributors and agents and improving our recordkeeping and auditing practices regarding these regulations. However, there is no guarantee that our personnel, distributors or agents have not or will not engage in conduct undetected by our processes and for which we might be held responsible under the FCPA or other anticorruption laws. 29 Table of Contents If our personnel, distributors or agents are found to have engaged in practices in violation of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws, we could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other remedial measures, including further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, as well as potential personnel changes and disciplinary actions. During the past few years, the SEC has increased its enforcement of violations of the FCPA against companies, including several medical device companies. Although we do not believe we are currently a target, any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Certain foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to prohibitions as strict as those under the FCPA or, even if subjected to strict prohibitions, such prohibitions may be laxly enforced in practice. If our competitors engage in corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft or other fraudulent practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business, or from government officials, who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. Federal income tax reform could have unforeseen effects on our financial condition and results of operations. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") was signed into law. U.S. GAAP requires that the impact of tax legislation be recognized in the period in which the law was enacted. The Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax regime by, among other things, lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective for tax years starting after December 31, 2017, implementing a hybrid territorial tax system, repealing AMT and making pre-2018 credits refundable, and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result, we recorded tax expense of $3.31million in the fourth quarter as a result of revaluation of the deferred tax assets due to the corporate tax rate change from 35% to 21% starting in 2018. All but $70,000 of this was directly offset by a change in the valuation allowance. The Company has $68,000 of AMT credit carryforwards that are expected to be fully utilized due to the credit now being refundable under the TCJA. The company calculated a deemed repatriation income amount due to the change to a territorial tax system under the TCJA. This income can be fully offset with NOLs. The corresponding deferred tax liability associated with it was reversed. The amounts incorporate assumptions made based upon the Company's current interpretation of the Tax Act and may change as the Company receives additional clarification and implementation guidance. Our controlling stockholders exercise voting control over the Company and have the ability to elect or remove from office all of our directors. On November 3, 2016, pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, we issued 16,129,033 shares of our common stock to Accelmed Growth Partners, L.P. in exchange for $25.0 million. At the same time, we also converted the outstanding principal amount, approximately $28.5 million, and accrued interest, approximately $1.0 million, on our promissory notes held by Lewis C. Pell into 17,688,423 shares of our common stock. As a result of the transactions described above, Mr. Pell and Accelmed own or control a majority of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. In connection with the transaction, Accelmed and Mr. Pell entered into the Voting Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Voting Agreement, Mr. Pell and Accelmed have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock for the other partys nominees to the board of directors. Under the Voting Agreement, each of Mr. Pell and Accelmed are entitled to nominate two directors, with the remaining seats to be filled by nominees that are mutually agreed upon by Mr. Pell and Accelmed in accordance with the terms of the Voting Agreement. The Purchase Agreement provides that so long as Accelmed holds no less than 20% of the Companys issued and outstanding shares of common stock, that the Company shall not dissolve the Company, engage in a business combination that is subject to a stockholder vote, change the size of the board of directors, incur new indebtedness in excess of $10.0 million or amend the capitalization of the Company, without the prior approval of the directors nominated by Accelmed pursuant to the Voting Agreement. As such, Accelmed and Mr. Pell exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company or forcing management to change our operating strategies in ways that are not supported by stockholders other than the controlling stockholders. 30 Table of Contents We are not subject to certain listing standards that normally apply to companies whose shares are quoted on Nasdaq. The Voting Agreement is intended, in part, to qualify the Company as a Controlled Company under Nasdaq Rule 5615(2), which permits the Company to utilize the controlled company exemption to the independent director requirements of Nasdaq Listing Rule 5605. A Controlled Company is not required to have a majority of its board of directors comprised of independent directors. Director nominees are not required to be selected or recommended for the boards selection by a majority of independent directors or a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors, nor do the Nasdaq listing standards require a Controlled Company to certify the adoption of a formal written charter or board resolution, as applicable, addressing the nominations process. A Controlled Company is also exempt from Nasdaqs requirements regarding the determination of officer compensation by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. Although we currently comply with certain of the Nasdaq listing standards that do not apply to Controlled Companies, our compliance is voluntary, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to comply with these standards in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease an 18,258 square-foot office, warehouse and manufacturing facility in Minnetonka, Minnesota for our corporate headquarters pursuant to a lease agreement with DCII-5400-5510 Feltl Road, LLC expiring in June 2019. At the Minnetonka facility, we manufacture Macroplastique and warehouse and ship Urgent PC and Macroplastique. We lease a 20,500 square-foot office, warehouse and manufacturing facility in Orangeburg, New York pursuant to a lease agreement with GHP Office Realty, LLC that expires in February 2019. At the Orangeburg facility, we manufacture our advanced line of endoscopy-based medical products, including our flexible fiber and video endoscopes, for a variety of specialties and markets and industrial borescopes to a variety of users, primarily in the aircraft engine manufacturing and aircraft engine maintenance industries. We lease an approximately 24,400 square foot office, warehouse and manufacturing facility in Westborough, Massachusetts, pursuant to a lease agreement with Glenborough Flanders Park, LLC that expires in December 2025. We manufacture our EndoSheath products at this location. We own 9,774 square feet of office and warehouse space in Geleen, The Netherlands. At this facility, we maintain our European headquarters and warehouse. We lease an approximately 1,800 square-foot office and warehouse space in London, United Kingdom, pursuant to a lease agreement with Mr. and Mrs. Penberthy that expires in December 2021. At the London facility, we warehouse and ship our PrimeSight and EndoSheath products for the UK market. We believe that these facilities are suitable and adequate for our operations for the foreseeable future. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are not involved in any material active legal actions. However, from time to time, we may be subject to various pending or threatened legal actions and proceedings, including those that arise in the ordinary course of our business. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and to outcomes that are not predictable with assurance and that may not be known for extended periods of time. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE Not applicable. 31 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol CGNT. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices for our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2017 and for the year ended December 31, 2016, as reported on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Year ended December 31, 2017 Low High First Quarter $ 1.72 $ 2.21 Second Quarter $ 1.60 $ 1.95 Third Quarter $ 1.62 $ 2.94 Fourth Quarter $ 2.60 $ 3.15 Year ended December 31, 2016 Low High First Quarter $ 0.95 $ 1.35 Second Quarter $ 0.71 $ 1.14 Third Quarter $ 0.96 $ 1.99 Fourth Quarter $ 1.37 $ 2.99 As of March 20, 2018, we had approximately 99 holders of record of our common stock. Registered ownership includes nominees who may hold securities on behalf of multiple beneficial owners. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans. The following table provides particular information regarding our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2017. Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options Weighted-Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders (1) 2,545,963 $ 2.72 139,738 (1) Consists of options outstanding under the Cogentix Medical, Inc. 2015 Omnibus Incentive Plan, the Uroplasty 2006 Amended Stock and Incentive Plan, as amended, the Vision-Sciences, Inc. 2000 Plan, the Vision-Sciences, Inc. 2003 Director Option Plan, and the Vision-Sciences, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan 32 Table of Contents Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers. Upon exercise of stock options or vesting of restricted stock, employees can request the Company to withhold shares to pay the resulting income tax withholdings of the employee. These transactions constitute stock repurchases and are the only stock repurchases engaged in by the Company. Information regarding the Companys stock repurchases during the year ended December 31, 2017 is as follows: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs January 1, 2017 March 31, 2017 - - - - April 1, 2017 June 30, 2017 10,261 $ 1.71 - - July 1, 2017 September 30, 2017 - - - - October 1, 2017 December 31, 2017 - - - - Total 10,261 $ 1.71 - - ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Summary Statement of Operations Data (in thousands except per share data) Not required to be disclosed. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read this discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with, and we qualify our discussion in its entirety by, the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included elsewhere within this report, the material contained under Part 1, Item 1. Description of Business and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this report, and the cautionary disclosure about forward-looking statements at the front of Part I of this report. Overview Cogentix Medical is a global medical device company. We design, develop, manufacture and market innovative proprietary technologies primarily serving the urology and related markets. The Urgent PC Neuromodulation System is an FDA-cleared device that delivers percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS) for the office-based treatment of overactive bladder (OAB). The FDA-cleared PrimeSight TM Endoscopy Systems utilizing the EndoSheath Protective Barrier combine state-of-the-art endoscopic technology with a sterile, disposable microbial barrier, providing practitioners and healthcare facilities with a solution to meet the growing need for safe, efficient and cost-effective flexible endoscopy. We also offer Macroplastique a urethral bulking agent for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence. Outside the U.S., the company markets additional bulking agents: PTQ for the treatment of fecal incontinence and the VOX for vocal cord augmentation. In July 2017, we acquired Genesis Medical LTD (the Genesis acquisition), a privately held U.K. company that distributes a variety of products to urologists. Our strategic direction for calendar year 2018 and beyond is premised on the Companys continued operation as a stand-alone entity, under the management of the current executive officers and the oversight of the current board of directors. The Companys strategy may change significantly in the event of our acquisition by Laborie Medical Technologies ULC. See Item 1. Business Recent Developments for more information on this pending transaction. Results of Operations Twelve-months ended December 31, 2017 compared to twelve-months ended December 31, 2016 Net Sales . Consolidated net sales of $56,316,000 in the current period represented a $4,465,000 increase, or 8.6%, over net sales of $51,851,000 in the prior period. The increase is primarily due to a $4,565,000 increase in revenue from the Urology product lines, which is comprised of the PrimeSight, Urgent PC, Macroplastique and other urology products, and is offset by a $100,000 net decrease in revenue from the Airway Management and Industrial product lines. 33 Table of Contents Consolidated net sales for PrimeSight urology technology of $19,041,000 in the current period represented a $4,025,000 increase, or 26.8%, over net sales of $15,016,000 in the prior period. The increase is due to our sales force becoming more proficient in selling this technology as well the fact that our PrimeSight technology platform meets the needs of our medical customers for always ready, always sterile flexible endoscopy solutions. Our urology PrimeSight products have been clinically proven to reduce the risk of cross contamination associated with the reuse or reprocessing of difficult to clean conventional endoscopes and they also reduce the typical 45-minute reprocessing time to less than 10 minutes, allowing for greater patient throughput, increased physician productivity and ultimately economic benefit for our customers. Consolidated net sales of our Urgent PC System of $21,355,000 in the current period represented a $118,000 increase, or 0.6%, when compared to net sales of $21,237,000 in the prior period. U.S. unit growth was offset by a 3% decline in average selling price. U.S. unit growth was due primarily to sales execution and increased penetration in existing accounts. Our sales team has effectively demonstrated the clinical efficacy and value proposition of Urgent PC to our physician customers resulting in the increased sales. The sales team continues to place a strong emphasis on servicing existing accounts and increasing utilization within existing accounts. The decrease in average selling price is primarily due to the continued sales efforts of a large competitor who entered the PTNS space in the first quarter of 2016. Average selling prices have been substantially consistent over the past four quarters. Consolidated net sales of our Macroplastique product of $7,140,000 in the current period represented a $247,000 decrease, or 3.3%, from net sales of $7,387,000 in the prior period. Macroplastique serves a small market, and the focus of our sales force has been on growing our PrimeSight and Urgent PC products. Consolidated net sales of other urology products of $1,778,000 in the current period represented a $669,000 increase, or 60.3%, over net sales of $1,109,000 in the prior period. The increase is due primarily to non-PrimeSight revenue from the Genesis acquisition. Consolidated net sales of our non-urology products (Airway Management and Industrial Boroscopes) of $7,002,000 in the current period represented a $100,000 decrease, or 1.4%, from net sales of $7,102,000 in the prior period. The decrease is primarily due to our increased focus on Urology products. Consolidated net sales to customers in the U.S. of $40,888,000 in the current period represented an increase of $1,374,000, or 3.5%, over net sales of $39,514,000 in the prior period. Consolidated net sales to customers outside the U.S. of $15,428,000 in the current period represented an increase of $3,091,000, or 25.1%, over net sales of $12,337,000 in the prior period. Gross Profit : Gross profit was $37,444,000 (66.5% of net sales) in the current period versus $35,603,000 (68.7% of net sales) in the prior period. The change in gross profit percentage is attributed primarily to product mix, as revenue from our PrimeSight products were a higher proportion of total sales in the current period as compared to the prior period, and our PrimeSight products have a lower profit percentage than our Urgent PC and Macroplastique products. General and Administrative Expenses (G&A) : G&A expenses of $8,294,000 in the current period increased $1,516,000 from $6,778,000 in the prior period. The increase in expenses is primarily attributed to an increase of $646,000 in share based compensation expense and approximately $383,000 of business development costs as well as inclusion of approximately $286,000 for the operating costs of Genesis. R esearch and Development Expenses (R&D) : R&D expenses of $4,742,000 in the current period increased $41,000 from $4,702,000 in the prior period. The increase is attributed to ongoing enhancements to our PrimeSight product line. Selling and Marketing Expenses (S&M) : S&M expenses of $22,907,000 in the current period increased $1,594,000 from $21,313,000 in the prior period. The increase is attributed primarily to the expansion of the U.S. sales force as well as the addition of five sales personnel from the Genesis acquisition and is partially offset by a $388,000 refund from the IRS related to medical device taxes paid in 2013 - 2015. Amortization of Intangibles : Amortization of intangibles was $2,390,000 in the current period compared to $2,363,000 in the prior period. One-Time-Costs - Proxy Settlement Costs : One-time costs in the prior period related to the proxy contest settlement between the Company and Mr. Lewis Pell and related litigation in connection with the 2016 Annual Meeting. These fees included $758,000 of professional fees (primarily legal) and $1,500,000 of severance costs for the Companys former CEO. There were no similar costs in the current period. 34 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense) : Other income (expense) includes interest income, interest expense, foreign currency exchange and other non-operating costs when incurred. Net other income was $272,000 in the current period compared to net other expense of $20,139,000 in the prior period. Other income in the current period is primarily interest income from our investments. Other expense in the prior year is primarily due to cash debt conversion expense of $18.8 million as a result of the conversion of $29.5 million (face value) of convertible debt related party that was converted into equity in the fourth quarter of 2016. We recognize exchange gains and losses primarily as a result of fluctuations in currency rates between the U.S. dollar (the functional reporting currency) and the Euro and British pound (functional currencies of our subsidiaries), as well as their effect on the dollar denominated short-term intercompany obligations between us and our foreign subsidiaries. We recorded foreign currency exchange gains of $48,000 in the current period. Income Tax Expense : We recorded income tax expense of $137,000 in the current period. Income tax expense is attributed to our foreign subsidiaries and to the payment of minimum state taxes in the U.S. We cannot use our U.S. net operating loss carry forwards to offset taxable income in foreign jurisdictions. Our actual income tax expense differs from the statutory federal income tax benefit largely due to the recording of valuation allowances in both periods presented. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) was signed into federal law, which among other changes, reduces the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%; provides for a deduction for capital expenditures; limits executive compensation, net interest and net operating loss (NOL) deductions; requires capitalization and amortization of research and development expenditures; initiates the migration from a worldwide to a territorial tax regime; introduces a tax on deferred foreign earnings (a deemed repatriation); and provides a deduction for foreign-derived intangible income. We expect the new tax law will have the following impacts: the deferred tax asset on our balance sheet was reduced by approximately $3.3 million of December 31, 2017; the impact to the company of the tax on deferred foreign earnings is immaterial the rate at which our NOL carry forwards will be utilized will be unchanged The Company will continue to analyze the TCJA to assess the full effects on the Companys business strategy and financial results. For additional discussion of the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on our accounting policies, see the section entitled Critical Accounting Policies Income Taxes. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The following tables reconcile our operating loss calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) to non-GAAP financial measures that exclude non-cash charges for share-based compensation, and depreciation and amortization from gross profit, operating expenses and operating loss. The non-GAAP financial measures used by management and disclosed by us are not a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures and consolidated financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP, and you should carefully evaluate our reconciliations to non-GAAP. We may calculate our non-GAAP financial measures differently from similarly titled measures used by other companies. Therefore, our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to those used by other companies. We have described the reconciliations of each of our non-GAAP financial measures described above to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. We use these non-GAAP financial measures, and in particular non-GAAP operating income (loss), for internal managerial purposes and incentive compensation for senior management because we believe such measures are one important indicator of the strength and the operating performance of our business. Analysts and investors frequently ask us for this information. We believe that they use these measures to evaluate the overall operating performance of companies in our industry, including as a means of comparing period-to-period results and as a means of evaluating our results with those of other companies. 35 Table of Contents Expense Adjustments GAAP Share- based Expense Long-term Incentive Plan Depreciation Disposal of Assets Amortization of Intangibles Non-GAAP Twelve-months ended December 31, 2017 Gross Profit $ 37,443,859 $ 22,329 $ - $ 193,968 $ - $ - $ 37,660,156 % of Net sales 66.5 % 66.9 % Operating Expenses: General & administrative 8,293,814 (1,231,667 ) - (226,939 ) - - 6,835,208 Research and development 4,742,308 (42,552 ) - (12,964 ) - - 4,686,792 Selling and marketing 22,907,468 (156,363 ) - (342,366 ) (2,001 ) - 22,406,738 Amortization 2,389,743 - - - - (2,389,743 ) - 38,333,333 (1,430,582 ) - (582,269 ) (2,001 ) (2,389,743 ) 33,928,738 Operating income (loss) $ (889,474 ) $ 1,452,911 $ - $ 776,237 $ 2,001 $ 2,389,743 $ 3,731,418 Expense Adjustments GAAP Share- based Expense Long-term Incentive Plan Depreciation Disposal of Assets Amortization of Intangibles Non-GAAP Twelve-months ended December 31, 2016 Gross Profit $ 35,603,048 $ 33,330 $ - $ 175,696 $ - $ - $ 35,812,074 % of Net sales 68.7 % 69.1 % Operating Expenses: General & administrative 6,778,010 (585,420 ) 74,404 (201,031 ) (5,640 ) - 6,060,323 Research and development 4,701,539 (23,717 ) - (2,450 ) - - 4,675,372 Selling and marketing 21,313,364 (105,652 ) - (393,500 ) - - 20,814,212 Amortization 2,363,432 - - - - (2,363,432 ) - One-time costs 2,257,654 - - - - - 2,257,654 37,413,999 (714,789 ) 74,404 (596,981 ) (5,640 ) (2,363,432 ) 33,807,561 Operating income (loss) $ (1,810,951 ) $ 748,119 $ (74,404 ) $ 772,677 $ 5,640 $ 2,363,432 $ 2,004,513 One-time costs 2,257,654 2,257,654 Operating income excluding one-time costs $ 4,262,167 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows At December 31, 2017, our cash and cash equivalents balances totaled $20,910,000. In addition, we have short term investments totaling $6,247,000. Our net working capital as of December 31, 2017, totaled approximately $35,306,000. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, cash provided by operating activities was $2,307,000, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $3,300,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, we incurred a net loss of $883,000. Significant non-cash expenses incurred in this period include depreciation and amortization expense of $3,166,000, and share based compensation of $1,453,000. Working capital changes that used cash include higher accounts receivable, lower accrued compensation, and lower accounts payable, while cash was provided as a result of lower inventories. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, we incurred a net loss of $22,095,000. Significant non-cash expenses incurred in the prior period include debt conversion expense of $18,841,000, depreciation and amortization expense of $3,136,000, share based compensation of $748,000 and amortization of debt discount of $941,000. Working capital changes that provided cash in the prior period include lower accounts receivable and higher accrued compensation, while cash was used as a result of inventories increasing. The prior period net loss includes nonrecurring cash expenses of $2,300,000 million attributed to legal fees and severance associated with proxy settlement costs. 36 Table of Contents During the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, cash provided by investing activities included $15,020,000 of proceeds from the maturity of available-for-sale securities, partially offset by $2,438,000 in purchases of available-for-sale securities, $2,000,000 for the investment in Vensica Medical, $857,000 for the purchase of property, plant, and equipment, and $181,000 for the Genesis acquisition. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, we used cash of $18,946,000 for the purchase of available-for-sale securities and $355,000 for the purchase of property, plant, and equipment. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, we generated net proceeds from financing activities of $23,429,000 from the issuance of 16,129,033 shares of our common stock at a price per share of $1.55, net of related expenses, in conjunction with the closing of the securities purchase agreement dated September 7, 2016, that we entered into with Accelmed Growth Partners, L.P. (the Accelmed Purchase Agreement). Under the terms of the Accelmed Purchase Agreement, Accelmed agreed to purchase 16,129,033 shares of our common stock at $1.55 per share, for an aggregate price of $25,000,000. As a condition to Accelmed closing the equity investment, we agreed to convert into shares of our common stock all of the outstanding debt and accrued interest owed to Lewis C. Pell, one of our directors. On September 7, 2016, we entered into a definitive agreement with Mr. Pell (the Pell Note Exchange Agreement) under which the debt we owed to Mr. Pell would be converted into our common stock at a price per share of $1.67 prior to closing the Accelmed Purchase Agreement. The Pell Note Exchange Agreement also provided that, simultaneously with the conversion of such debt, all outstanding warrants to purchase our common stock that are held by Mr. Pell would be cancelled. Sources of Liquidity In addition to our cash and investments, we have a $7,000,000 secured revolving credit facility (Facility), subject to eligible accounts receivable and inventory . We may obtain additional debt and/or equity financing during 2018. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our ability to achieve widespread market acceptance of our products and successfully expand our business in the U.S. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully achieve such revenue growth. If we fail to meet our projections of profitability and cash flow, or determine to use cash for matters we are not currently projecting, we may need to seek additional financing to meet our cash needs. We cannot assure you that such financing, if needed, will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. The Company does not have any commitments for capital expenditures. In our normal course of business, we have commitments to purchase from various vendors finished goods and manufacturing components under issued purchase orders. Convertible Debt Related Party As of December 31, 2015, we had related party convertible debt with a recorded value of $23,337,000 and a face value of $28,490,000 plus accrued interest. As a condition to the closing of the Accelmed Purchase Agreement described under the section entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, we converted all of the outstanding principal amount and accrued interest on the convertible debt related party into shares of common stock at a price of $1.67. This conversion was approved by the Companys shareholders on November 3, 2016. The conversion of the convertible debt related party was negotiated to be converted at a conversion rate that was significantly lower than the original conversion rates. The transaction was accounted for as an induced conversion and resulted in non-cash debt conversion expense of approximately $18,841,000 for the year ended December 31, 2016. 37 Table of Contents Commitments and Contingencies Future payments under our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017 are summarized below: Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More Than 5 Years Operating lease commitments $ 2,488,000 $ 817,000 $ 709,000 $ 418,000 $ 544,000 Operating lease commitments include a long-term lease with Liberty Property Limited Partnership for an 18,258 square-foot facility for our U.S. headquarters located at 5420 Feltl Road, Minnetonka, Minnesota. The lease, which had an original expiration date in April 2014, was amended in January 2014. The amended lease began on May 1, 2014, has a term of 62 months and requires average annual minimum rent payments of approximately $154,000. We lease a 20,500 square-foot office, warehouse and manufacturing facility in Orangeburg, New York pursuant to a lease agreement with GHP Office Realty, LLC. The lease, as amended, has an expiration date of February 2019. The lease requires average annual minimum rent payments of approximately $349,000. On April 2, 2015, we leased approximately 24,400 square feet in Westborough, Massachusetts pursuant to a lease agreement with Glenborough Flanders Park, LLC expiring in December 2025. The lease requires average annual minimum rent payments of approximately $134,000. In our normal course of business, we have commitments to purchase from various vendors finished goods and manufacturing components under issued purchase orders. At December 31, 2017, the approximate future minimum purchase agreement payments in subsequent years are as follows: 2018 $ - 2019 300,000 2020 600,000 2021 900,000 2022 1,200,000 Thereafter 1,500,000 $ 4,500,000 We have a defined benefit pension plan covering six current and twenty former employees in The Netherlands. We pay premiums to an insurance company to fund annuities for the current employees. We are responsible for funding additional annuities based on continued service and future salary increases. We closed this defined benefit plan for new employees in April 2005. As of that date, The Netherlands subsidiary established a defined contribution plan that now covers new employees. We also have a defined benefit pension plan for six former employees of our U.K. subsidiary. We closed this plan to further accrual for all employees effective December 31, 2004, and, effective March 2005, established a defined contribution plan that now covers new employees. The following table presents the sensitivity of our funded status as of December 31, 2017, and expected 2018 pension expense to the following changes in key assumptions: Increase/(Decrease) Funded Status at December 31, 2017 Increase/(Decrease) 2018 Pension Expense Assumption: Increase in discount rate by 1 percentage point $ 191,000 $ (52,000 ) Decrease in discount rate by 1 percentage point (248,000 ) 64,000 Increase in estimated return on assets by 1 percentage point n/a (8,000 ) Decrease in estimated return on assets by 1 percentage point n/a 8,000 Increase in inflation rate by 1 percentage point (185,000 ) 43,000 Decrease in inflation rate by 1 percentage point 160,000 (39,000 ) Increase in compensation by 1 percentage point (49,000 ) 7,000 Decrease in compensation by 1 percentage point - - 38 Table of Contents Regarding The Netherlands defined benefit pension plan, the market value of the assets is determined as the discounted stream of guaranteed benefit payments. Given the valuation method of the assets, the expected long-term rate of return on assets equals the discount rate. As such The Netherlands defined benefit pension plan is not included in the sensitivity analysis for the estimated return on assets, because the sensitivity on the estimated return on assets is implicitly already included in the sensitivity analysis for the discount rate. Critical Accounting Policies For a complete description of our critical accounting policies, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which require us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported. In preparing these consolidated financial statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of certain amounts, giving due consideration to materiality. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, the following can be characterized as critical accounting policies and are particularly important to the portrayal of our results of operations and financial position. These critical policies may require the application of a higher level of judgment by us, and as a result are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605 (Topic 605, Revenue Recognition) . ASC 605 requires that four basic criteria must be met before revenue can be recognized: 1. persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists; 2. delivery has occurred or services were rendered; 3. the fee is fixed and determinable; and 4. collectability is reasonably assured We recognize revenue when title passes to the customer, generally upon shipment of our products F.O.B. shipping point. Revenue for service repairs of equipment is recognized after service has been completed, and service contract revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the contract. We include shipping and handling charges billed to customers in net sales, and include related costs incurred by us in cost of goods sold. Typically, our agreements contain no customer acceptance provisions or clauses. We sell our products to end users and to distributors. Payment terms range from prepayment to 120 days. The distributor payment terms are not contingent on the distributor selling the product to end users. Customers do not have the right to return products except for warranty claims. We offer customary product warranties. Accounts Receivable We grant credit to our customers in the normal course of business and, generally, do not require collateral or any other security to support amounts due. If necessary, we have an outside party assist us with performing credit and reference checks and establishing credit limits for the customer. Accounts outstanding longer than the contractual payment terms are considered past due. We carry our accounts receivable at the original invoice amount less an estimated allowance for doubtful receivables based on a periodic review of all outstanding amounts. We determine the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the customers financial health, and both historical and expected credit loss experience. We write off our accounts receivable when we deem them uncollectible. We record recoveries of accounts receivable previously written off when received. We are not always able to timely anticipate changes in the financial condition of our customers and if circumstances related to these customers deteriorate, our estimates of the recoverability of accounts receivable could be materially affected and we may be required to record additional allowances. Alternatively, if more allowances are provided than are ultimately required, we may reverse a portion of such provisions in future periods based on the actual collection experience. Historically, the accounts receivable balances we have written off have generally been within our expectations. 39 Table of Contents Inventories We value inventory at net realizable value the slow moving and obsolete inventories based upon current and expected future product sales. Historically, the inventory write-offs have generally been within our expectations. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Our long-lived assets consist of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We measure the recoverability of assets to be held and used by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. We use judgment to forecast future cash flows including forecasting revenues and margins, and working capital needs. If we consider such assets impaired, we measure the impairment to be recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Share-Based Compensation We account for share-based compensation costs under ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation. ASC 718 covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including stock options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights, and employee share purchase plans. We recognize the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions, including grants of employee stock options and restricted shares, in our financial statements. We measure that cost based on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. Defined Benefit Pension Plans We have a liability attributed to defined benefit pension plans we offered to certain former and current employees of our subsidiaries in the UK and The Netherlands. The liability is dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates, and the continued benefit costs we incur may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions such as the discount rate, mortality, compensation rates, or retirement dates used to determine the projected benefit obligation. Additionally, changes made to the provisions of the plans may impact current and future benefit costs. Changes in benefit obligations associated with these factors are recognized in future years over the expected average future service of the active employees or the average remaining life expectancies of inactive employees. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates we expect to apply to taxable income in the years in which we expect to recover or settle those temporary differences. As a result of the reduction of the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the deferred tax asset on our balance sheet was reduced by approximately $3,300,000 as of December 31, 2017. We recognize a valuation allowance when we determine it is more likely than not that we will not realize a portion of the deferred tax asset. We have established a valuation allowance for U.S. deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty that we will generate enough income in that taxing jurisdictions to utilize the assets with the exception of the refundable AMT credit carryforward. Therefore, we have only reflected the benefit of such deferred tax assets in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The deferred tax asset decreased by approximately $2,758,000 in the 12 months ending December 31, 2017, and decreased by approximately $7,395,000 in the 12 months ending December 31, 2016. The valuation allowance increased by approximately $2,795,000 in the 12 months ending December 31, 2017, and decreased by approximately $7,335,000 in 12 months ending December 31, 2016. In addition, future utilization of NOL carry forwards is subject to certain limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. This section generally relates to a 50% change in ownership of a company over a three-year period. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act limits NOL deductions to 80% of taxable income with indefinite carry forward, with carrybacks generally eliminated. Of the $118,500,000 of NOLs for U.S. income tax purposes, $88,200,000 are expected to expire unutilized due to Section 382. 40 Table of Contents We refer you to Note 9 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for further discussion. Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This ASU simplifies several aspects of the accounting for employee share-based payment transactions, including the accounting for income taxes, forfeitures, and statutory tax withholding requirements, as well as classification in the statement of cash flows. This new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within that reporting period. We adopted this standard as of January 1, 2017. The adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Under the new ASU we no longer account for forfeitures of restricted stock awards and stock options throughout the vesting period and instead account for them in the period in which they occur. We also recognize certain tax benefits or tax shortfalls upon a restricted-stock award vesting or stock option exercise relative to the deferred tax asset position established in the provision for income taxes line of the consolidated statements of operations instead of within the consolidated statement of shareholders equity. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. This ASU is in response to diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows and provides guidance on eight specific cash flow classification issues. It will be effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within that reporting period. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. The Company adopted this standard as of January 1, 2017. The adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (Topic 330). Under the current guidance (i.e., ASC 330-10-352 before the ASU), an entity subsequently measures inventory at the lower of cost or market, with market defined as replacement cost, net realizable value (NRV), or NRV less a normal profit margin. An entity uses current replacement cost provided that it is not above NRV (i.e., the ceiling) or below NRV less an approximately normal profit margin (i.e., the floor). The new guidance requires entities to measure most inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value, thereby simplifying the current guidance under which an entity must measure inventory at the lower of cost or market (market in this context is defined as one of three different measures). The ASU will not apply to inventories that are measured by using either the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method or the retail inventory method (RIM). The amendments in ASU No. 2015-11 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this standard and it had no impact on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements Going Concern (Subtopic 205-40), Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. Under U.S. GAAP, continuation of a reporting entity as a going concern is presumed as the basis for preparing financial statements unless and until the entity's liquidation becomes imminent. Preparation of financial statements under this presumption is commonly referred to as the going concern basis of accounting. If and when an entity's liquidation becomes imminent, financial statements should be prepared under the liquidation basis of accounting in accordance with Subtopic 205-30 of this ASU, Presentation of Financial StatementsLiquidation Basis of Accounting. Even when an entity's liquidation is not imminent, there may be conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern. In those situations, financial statements should continue to be prepared under the going concern basis of accounting, but the amendments in this ASU should be followed to determine whether to disclose information about the relevant conditions and events. The amendments in this ASU are effective for the annual period ending after December 15, 2016, and for annual periods and interim periods thereafter. Early application is permitted. The Company has evaluated the going concern considerations in this ASU. However, management does not believe that the Company has met conditions which would subject the Companys financial statements to additional disclosure. 41 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted. In February 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issues ASU No. 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. The amendments in this update allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The standard is effective for all entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within these fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. In May 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation Stock Compensation: Scope of Modification Accounting. This ASU is intended to provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions on a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. This new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within that reporting period. The Company does not expect these amendments to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-08, ReceivablesNonrefundable Fees and Other Costs: Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities related to the amortization period for certain purchased callable debt securities held at a premium. The amendments shorten the amortization period for the premium to the earliest call date. The amendment is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company does not expect these amendments to have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB, issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairment by eliminating Step 2 of the current goodwill impairment test. Goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which the reporting units carrying value exceeds its fair value, limited to the carrying value of the goodwill. The standard is effective for us beginning January 1, 2020. Early adoption is permitted for any impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017. The new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. This ASU is in response to diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows and provides guidance on eight specific cash flow classification issues. It will be effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within that reporting period. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. We do not believe the adoption of this update will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-2, Leases, under which lessees will recognize most leases on-balance sheet. This will generally increase reported assets and liabilities. For public entities, this ASU is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. ASU 2016-2 mandates a modified retrospective transition method for all entities. While the Company is still evaluating the timing and impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements, it anticipates that the adoption could result in an increase in the assets and liabilities recorded on its consolidated balance sheet. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as amended by ASU 2015-14, Deferral of Effective Date, which requires an entity to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 sets forth a new revenue recognition model that requires identifying the contract, identifying the performance obligations, determining the transaction price, allocating the transaction price to performance obligations and recognizing the revenue upon satisfaction of performance obligations. For public entities, this ASU is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. The provisions can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We plan to adopt this ASU effective January 1, 2018 using the cumulative-effect adjustment method. The Company has completed the assessment of this ASU on each of our revenue streams and, based on our review of contracts, we believe the impact on our consolidated financial statements is immaterial. For each of our products, revenue will still be recognized when title passes to the customer, generally upon shipment. Revenue for service repairs of equipment will continue to be recognized after service has been completed, and service contract revenue will be recognized ratably over the term of the contract. We are still evaluating the impact of the new revenue recognition standard on our disclosures due to the new qualitative and quantitative requirements under the standard. 42 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2017, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements.