Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Our forward-looking statements generally relate to: Our future revenues, future operating expenses, anticipated cash burn rate and whether and how long our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our operations, and our continuing losses; the market size and market acceptance of our products; the status of our product development programs; and the effect of new accounting pronouncements and future health care, tax and other legislation. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. These uncertainties include factors that affect all businesses as well as matters specific to us. Some of the factors known to us that could cause our actual results to differ materially from what we have anticipated in our forward-looking statements are described under the heading Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors below. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement that speaks only as of the date made and to recognize that forward-looking statements are predictions of future results, which may not occur as anticipated. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements and from historical results, due to the risks and uncertainties described under the heading Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors below, as well as others that we may consider immaterial or do not anticipate at this time. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we do not know whether our expectations will prove correct. Our expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those described below under the heading Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors . The risks and uncertainties described under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors below are not exclusive and further information concerning us and our business, including factors that potentially could materially affect our operating results or financial condition, may emerge from time to time. We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting such forward-looking statements. We advise you, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect our financial results, our accounting, and the accuracy of the statements we make in this Form 10-K. For example, we make statements about our belief in the efficacy of our product, the impact of regulatory and reimbursement approvals on our products and revenues, the attributes of our products versus those of our competitors, the adequacy of our resources, including cash, available to us, and other matters all of which represent our expectations or beliefs about future events. Our actual results may vary from these expectations because of a number of factors that affect our business, the most important of which include the following: Risks Related to the Combination of Vision and Uroplasty We plan to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms at the time it is needed and which could reduce our operational and strategic flexibility. We plan to obtain additional financing in fiscal 2016. We will seek to acquire that through additional equity and/or debt financing arrangements, which may or may not be available on favorable terms at such time. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. We may be unable to successfully integrate Uroplastys and Visions operations or realize the anticipated cost savings and other potential benefit of the merger in a timely manner, if at all. As a result, the value of our shares may be adversely affected. Uroplasty and Vision entered into the merger agreement because each company believed that the merger will be beneficial to our respective stockholders, other stakeholders and businesses. Achieving the anticipated potential benefit of the merger will depend in part upon whether we are able to integrate predecessor companies operations in an efficient and effective manner. The integration process may not be completed smoothly or successfully. The necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. Uroplasty and Vision operated numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, payroll, employee benefit and regulatory compliance. Uroplasty and Vision have inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies that could affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees and/or to achieve the anticipated benefit of the merger. The integration of certain operations requires the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract managements attention from our day-to-day business. Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt our business. A failure of our management to integrate successfully the operations of the two companies, or such integration of the operations, if any, within a longer time frame than expected could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated operating and cost synergies or long-term strategic benefit of the merger. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefit of the merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results, which may negatively affect the value of our shares. Our success will depend in part upon the ability to retain key employees of each predecessor company. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. In addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty or difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that key employees will be retained. We are in the process of combining the two predecessor companies. The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefit of the integration plan may not be realized. 19 Table of Contents Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations. We anticipate that the size of our business will increase significantly beyond the current size of either our predecessor businesses. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefit currently anticipated from the merger. We have incurred direct and indirect costs as a result of the merger. We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with completing the merger, and over a period of time following completion of the merger, we further expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating the businesses, operations, policies and procedures of Uroplasty and Vision. While Uroplasty and Vision have assumed that a certain level of transaction and coordination expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond the combined companys control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these transaction and coordination expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses may exceed the costs historically incurred by Uroplasty and Vision. Our actual financial positions and results of operations may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial data. The pro forma financial information contained in Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report and previously provided by us has been presented for illustrative purposes only and may not be an indication of what the our financial position or results of operations will be in the future. The pro forma financial information has been derived from the audited and unaudited historical financial statements of Uroplasty and Vision-Sciences, and certain adjustments and assumptions have been made regarding the combined company after giving effect to the transaction. The assets and liabilities of Uroplasty and Vision-Sciences have been measured at their fair value based on various preliminary estimates using assumptions that management believes are reasonable utilizing information currently available. The process for estimating the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities requires the use of judgment in determining the appropriate assumptions and estimates. These purchase price estimates may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. Differences between preliminary estimates in the pro forma financial information and the final acquisition accounting will occur and could have a material impact on the pro forma financial information and our financial position and future results of operations. The assumptions used in preparing the pro forma financial information may not prove to be accurate, and other factors may affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any potential decline in our financial condition or results of operations may cause significant variations in our share price. If goodwill or other intangible assets that we recorded in connection with the merger become impaired, we could be required to take significant charges against earnings. In connection with the accounting for the merger, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under U.S. GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets has been impaired. Amortizing intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and stockholders equity in future periods. Risks Related to the Company We continue to incur losses and may never reach profitability. We have incurred net losses in each of the last five fiscal years. As of March 31, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $52 million primarily because of costs relating to the development, including seeking regulatory approvals, and commercialization of our products. We expect our operating expenses relating to sales and marketing activities along with product development and clinical trials will continue to increase during the foreseeable future. To achieve profitability, we must generate substantially more revenue than we have in generated prior years. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our ability to successfully integrate our predecessor companies following the merger, to achieve widespread market acceptance of our products and successfully expand our business in the U.S. We may never achieve these objectives or otherwise become profitable. 20 Table of Contents The size and resources of our competitors may render it difficult for us to successfully compete in the marketplace. Our products compete against similar medical devices and other treatment methods, including drugs. Many of our competitors, which include some of the largest medical products and pharmaceutical companies in the world, have significantly greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. Our competitors could use and have used these resources to develop and/or acquire products that may be safer, more effective, less invasive, less expensive or more readily accepted than our products. Their products could make our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors could also devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our brand and our products from our competitors and their products and to obtain adequate reimbursement for procedures performed using our products. Factors affecting our competitive position include: ability to sell products tailored to meet the applications needs of our customers and patients; sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities; product performance and design; quality of customer support; product pricing; product safety; success and timing of new product development and introductions; and intellectual property protection. Our stock price may fluctuate and be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors, among others: actual or anticipated variations in operating results; conditions or trends in the medical device market; announcements of new or acquired products or technologies by us or our competitors; announcements by us or our competitors of significant customer wins or losses, gains or losses of distributors; technological innovations, new products or services; the success of our efforts to acquire or license additional products; additions or departures of key personnel; actual or expected sales of a large number of shares of our common stock; 21 Table of Contents availability of sources of capital; adverse litigation; unfavorable legislative or regulatory decisions; developments in U.S. or international reimbursement systems; variations in interest rates; general market and economic conditions; availability of components on acceptable terms; availability of distributor arrangements on favorable terms; and changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance or interpretations. In addition, the stock market in general, the NASDAQ Capital Market, and the market for shares of novel technology and medical device companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of life science companies have been unusually volatile in recent years, and such volatility may continue for the foreseeable future. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, this volatility and the low level of market liquidity for our common stock could adversely affect an investors ability to sell shares of our common stock and the available price for such shares, at any given time. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the targets of securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert management attention, which could seriously harm our business. We may attempt to acquire new products or technologies, and if we are unable to successfully complete these acquisitions or to integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or employees, we may fail to realize expected benefit or harm our existing business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may seek to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates and obtaining adequate financing can be difficult, time consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies into our operations, and the process of integration could be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, which could harm our existing business. In addition, future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results or cause a reduction in the price of our common stock. If we are not able to acquire or license other products, our business and future growth prospects could suffer. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to acquire or license additional products and technologies for development and commercialization. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right products and technologies. Products and technologies that we license or acquire may require additional development prior to sale, including clinical testing and approval by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, and we may encounter difficulties or delays in completing the development or receiving the necessary approvals. We may find that the product or technology cannot be manufactured economically or commercialized successfully. We may not be able to acquire or license the right to products on terms that we find acceptable, if at all. 22 Table of Contents Even if we complete future acquisitions, our business, financial condition and the results of operations could be negatively affected because we may be unable to integrate the acquired business or products successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefit in a timely manner; and/or the acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management team and divert our resources Product liability claims could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The manufacture and sale of our products exposes us to significant risk of product liability claims, some of which may have a negative impact on our business. Any defects or risks that we have not yet identified with our products may give rise to product liability claims. Our existing worldwide product liability insurance coverage of up to $10 million in liability may be inadequate to protect us from liabilities we may incur. We may also not be able to maintain adequate product liability insurance at acceptable rates. If a product liability claim (or series of claims) would be brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage, and ultimately it is determined that we are liable, our business could suffer. Additionally, we could experience a material design or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny that would warrant a recall of some of our products. A recall of any of our products likely would be costly, would be uninsured and could also result in increased product liability claims. Further, while we train our physician customers in the proper use of our products, we cannot be certain that they will implement our instructions accurately. If our products are used incorrectly by our customers, injury may result and this could give rise to product liability claims against us. Product quality problems could lead to reduced revenue, gross margins and net income. We produce highly complex videoscope products that incorporate sophisticated technology, including hardware and software. Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with operations. Our quality assurance testing programs may not be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, increase warranty repairs, or reduce gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in products that it had shipped. There can be no assurance that such a remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, a product recall, temporary or permanent withdrawal of a product from a market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, margins, and net income. We expect gross margins to vary over time, and our level of product gross margins may not be sustainable. The current levels of our product gross margins may not be sustainable and may continue to be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: obsolescence of components or products due to sales trends and new product introductions; our inability to reduce supply and production costs; increases in material or labor costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing, including the impact of foreign exchange rates for components purchased overseas; changes in distribution channels; increased warranty costs; and the uncertainty of the timing and amounts for recognizing our specified margin of Strykers gross profit after Stryker sells the products to their end customers. 23 Table of Contents The use and acceptance of certain of our products depends heavily upon the availability of third-party reimbursement for the procedures in which our products are used. In the U.S., healthcare providers that purchase medical devices, including our products, generally rely on third-party payers, including Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurance carriers and managed care organizations, to reimburse all or part of the cost and fees associated with the procedures performed using these devices. The commercial success of our products will depend on the ability of healthcare providers to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers for the procedures in which our products are used. Third-party payers are more frequently challenging the coverage and pricing of medical products and procedures. Even if a procedure is eligible for reimbursement, the level of reimbursement may not be adequate to justify the use of our products. In addition, third-party payers may deny reimbursement if they determine that the device used in the treatment was not cost-effective or was used for a non-approved indication, particularly if there is not a published Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, code for reimbursement. For example, in 2009, the American Medical Association advised the medical community that the previously recommended Category 1 CPT code for percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation, or PTNS, treatments should be replaced with an unlisted code. As a result, many third-party insurers delayed or denied reimbursement for PTNS treatments, significantly impacting the sales of our Urgent PC System, until a new code was effective in January 2011. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, with some countries offering government-sponsored healthcare or private insurance, or both. In many countries where there is government-sponsored healthcare reimbursement, decisions are made by individual hospitals with the government setting an upper limit of reimbursement. In most foreign countries, there are also insurance systems that may offer payments for alternative procedures. We cannot be certain that we, or in countries in which we work with our distributors, those distributors, will successfully and cost-effectively manage all of these payment systems. All third-party reimbursement programs, whether government-funded or insured commercially, inside the U.S. or outside, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling health care costs through prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, redesign of benefit, second opinions, careful review of bills, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of programs can potentially limit the amount that healthcare providers may be willing to pay for medical devices and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We cannot predict how quickly or how broadly the market will accept our products. In addition to the availability of third-party reimbursement, market acceptance of our products will depend on our ability to demonstrate the safety, clinical efficacy, perceived benefit, and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products or treatment options of our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in educating the marketplace about the benefit of our products. We may not have the resources to successfully market our products, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. The marketing of our products requires a significant amount of time and expense in order to identify the physicians who would use our products and to train a sales force that is large enough to interact with the targeted physicians. The ease and predictability of third-party reimbursement significantly impacts the success of our marketing activities. We may not have adequate resources to market our products successfully against larger competitors who have more resources than we do. If we cannot market our products successfully, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we are not able to attract, retain and motivate our sales force and expand our distribution channels, our sales and revenues will suffer. In the U.S., we have a sales organization consisting primarily of direct sales representatives, and a marketing organization to market our products directly and support our distributor organizations. We expect to expand our sales and marketing organization, as needed, to support our growth. We have and will continue to incur significant additional expenses to support this organization. We cannot be certain that our sales organization will be able to generate sales of our urology and endoscopy products at levels that justify our expense, or even if we can, that we will be able to recruit, train, motivate or retain qualified sales and marketing personnel. 24 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenue outside of the United States is through a network of independent distributors. Our ability to increase product sales in foreign markets will largely depend on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with our distributors and on their ability to successfully market and sell our products. We may not be able to retain distributors who are willing to commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. Failure to maintain or expand our distribution channels or to recruit, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and revenues. In addition, we have a limited ability to direct or influence the activities of our third-party, independent distributors. Our distributors could take one or more of the following actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and brand: sell products that compete with our products in breach of their non-competition agreements with us; fail to adequately promote our products; or fail to provide proper service to our end users. If we are unable to adequately manage our distribution network, or if our distributors fail to meet their obligations under their agreements with us, our corporate image among end users of our products could be damaged, resulting in a failure to meet our sales goals. In addition, foreign governments have increased their anti-bribery efforts in the healthcare sector to reduce improper payments received by hospital administrators and doctors in connection with the purchase of pharmaceutical products and medical devices. We are subject to the regulations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and are required to monitor our activities associated with our foreign sales. To our knowledge, none of our distributors engages in corrupt practices. However, our distributors may violate these laws or otherwise engage in illegal practices with respect to their sales or marketing of our products which would adversely affect our corporate image and business. Our distributors may not obtain regulatory approvals in a timely basis, if at all. We often rely on our distributors in countries outside the U.S. in seeking regulatory approval to market our products in particular countries. To the extent we do so, we are dependent on persons outside of our direct control to make regulatory submissions and secure approvals, and we do not, and will not, have direct access to health care agencies in those markets to ensure timely regulatory approvals or prompt resolution of regulatory or compliance matters. If our distributors fail to obtain the required approvals or do not do so in a timely manner, our sales from our international operations and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot attract and retain our key personnel and management team, we may not be able to manage and operate successfully, and we may not be able to meet our strategic objectives. Our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain and motivate our management team and key managerial, scientific, sales and technical personnel. Key personnel may depart because of difficulties with change or a desire not to remain with us. We are highly dependent on our senior management team, and any unanticipated loss or interruption of their services could significantly reduce our ability to meet our strategic objectives because, given the intense competition for senior management and other key personnel, it may not be possible for us to find appropriate replacement personnel should the need arise. The loss of a member of our senior management or our professional staff would require the remaining senior executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in retaining our current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future. Loss of key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate successfully. Further, our inability, if any, to enforce non-compete arrangements related to key personnel who have left the company could have a material adverse effect on our business. 25 Table of Contents If third parties claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue selling the affected product. The medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain and costly. We face the risk of claims that our products have infringed on third parties intellectual property rights. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: be expensive and time consuming for us to defend; result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties; cause us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products, if feasible; require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third partys intellectual property, which agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all; divert the attention of our management; or result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchases or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten our products continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect the proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of trademark laws and confidentiality, noncompetition and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep a competitive advantage. Our patents and patent applications, if issued, may not be broad enough to prevent competitors from introducing similar products into the market. Our patents, if challenged or if we attempt to enforce them, may not necessarily be upheld by the courts. In addition, patent protection in foreign countries may be different from patent protection under U.S. laws and may not be favorable to us. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all of our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary technology through the use of confidentiality and noncompetition agreements with our current key employees and with other parties to whom we have divulged trade secrets. However, these agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event competitors discover or independently develop similar proprietary information. Efforts on our part to enforce any of our proprietary rights could be time-consuming and expensive, which could adversely affect our business and prospects and divert our managements attention. 26 Table of Contents Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we use our networks to collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, and data relating to patients who use our products. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to our customers, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our operating margins, revenues and competitive position. The loss or interruption of materials from any of our key suppliers could delay the manufacture of our products, which would limit our ability to generate sales and revenues. We currently purchase several key materials used in our products from single source suppliers, including the finished products for our Urgent PC System. If one of these suppliers delayed or curtailed shipments to us, our ability to manufacture and deliver product would be impaired, our sales would decline or be curtailed for that product, and we would be forced to quickly locate an alternative source of supply. We cannot be sure that acceptable alternative arrangements could be made on a timely basis. Further, our reliance on such suppliers and the cost and difficulty we would encounter in qualifying an alternative subjects us to increased risk of price increase by single source suppliers. Additionally, the qualification of materials and processes as a result of a supplier change could be deemed as unacceptable to regulatory authorities and cause delays and increased costs due to additional test requirements. A significant interruption in the supply of materials, for any reason, could delay the manufacture and sale of our products, which would limit our ability to generate revenues. Certain components for our fiberscopes and videoscopes are generally only available from one source. Our inability to obtain any of these parts could delay or prevent us from making and selling products, which would have a material and adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Our borescopes are assembled using components and subassemblies purchased from independent vendors. While most components and subassemblies are currently available from more than one supplier, certain critical components are currently purchased only from limited key suppliers with which we do not have long or short term contracts. Our failure to obtain a sufficient quantity of such components on favorable terms could materially adversely affect the sales in our industrial business. Our medical products and manufacturing practices are subject to regulation by the FDA and by other state and foreign regulatory agencies. Our medical products are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and in the foreign countries where we do business. There can be no assurance that the required regulatory clearances will be obtained, and those obtained may include significant limitations on the uses of the product in question. In addition, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could make our regulatory compliance more difficult in the future. The failure to obtain required regulatory clearances or to comply with applicable regulations may result in fines, delays, suspensions of clearances, seizures, recalls of products, operating restrictions or criminal prosecutions, and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we are not able to maintain sufficient quality controls, regulatory approvals of our products by the European Union, Canada, the FDA or other relevant authorities could be delayed or denied and our sales and revenues will suffer. The FDA, European Union, Canada or other related authorities could stop or delay approval of production of products if our manufacturing facilities do not comply with applicable manufacturing requirements. The FDAs Quality System Regulations impose extensive testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance requirements. Canada and the European Union also impose requirements on quality systems of manufacturers, who are inspected and certified on a periodic basis and may be subject to additional unannounced inspections. Further, our suppliers are also subject to these regulatory requirements. Failure by any of our suppliers or us to comply with these requirements could prevent us from obtaining or retaining approval and marketing of our products. 27 Table of Contents Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our operating results. Because some of our business includes international business transactions, costs and prices of our products or components in overseas countries are affected by foreign exchange rate changes. As a result, foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Currently, we do not have any foreign exchange forward contracts and we do not hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. We derive a significant portion of our sales from outside of the U.S. and are subject to the risks of international operations. We derived approximately 25% of our net sales in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 from customers and operations in international markets. The sale and shipping of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to a number of risks, including: the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; the imposition of costly and lengthy export licensing requirements; local political and economic instability; fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies; difficulties in recruiting and maintaining distributors and staff in remote locations, including sales people; changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; the imposition of new trade restrictions; the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; foreign taxation compliance and penalties; pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; laws and business practices favoring local companies; longer payment cycles; difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; and difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights. We cannot assure that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits covered entities and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other benefit. In addition, the FCPA imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of off books slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. We also are subject to similar anticorruption legislation implemented in Europe under the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Developments Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. We either operate or plan to operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential violations of the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, and we utilize a number of distributors for whose actions we could be held liable under the FCPA and other anticorruption laws. We inform our personnel, distributors and agents of the requirements of the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, including, but not limited to their reporting requirements. We also have developed and will continue to develop and implement systems for formalizing contracting processes, performing due diligence on personnel, distributors and agents and improving our recordkeeping and auditing practices regarding these regulations. However, there is no guarantee that our personnel, distributors or agents have not or will not engage in conduct undetected by our processes and for which we might be held responsible under the FCPA or other anticorruption laws. 28 Table of Contents If our personnel, distributors or agents are found to have engaged in practices in violation of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws, we could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other remedial measures, including further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, as well as potential personnel changes and disciplinary actions. During the past few years, the SEC has increased our enforcement of violations of the FCPA against companies, including several medical device companies. Although we do not believe we are currently a target, any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities also could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Certain foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to prohibitions as strict as those under the FCPA or, even if subjected to strict prohibitions, such prohibitions may be laxly enforced in practice. If our competitors engage in corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft or other fraudulent practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business, or from government officials, who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. We may attempt to acquire new products or technologies, and if we are unable to successfully complete these acquisitions or to integrate acquired businesses, products, technologies or employees, we may fail to realize expected benefit or harm our existing business. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our product offerings and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may seek to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates and obtaining adequate financing can be difficult, time-consuming and/or costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products or technologies into our operations, and the process of integration could be expensive, and/or time-consuming and may strain our resources. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, which could harm our existing business. In addition, future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges such as in-process research and development, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results or cause a reduction in the price of our common stock. If we are not able to acquire or license other products, our business and future growth prospects could suffer. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to acquire or license additional products and technologies for development and commercialization. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right products and technologies. Products and technologies that we license or acquire may require additional development prior to sale, including clinical testing and approval by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, and we may encounter difficulties or delays in completing the development or receiving the necessary approvals. We may find that the product or technology cannot be manufactured economically or commercialized successfully. We may not be able to acquire or license the right to products on terms that we find acceptable, if at all. Even if we complete future acquisitions, our business, financial condition and the results of operations could be negatively affected because we may be unable to integrate the acquired business or products successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefit in a timely manner and/or the acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management team and divert our resources. 29 Table of Contents Our corporate documents contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the company. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition, even if our stockholders consider the terms favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for a staggered board of directors, requiring our directors to serve for three-year terms, with approximately one third of the directors standing for reelection each year. A staggered board could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. Our officers and directors have the ability to exercise significant control over the company. As of June 15, 2015, our officers and directors owned an aggregate of approximately 14.1% of outstanding shares of our common stock. Under a convertible note dated September 19, 2012, as amended (the 2012 Note), Mr. Lewis C. Pell, a member of our Board of Directors, at his option at any time prior to maturity, but not until after three years following the effective date of the merger or, if earlier, three days prior to the record date for the declaration of any dividend or distribution on our common stock in cash or other property other than common stock , has the right to convert the unpaid principal balance, which was $20.0 million as of June 15, 2015, into 3,333,333 shares of our common stock. Under a convertible note dated September 25, 2013, as amended (the 2013 Note), Mr. Pell, at his option at any time prior to maturity, but not until after three years following the effective date of the merger or, if earlier, three days prior to the record date for the declaration of any dividend or distribution on our common stock in cash or other property other than common stock, has the right to convert the unpaid principal balance, which was $3.5 million as of June 15, 2015, into additional 786,516 shares of our common stock. Under a convertible promissory note dated June 16, 2014 (the 2014 Note), Mr. Pell, at his option has the right to convert the unpaid principal balance, which was $4.99 million as of June 15, 2015, into additional 899,099 shares of our common stock. Mr. Pell also has three warrants to purchase an aggregate of 376,123 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $9.31 per share. The conversion of the 2012 Note, the 2013 Note and the 2014 Note and exercise of the warrants would increase the aggregate ownership of our officers and directors (assuming that our other directors and officers exercise their options) to approximately 34.2% of outstanding shares of our common stock as of June 15, 2015. As such, our directors and officers exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the company or forcing management to change our operating strategies, which may be to the benefit of management but not in the interest of the stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease an 18,258 square-foot office, warehouse and manufacturing facility in Minnetonka, Minnesota for our corporate headquarters pursuant to a lease agreement with Liberty Property Limited Partnership expiring in June 2019. At the Minnetonka facility, we also manufacture Macroplastique and warehouse and ship Urgent PC and Macroplastique. We lease a 20,500 square-foot office, warehouse and manufacturing facility in Orangeburg, New York pursuant to a lease agreement with GHP Office Realty, LLC that expires in August 2017. At the Orangeburg facility, we manufacture our advanced line of endoscopy-based medical products, including our flexible fiber and video endoscopes, for a variety of specialties and markets and industrial borescopes to a variety of users, primarily in the aircraft engine manufacturing and aircraft engine maintenance industries. We lease a 9,835 square foot office, warehouse and manufacturing facility in Natick, Massachusetts, where we manufacture EndoSheath, pursuant to a lease agreement with Yellow Brick, LLC, assignee of Nivek Investments I, LLC, which expires in August 2015. 30 Table of Contents On April 2, 2015, we leased approximately 24,400 square feet in Westborough, Massachusetts pursuant to a lease agreement with Glenborough Flanders Park, LLC expiring in December 2025. Upon the expiration of Natick lease, we intend to relocate our current EndoSheath manufacturing to this facility. We own 9,774 square feet of office and warehouse space in Geleen, The Netherlands. At this facility, we maintain our European headquarters and warehouse and ship Urgent PC and Macroplastique. We believe that these facilities are suitable and adequate for our operations for the foreseeable future. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are not involved in any material active legal actions, however, from time to time may be subject to various pending or threatened legal actions and proceedings, including those that arise in the ordinary course of its business. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and to outcomes that are not predictable with assurance and that may not be known for extended periods of time. Litigation Related to the Merger On January 7, 2015, a putative class action complaint was filed in the District Court, Fourth Judicial District, County of Hennepin, State of Minnesota, by a purported shareholder of Uroplasty under the caption Joseph J. Frustaci vs. Uroplasty, Inc., et al. , C.A. No. 27-cv-15-305. The complaint named as defendants Uroplasty, Vision, Merger Sub and the members of the Uroplasty board of directors. The complaint asserted various causes of action, including, among other things, that the members of the Uroplasty board of directors breached their fiduciary duties owed to the Uroplasty shareholders in connection with entering into the merger agreement and approving the merger. The complaint further alleged Uroplasty, Vision-Sciences and Merger Sub aided and abetted the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties by the Uroplasty board of directors. The plaintiff sought, among other things, injunctive relief enjoining or rescinding the merger and an award of attorneys fees and costs. Defendants moved to dismiss the matter and opposed a motion filed by the Plaintiff seeking a preliminary injunction. On March 27, 2015, the District Court denied Plaintiffs motion for an injunction and granted Defendants motion to dismiss the case. On March 3, 2015, a putative class action complaint was filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, by a purported shareholder of Vision Sciences under the caption Alec Jaret v. Vision-Sciences, Inc., et al. , Case No 10745. The complaint named as defendants, Vision, Uroplasty, Merger Sub and the members of the Vision board of directors. The complaint asserted various causes of action, including, among other things, that the members of the Vision board of directors breached their fiduciary duties owed to the Vision shareholders in connection with entering into the merger agreement and approving the merger. The complaint further alleged Uroplasty, Vision and Merger Sub aided and abetted the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties by the Vision board of directors. The plaintiff sought, among other things, injunctive relief enjoining or rescinding the merger and an award of attorneys fees and costs. On June 11, 2015, counsel for the named plaintiff indicated that the plaintiff intended to voluntarily dismiss the case. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 31 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol CGNT. Prior to the completion of the Merger on March 31, 2015, our stock traded under the symbol VSCI. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices for our common stock for each of our full quarterly periods within the two most recent fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Markets. These prices have been adjusted to reflect the one to five reverse stock split that occurred on March 31, 2015. Fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 Low High First Quarter $ 4.80 $ 6.45 Second Quarter $ 4.25 $ 6.20 Third Quarter $ 3.36 $ 6.10 Fourth Quarter $ 1.75 $ 3.62 Fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 Low High First Quarter $ 4.45 $ 5.75 Second Quarter $ 4.15 $ 5.50 Third Quarter $ 3.90 $ 7.50 Fourth Quarter $ 4.92 $ 8.75 As of June 15, 2015, we had approximately 332 holders of record of our common stock. Registered ownership includes nominees who may hold securities on behalf of multiple beneficial owners. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans. The following table provides particular information regarding our equity compensation plans as of March 31, 2015. Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights (a) Weighted-Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights (b) Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in the column (a)) (c) Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders (1) 1,960,437 $ 5.57 1,240,797 Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders (2) 290,646 $ 3.62 - Total 2,251,083 $ 5.32 1,240,797 (1) Consists of options outstanding under the Uroplasty, Inc. 2006 Amended Stock and Incentive Plan, as amended, the Vision-Sciences, Inc. 2000 Plan, the Vision-Sciences, Inc. 2003 Director Option Plan and the Vision-Sciences, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. (2) Represents non-qualified options to purchase shares of our common stock (all of which are vested), granted outside of any plan to two former executive officers in fiscal 2005 and 2006. Such option awards expire between November 2015 and May 2016. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Summary Statement of Operations Data (in thousands except per share data) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Net sales $ 26,526 $ 24,577 $ 22,418 $ 20,562 $ 13,787 Gross profit 23,401 21,527 19,403 17,525 11,401 Operating loss (7,648 ) (5,299 ) (3,301 ) (4,266 ) (4,698 ) Net loss (7,709 ) (5,353 ) (3,305 ) (4,250 ) (4,648 ) Basic and diluted loss per share $ (0.49 ) $ (0.35 ) $ (0.22 ) $ (0.28 ) $ (0.34 ) Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding 15,753 15,345 15,097 15,034 13,714 Other data Share-based expense and depreciation and amortization $ 1,857 $ 1,790 $ 1,965 $ 1,803 $ 1,553 There were no cash dividends declared for all periods presented. Summary Balance Sheet Data (in thousands) At March 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Working capital $ 11,860 $ 12,623 $ 12,621 $ 13,081 $ 14,650 Total assets 56,753 17,301 20,041 22,291 25,727 Long-term obligation convertible debt 22,529 - - - - Shareholders equity 22,748 13,214 16,686 19,235 22,629 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read this discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with, and we qualify our discussion in its entirety by, the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere within this report, the material contained under Part 1, Item 1. Description of Business and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this report, and the cautionary disclosure about forward-looking statements at the front of Part I of this report. Overview Cogentix Medical is a global medical device company. We design, develop, manufacture and market innovative proprietary technologies serving the urology and airway management markets. The Urgent PC Neuromodulation System is an FDA-cleared device that delivers percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS) for the office-based treatment of overactive bladder (OAB). The FDA-cleared EndoSheath Systems combine state-of-the-art endoscopic technology with a sterile, disposable microbial barrier, providing practitioners and healthcare facilities with a solution to meet the growing need for safe, efficient and cost-effective flexible endoscopy. We also offer Macroplastique a urethral bulking agent for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence. Outside the U.S., the company markets additional bulking agents: PTQ for the treatment of fecal incontinence and the VOX for vocal cord augmentation. On December 21, 2014, Vision-Sciences entered into a merger agreement with Uroplasty, a publicly traded corporation. The merger agreement provided for the merger of Uroplasty with and into a newly created, wholly-owned merger subsidiary of Vision-Sciences. Following the approval of the merger by Vision-Sciences and Uroplastys stockholders on March 30, 2015 and pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, on March 31, 2015, Uroplasty merged with and into the Merger Sub, with Merger Sub continuing as the surviving entity and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vision-Sciences under the name Uroplasty, LLC. Vision-Sciences changed its name to Cogentix Medical, Inc. 33 Table of Contents The merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition due to a number of factors including the relative voting interests in the combined company of the former Vision-Sciences and Uroplasty stockholders following the merger. As a result, Uroplasty and its consolidated subsidiaries represent the accounting acquirer in the merger, and Vision and its consolidated subsidiary represent the legal acquirer in the merger. Accordingly, while Vision was the legal acquirer in the merger, Uroplasty is treated as the acquiring company in the merger for accounting purposes. As a result of the merger, our financial statements prior to March 31, 2015 are the historical financial statements of Uroplasty, and our financial statements on and after March 31, 2015 reflect the results of the operations of Uroplasty and Vision-Sciences on a combined basis. We refer you to Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional description of this merger, the accounting treatment of the merger, and the pro forma financial information for Cogentix on a combined basis. Critical Accounting Policies We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which require us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported. In preparing these consolidated financial statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of certain amounts, giving due consideration to materiality. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, the following can be characterized as critical accounting policies and are particularly important to the portrayal of our results of operations and financial position. These critical policies may require the application of a higher level of judgment by us, and as a result are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605 (Topic 605, Revenue Recognition ) . ASC 605 requires that five basic criteria must be met before revenue can be recognized: 1. persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists; 2. delivery has occurred or services were rendered; 3. the fee is fixed and determinable; 4. collectability is reasonably assured; and 5. the fair value of undelivered elements, if any, exists. We recognize revenue when title passes to the customer, generally upon shipment of our products F.O.B. shipping point. Revenue for service repairs of equipment is recognized after service has been completed, and service contract revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the contract. We include shipping and handling charges billed to customers in net sales, and include related costs incurred by us in cost of goods sold. Typically our agreements contain no customer acceptance provisions or clauses. We sell our products to end users and to distributors. Payment terms range from prepayment to 120 days. The distributor payment terms are not contingent on the distributor selling the product to end users. Customers do not have the right to return products except for warranty claims. We offer customary product warranties. Accounts Receivable We grant credit to our customers in the normal course of business and, generally, do not require collateral or any other security to support amounts due. If necessary, we have an outside party assist us with performing credit and reference checks and establishing credit limits for the customer. Accounts outstanding longer than the contractual payment terms, are considered past due. We carry our accounts receivable at the original invoice amount less an estimated allowance for doubtful receivables based on a periodic review of all outstanding amounts. We determine the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the customers financial health, and both historical and expected credit loss experience. We write off our accounts receivable when we deem them uncollectible. We record recoveries of accounts receivable previously written off when received. We are not always able to timely anticipate changes in the financial condition of our customers and if circumstances related to these customers deteriorate, our estimates of the recoverability of accounts receivable could be materially affected and we may be required to record additional allowances. Alternatively, if more allowances are provided than are ultimately required, we may reverse a portion of such provisions in future periods based on the actual collection experience. Historically, the accounts receivable balances we have written off have generally been within our expectations. 34 Table of Contents Inventories We state inventories at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out method. We value at lower of cost or market the slow moving and obsolete inventories based upon current and expected future product sales and the expected impact of product transitions or modifications. Historically, the inventory write-offs have generally been within our expectations. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Our long-lived assets consist of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We measure the recoverability of assets to be held and used by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. We use judgment to forecast future cash flows including forecasting revenues and margins, and working capital needs. If we consider such assets impaired, we measure the impairment to be recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Share-Based Compensation We account for share-based compensation costs under ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation. ASC 718 covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including stock options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights, and employee share purchase plans. We recognize the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions, including grants of employee stock options and restricted shares, in our financial statements. We measure that cost based on the fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. Long-Term Incentive Plan and Awards Awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) are accounted for as liability awards as the awards are based on the performance of our common stock and are expected to be settled in cash. The fair value of the awards is calculated on a quarterly basis using a Monte Carlo valuation model and is recognized over the derived service period. Vesting of the awards is based on the probability of meeting the stock price criteria, the probability of which is considered in determining the estimated fair value. Defined Benefit Pension Plans We have a liability attributed to defined benefit pension plans we offered to certain former and current employees of our subsidiaries in the UK and the Netherlands. The liability is dependent upon numerous factors, assumptions and estimates, and the continued benefit costs we incur may be significantly affected by changes in key actuarial assumptions such as the discount rate, mortality, compensation rates, or retirement dates used to determine the projected benefit obligation. Additionally, changes made to the provisions of the plans may impact current and future benefit costs. Changes in benefit obligations associated with these factors are recognized in future years over the expected average future service of the active employees or the average remaining life expectancies of inactive employees. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates we expect to apply to taxable income in the years in which we expect to recover or settle those temporary differences. As of March 31, 2015, we have generated approximately $55 million for UPI and $78 million for VSCI in U.S. net operating loss (NOL) carry forwards that we cannot use to offset taxable income in foreign jurisdictions. We recognize a valuation allowance when we determine it is more likely than not that we will not realize a portion of the deferred tax asset. We have established a valuation allowance for U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty that we will generate enough income in those taxing jurisdictions to utilize the assets. 35 Table of Contents In addition, future utilization of NOL carry forwards is subject to certain limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. This section generally relates to a 50 percent change in ownership of a company over a three-year period. For UPI, we believe that the issuance of our common stock in the December 2006 follow-on public offering resulted in an "ownership change" under Section 382. Accordingly, our ability to use NOL tax attributes generated prior to December 2006 is limited to approximately $750,000 per year. Additionally, we believe there was an ownership change in December 2012. Accordingly, our ability to use NOL tax attributes generated after December 2006 and before December 2012 is limited to approximately $2,000,000 per year. Further, as a result of the merger, we believe there was an ownership change in March 2015. Our ability to use NOL tax attributes generated after December 2012 and before March 31, 2015 is limited to approximately $1,200,000 per year. At March 31, 2015, VSCI had NOL carry forwards of approximately $78 million for U.S. income tax purposes, which expire at various dates through 2035. The merger transaction caused an ownership change as of March 31, 2015. We have not performed a detailed analysis to determine whether an ownership change prior to March 31, 2015 had occurred. Such a change of ownership could limit our utilization of the net operating losses, and could be triggered by subsequent sales of securities by us or our stockholders. We refer you to Note 8 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for further discussion. Results of Operations The reported operations for fiscal 2015 and prior years include only the results of UPI. Results of VSCI will be included beginning on April 1, 2015, the day after the merger closed. As such, starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2016, our reported numbers will be materially different than the reported numbers of the same period of the prior years. Net Sales. In fiscal 2015 , consolidated net sales of $26.5 million represented a $1.9 million, or an 8% increase, over net sales of $24.6 million in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2013 , consolidated net sales of $22.4 million represented a $1.9 million, or a 9% increase, over net sales of $20.6 million in fiscal 2012. The increase in consolidated net sales is attributed to the sales growth of our Urgent PC System. Net sales to customers in the U.S. of $20.0 million in fiscal 2015, represented an increase of $1.9 million, or 11%, over net sales of $18.0 million in fiscal 2014. Net sales to customers in the U.S. of $18.0 million in fiscal 2014, represented an increase of $1.6 million, or 10%, over net sales of $16.4 million in fiscal 2013. Net sales in the U.S. of our Urgent PC System increased 17% to $14.4 million in fiscal 2015, from $12.3 million last year. Net sales in the U.S. of our Urgent PC System of $12.3 million in fiscal 2014 increased 17% from $10.5 million in fiscal 2013. Net sales increased as a result of improved sales execution of our Urgent PC System within the U.S. resulting in an increase in the number of active customers, primarily due to new account conversions and improved customer retention rates. Net sales in the U.S. of our Macroplastique product decreased 3%, or $165,000, to $5.4 million in fiscal 2015, compared to fiscal 2014. Net sales in the U.S. of our Macroplastique product decreased 2%, or $121,000 to $5.6 million in fiscal 2014, compared to fiscal 2013. Macroplastique serves a small market and the focus of our sales force has been on Urgent PC. Net sales to customers outside the U.S. in fiscal 2015 increased $21,000 to $6.6 million, compared to $6.5 million in fiscal 2014. Net sales to customers outside the U.S. in fiscal 2014 increased 9% to $6.5 million compared to $6.0 million in fiscal 2013. Urgent PC System sales to customers outside of the U.S. of $3.1 million in fiscal 2015 increased 14% from $2.7 million in fiscal 2014. The increase in sales is attributed to the increase in adoption of the product by our customers, primarily in markets where we sell to hospitals directly. Urgent PC System sales to customers outside of the U.S. of $2.7 million in fiscal 2014 increased 29% from $2.1 million in fiscal 2013. Macroplastique sales to customers outside of the U.S. decreased 9% to $2.5 million in fiscal 2015 over fiscal 2014 and Macroplastique sales to customers outside of the U.S. decreased 2% to $2.8 million in fiscal 2014 over fiscal 2013. The sales decrease is attributed primarily to the shift in sales focus from Macroplastique to Urgent PC. Gross Profit: Gross profit was $23.4 million (88.2% of net sales) in fiscal 2015, $21.5 million (87.6% of net sales) in fiscal 2014, and $19.4 million (86.6% of net sales) in fiscal 2013. 36 Table of Contents The 0.6% increase in the gross profit percentage in fiscal 2015 is attributed primarily to a 0.4% impact of a favorable product mix, and a 0.2% impact from an increase in capacity absorption. The 1.0% increase in the gross profit percentage in fiscal 2014 is attributed primarily to a 0.2% impact of a favorable product mix, a 0.2% impact from an increase in capacity absorption, and a 0.3% impact from reduced royalty payments. Starting with fiscal 2014, we no longer pay royalties on sales of our bulking agent products in markets outside of the U.S. General and Administrative Expenses (G&A): G&A expenses of $8.0 million during fiscal 2015 increased $1.4 million from $6.5 million during fiscal 2014. The increase in expenses is due to primarily due to one-time merger related costs of $2.4 million, partially offset by a decrease in legal and accounting costs of $1.1 million which were incurred in the prior year for certain internal control issues. G&A expenses of $6.5 million during fiscal 2014 increased $2.3 million from $4.2 million during fiscal 2013. Changes in executive management attributed to $1.0 million of this increase, of which $696,000 is non-cash, share based compensation expense. Further, we incurred $1.1 million in legal and accounting fees pertaining to the review of certain internal control issues in the first and second quarter of fiscal 2014. Research and Development Expenses (R&D): R&D expenses of $2.9 million during fiscal 2015, increased $700,000 from $2.2 million in fiscal 2014. The increase is attributed primarily to $266,000 of costs attributed to clinical studies, $250,000 related to personnel costs and $147,000 in costs for consulting and sponsorships. R&D expenses of $2.2 million during fiscal 2014, decreased $0.2 million from $2.4 million in fiscal 2013. The decrease is attributed primarily to a $389,000 expense in the prior fiscal year for product testing and validation of the planned replacement of components for one of our products, offset by an $189,000 increase in costs attributed to clinical studies. Selling and Marketing Expenses (S&M): S&M expenses of $20.2 million in fiscal 2015 increased $2.1 million from $18.1 million in fiscal 2014. The increase is attributed primarily to a $1.9 million increase in personnel and travel costs due to the expansion and reorganization of our selling and marketing team, and a $333,000 increase in marketing costs related to product promotion and education, advertising, trade shows and conventions. S&M expenses of $18.1 million in fiscal 2014 increased $2.9 million from $15.2 million in fiscal 2013. The increase is attributed primarily to a $2.2 million increase in personnel and travel costs due to the expansion and reorganization of our selling and marketing team, $234,000 increase related to the Medical Device Tax, and $189,000 in increased marketing costs related to product promotion and education, advertising, trade shows and conventions. Amortization of Intangibles: Amortization of intangibles was $31,000 in fiscal 2015, $30,000 in fiscal 2014, and $863,000 in fiscal 2013. In April 2007, we acquired from CystoMedix, Inc., certain intellectual property assets related to the Urgent PC system for $4.7 million, which became fully amortized in fiscal 2013. Other Income (Expense): Other income (expense) includes interest income, interest expense, foreign currency exchange and other non-operating costs when incurred. Net other income was $4,000, $17,000 and $47,000 for fiscal 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Other income decreased primarily as the result of a decrease in interest income on lower cash and investment balances and interest rates. We recognize exchange gains and losses primarily as a result of fluctuations in currency rates between the U.S. dollar (the functional reporting currency) and the Euro and British pound (currencies of our subsidiaries), as well as their effect on the dollar denominated short-term intercompany obligations between us and our foreign subsidiaries. In fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014, and fiscal 2013 we recorded foreign currency exchange (losses) gains of $(4,000), $(5,000), and $2,000, respectively. Income Tax Expense: In fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014, and fiscal 2013, we recorded income tax expense of $66,000, $72,000 and $51,000, respectively. Income tax expense is attributed to our foreign subsidiaries and to the payment of minimum state taxes in the U.S. We cannot use our U.S. net operating loss carry forwards to offset taxable income in foreign jurisdictions. Our actual income tax expense differs from the statutory federal income tax benefit largely due to the recording of valuation allowances in all three periods presented. 37 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures: The following table reconciles our operating loss calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) to non-GAAP financial measures that exclude non-cash charges for share-based compensation, and depreciation and amortization from gross profit, operating expenses and operating loss. The non-GAAP financial measures used by management and disclosed by us are not a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures and consolidated financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP, and you should carefully evaluate our reconciliations to non-GAAP. We may calculate our non-GAAP financial measures differently from similarly titled measures used by other companies. Therefore, our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to those used by other companies. We have described the reconciliations of each of our non-GAAP financial measures described above to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. We use these non-GAAP financial measures, and in particular non-GAAP operating loss, for internal managerial purposes and incentive compensation for senior management because we believe such measures are one important indicator of the strength and the operating performance of our business. Analysts and investors frequently ask us for this information. We believe that they use these measures to evaluate the overall operating performance of companies in our industry, including as a means of comparing period-to-period results and as a means of evaluating our results with those of other companies. Expense Adjustments GAAP Share- based Expense Long-term Incentive Plan Depreciation Disposal of Assets Amortization of Intangibles Non-GAAP Year Ended March 31, 2015 Gross Profit $ 23,401,000 $ 47,000 $ - $ 17,000 $ - $ - $ 23,465,000 % of Net sales 88.2 % 88.5 % Operating Expenses: General & administrative 7,956,000 (977,000 ) (153,000 ) (153,000 ) (1,000 ) - 6,672,000 Research and development 2,851,000 (52,000 ) - (2,000 ) - - 2,797,000 Selling and marketing 20,210,000 (313,000 ) - (76,000 ) (38,000 ) - 19,783,000 Amortization 31,000 - - - (31,000 ) - 31,048,000 (1,342,000 ) (153,000 ) (231,000 ) (39,000 ) (31,000 ) 29,252,000 Operating Loss $ (7,647,000 ) $ 1,389,000 $ 153,000 $ 248,000 $ 39,000 $ 31,000 $ (5,787,000 ) Transaction costs 2,400,000 Operating Loss excluding transaction costs (3,387,000 ) Year Ended March 31, 2014 Gross Profit $ 21,527,000 $ 27,000 $ - $ 33,000 $ - $ - $ 21,587,000 % of Net sales 87.6 % 87.8 % Operating Expenses General & administrative 6,522,000 (1,117,000 ) - (200,000 ) - - 5,205,000 Research and development 2,151,000 (51,000 ) - (4,000 ) - - 2,096,000 Selling and marketing 18,123,000 (241,000 ) - (86,000 ) - - 17,796,000 Amortization 30,000 - - - - (30,000 ) - 26,826,000 (1,409,000 ) - (290,000 ) - (30,000 ) 25,097,000 Operating Loss $ (5,299,000 ) $ 1,436,000 $ - $ 323,000 $ - $ 30,000 $ (3,510,000 ) Year Ended March 31, 2013 Gross Profit $ 19,403,000 $ 31,000 $ - $ 34,000 $ - $ - $ 19,468,000 % of Net sales 86.6 % 86.8 % Operating Expenses General & administrative 4,188,000 (473,000 ) - (196,000 ) - - 3,519,000 Research and development 2,415,000 (54,000 ) - (3,000 ) - - 2,358,000 Selling and marketing 15,238,000 (254,000 ) - (57,000 ) - - 14,927,000 Amortization 863,000 - - - - (863,000 ) - 22,704,000 (781,000 ) - (256,000 ) - (863,000 ) 20,804,000 Operating Loss $ (3,301,000 ) $ 812,000 $ - $ 290,000 $ - $ 863,000 $ (1,336,000 ) 38 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows At March 31, 2015, our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments balances totaled $9.3 million. At March 31, 2015, we had working capital of approximately $11.9 million. Cash used in operating activities was $4.4 million in fiscal 2015, $2.9 million in fiscal 2014 and $1.2 million in fiscal 2013. We used this cash primarily to fund the operating loss, net of non-cash charges for depreciation, amortization of intangibles and equity compensation, of $1.3 million, $3.6 million, and $1.3 million in fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, respectively. We have continued to show an operating loss because we have continued to invest, primarily in selling and marketing, to grow our U.S. business. The fiscal 2015 net loss includes nonrecurring cash expenses of $2.4 million attributed to costs primarily for legal and accounting fees associated with our merger. In fiscal 2015, we generated $3.4 million of net cash from the sale of marketable securities and $2 million in cash from the merger with Vision-Sciences, compared with $7.9 million and $195,000 of net cash generated from the sale of marketable securities in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. In fiscal 2015, we used $421,000 to purchase property, plant and equipment compared with approximately $248,000 in fiscal 2014, and approximately $190,000 in fiscal 2013. The increase in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 is related to the purchase of new computer equipment for our sales force and for the merger of our IT systems with VSCI. The increase in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 is related to the purchase of new computer equipment for our sales force. In fiscal 2015, we generated proceeds from financing activities of $68,000 from the exercise of stock options, $360,000 in fiscal 2014, and $150,000 in fiscal 2013. Sources of Liquidity We plan to obtain additional debt and/or equity financing during fiscal 2016. While we believe that the $9.3 million of cash and short-term investments we maintained at March 31, 2015 is adequate to meet our needs for the next twelve months, we further believe that it is prudent to seek this additional debt and/or equity financing. We have historically not generated cash from operations because we have yet to achieve profitability, and to achieve profitability, we must generate substantially more revenue than we have generated this year or in prior years. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our ability to achieve widespread market acceptance of our products and successfully expand our business in the U.S. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully achieve such revenue growth. If we fail to meet our projections of profitability and cash flow, or determine to use cash for matters we are not currently projecting, we may need to seek additional financing to meet our cash needs. We cannot assure you that such financing, if needed, will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Convertible Debt Arrangements Related Party The following table is a summary of our convertible debt related party at March 31, 2015 (in thousands): Gross Principal Amount Unamortized Debt Discount Net Amount Convertible DebtRelated Party Note Payable A $ 20,000,000 $ (4,210,000 ) $ 15,790,000 Note Payable B 3,500,000 (650,000 ) 2,850,000 Note Payable C 4,990,000 (1,101,000 ) 3,889,000 $ 28,490,000 $ (5,961,000 ) $ 22,529,000 39 Table of Contents The Convertible Debt-Related Party is held by Mr. Lewis C. Pell, a member of Cogentixs board of directors, and consists of three convertible promissory notes: Note Payable A accrues annual interest at the rate of 0.84%. The outstanding principal amount of Note Payable A is convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $6.00 per share. Note Payable B accrues annual interest at the rate of 1.66%. The outstanding principal amount of Note Payable B is convertible into shares of our common stock at a converted price of $4.45. Note Payable C accrues annual interest at the rate of 1.91%. The outstanding principal amount of Note Payable C is convertible into shares of our common stock at a converted price of $5.55. At March 31, 2015, we had an aggregate amount of $524,000 in accrued interest under the convertible notes payable, which is included in accrued expenses on our consolidated balance sheet. The convertible promissory notes mature on March 31, 2020 or earlier upon a change of control (as defined). The convertible promissory notes generally cannot be converted prior to March 31, 2018. The convertible promissory notes may be converted earlier prior to a change in control or in connection with our prepayment of the convertible promissory notes. The convertible promissory notes may be prepaid, at our option and upon 15 days notice to Mr. Pell, without other premium or penalty, with a combination of cash and common stock. Interest on the convertible promissory notes is payable on the maturity date or upon repayment or conversion of all or any portion of the principal under the note. The convertible promissory notes were amended concurrently with the execution of the merger agreement to extend the maturity from the fifth anniversary their issuance dates to the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the merger and change the conversion date from anytime to generally not earlier than three years after the effective date of the merger. Under purchase accounting for the merger, the convertible promissory notes were recorded at fair value, resulting in a discount from their face value of $5,960,000. The discount is being amortized over the remaining term based on the effective interest rate method with an imputed interest rate of 4.72%. The amendments to the convertible notes payable were considered to be part of an arrangement entered into between Mr. Pell and Vision-Sciences during the merger negotiations that were separate from the business combination. Accordingly, the fair value of the notes was based on the terms that existed prior to the amendment. The fair value of the notes was determined using a lattice model with key assumptions of a risk free rate of 1.37%, market interest rate of 10.3%, and annualized volatility of 65%, less any increase in the fair value of the conversion feature resulting from the amendments. The increase in the fair value of the conversion feature was based on a comparative analysis of the conversion feature's value under both the original terms and modified terms using the same key assumptions. Warrants to purchase shares of our common stock originally issued in connection with the issuance of the convertible promissory notes are described in Note 5 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. We estimated the fair value of all of the warrants using a Black-Scholes valuation model that used the weighted average assumptions for the risk-free interest rate, expected life (in years), and expected volatility. We recorded the transaction as a deferred debt cost and amortized to expense over the term of the loan. 40 Table of Contents Commitments and Contingencies Future payments under our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2015, consisting of royalties, purchase commitments, and operating leases, are summarized below: Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than 5 Years Minimum royalty payments (a) $ 81,000 $ 81,000 $ - $ - $ - Minimum purchase agreement (b) 469,000 382,000 67,000 20,000 - Operating lease commitments (c) 3,256,000 773,000 1,264,000 493,000 726,000 Total contractual obligations $ 3,806,000 $ 1,236,000 $ 1,331,000 $ 513,000 $ 726,000 (a) Under a royalty agreement, we pay royalties of five percent of net sales of Macroplastique in countries where a patent is filed, subject to a monthly minimum of $4,500. The royalties payable under this agreement will continue until certain patents referenced in the agreement expire in 2015. Under a license agreement for the Macroplastique, we pay a royalty of 10 Great Britain Pounds for each unit sold during the life of the patent. We recognized an aggregate of $274,000, $285,000 and $353,000 of royalty expense, under these agreements in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. (b) In our normal course of business we have commitments, generally for periods of less than twelve months, to purchase from various vendors finished goods and manufacturing components under issued purchase orders. (c) Operating lease commitments include a long-term lease with Liberty Property Limited Partnership for an 18,258 square foot facility for our U.S. headquarters located at 5420 Feltl Road, Minnetonka, Minnesota. The lease, which had an original expiration date in April 2014, was amended in January 2014. The amended lease began on May 1, 2014, has a term of 62 months and requires average annual minimum rent payments of approximately $154,000. We lease a 20,500 square-foot office, warehouse and manufacturing facility in Orangeburg, New York pursuant to a lease agreement with GHP Office Realty, LLC that expires in August 2017. The lease requires average annual minimum rent payments of approximately $349,000. We also lease a 9,835 square foot office, warehouse and manufacturing facility in Natick, Massachusetts pursuant to a lease agreement with Yellow Brick, LLC, assignee of Nivek Investments I, LLC, which expires in August 2015. The amount of rent payments remaining on the lease is approximately $53,000. On April 2, 2015, we leased approximately 24,400 square feet in Westborough, Massachusetts pursuant to a lease agreement with Glenborough Flanders Park, LLC expiring in December 2025. The lease requires average annual minimum rent payments of approximately $134,000. We have a defined benefit pension plan covering seven current and nineteen former employees in The Netherlands. We pay premiums to an insurance company to fund annuities for the current employees. We are responsible for funding additional annuities based on continued service and future salary increases. We closed this defined benefit plan for new employees in April 2005. As of that date, The Netherlands subsidiary established a defined contribution plan that now covers new employees. We also have a defined benefit pension plan for six former employees of our U.K. subsidiary. We closed this plan to further accrual for all employees effective December 31, 2004, and, effective March 2005, established a defined contribution plan that now covers new employees. The following table presents the sensitivity of our funded status as of March 31, 2015, and expected fiscal 2016 pension expense to the following changes in key assumptions: Increase/(Decrease) Funded Status at March 31, 2015 Increase/(Decrease) Fiscal 2016 Pension Expense Assumption: Increase in discount rate by 1 percentage point $ 365,000 $ (60,000 ) Decrease in discount rate by 1 percentage point (494,000 ) 75,000 Increase in estimated return on assets by 1 percentage point n/a (7,000 ) Decrease of estimated return on assets by 1 percentage point n/a 7,000 Increase in inflation rate by 1 percentage point (865,000 ) 82,000 Decrease in inflation rate by 1 percentage point 453,000 (69,000 ) Increase in compensation by 1 percentage point (278,000 ) 39,000 Decrease in compensation by 1 percentage point 7,000 (1,000 ) 41 Table of Contents Regarding the Netherlands defined benefit plan, the market value of the assets is determined as the discounted stream of guaranteed benefit payments. Given the valuation method of the assets, the expected long-term rate of return on assets equals the discount rate. As such the Netherlands defined benefit plan is not included in the sensitivity analysis for the estimated return on assets, because the sensitivity on the estimated return on assets is implicitly already included in the sensitivity analysis for the discount rate. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2015, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements.