Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of Coherents financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of management. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included under Item 1 of this quarterly report. Coherents MD&A is presented in the following sections: Forward-Looking Statements Overview Restructuring and Site Consolidation Critical Accounting Estimates Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Forward-looking statements in Item 2 may involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially from those projected (refer to Part II Item 1A for discussion of these risks and uncertainties). Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements as defined by Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding projected growth rates, markets, product development, financial position, capital expenditures and foreign currency exposure. Forward-looking statements are also identified by words such as expects, anticipates, intends, believes, plans, projects or similar expressions. Although our management considers the expectations and assumptions on which the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are based to have a reasonable basis, there can be no assurance that managements expectations, beliefs or projections as expressed in the forward-looking statements will actually occur or prove to be correct. In addition to general industry and global economic conditions, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to: (i) the failure of any one or more of the expectations or assumptions on which such forward-looking statements are based to prove to be correct; and (ii) the risks relating to forward-looking statements and other Risk Factors discussed in Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 and in the Company's other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, or otherwise. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment; new risk factors can arise, and it is not possible for management to anticipate all such risk factors, or to assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any individual risk factor, or combination of risk factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are based only on information currently available to us and speak only as of the date of this Report. We do not assume any obligation, and do not intend, to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by the securities laws. Investors should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature that the Company may make in its subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, or other disclosures filed with or furnished to the SEC. Investors should also be aware that, while the Company does communicate with securities analysts from time to time, such communications are conducted in accordance with applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement, conclusion of any analysis, or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Overview Coherent Corp. (Coherent, the Company, we, us or our), a global leader in materials, networking, and lasers, is a vertically integrated manufacturing company that develops, manufactures and markets engineered materials, optoelectronic components and devices, and lasers for use in the industrial, communications, electronics, and instrumentation markets. Headquartered in Saxonburg, Pennsylvania, Coherent has research and development, manufacturing, sales, service, and distribution facilities worldwide. Coherent produces a wide variety of lasers, along with application-specific photonic and electronic materials and components, and deploys them in various forms, including integrated with advanced software to enable its customers. 23 We generate almost all of our revenues, earnings and cash flows from developing, manufacturing and marketing a broad portfolio of products and services for our end markets. We also generate revenue, earnings and cash flows from externally-funded research and development contracts relating to the development and manufacture of new technologies, materials and products. Our customer base includes original equipment manufacturers; laser end-users; system integrators of high-power lasers; manufacturers of equipment and devices for our end markets. As we grow, we are focused on scaling our Company and deriving the continued benefits of vertical integration as we strive to be a best-in-class player in all of our highly competitive markets. We may elect to change the way in which we operate or are organized in the future to enable the most efficient implementation of our strategy. Restructuring and Site Consolidation Restructuring Plan On May 23, 2023, the Board of Directors approved the Companys May 2023 Restructuring Plan which includes site consolidations, facilities moves and closures, as well as the relocation and requalification of certain manufacturing facilities. These restructuring actions are expected to be accompanied by other cost reductions and are intended to realign our cost structure as part of a transformation to a simpler, more streamlined, resilient and sustainable business model. In the three months ended September 30, 2024, these activities resulted in charges of $24 million, primarily for impairment losses associated with the sale of our Newton Aycliffe business, accelerated depreciation, and site move costs. In fiscal 2024, these activities resulted in charges of $27 million, primarily for accelerated depreciation, the write-off of property and equipment, and site move costs, with $3 million of those charges in the three months ended September 30, 2023. In fiscal 2023, these activities resulted in $119 million of charges primarily for employee termination costs, and the write-off of property and equipment, net of $65 million from reimbursement arrangements. We expect the restructuring actions to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2025. However, the actual timing and costs associated with these restructuring actions may differ from our current expectations and estimates and such differences may be material. See Note 17. Restructuring Plan to the Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. Synergy and Site Consolidation Plan On May 20, 2023, the Company announced that it has accelerated some of the actions planned as part of its multi-year synergy and site consolidation efforts following the acquisition of Coherent, Inc., including site consolidations and relocations to lower cost sites. These relocations and other actions are expected to result in the Company achieving its previously announced $250 million synergy plan, which includes savings from supply chain management, internal supply of enabling materials and components, operational efficiencies in all functions due to scale, global functional model efficiencies and consolidation of corporate costs. In the three months ended September 30, 2024, the acceleration of these activities resulted in $4 million of charges primarily for overlapping labor related to transition of manufacturing operations to other sites and shut down costs, partially offset by a benefit from the reversal of employee termination costs previously accrued. In fiscal 2024, the acceleration of these activities resulted in $40 million of charges primarily for overlapping labor related to transition of manufacturing operations to other sites, shut down costs for sites being exited, accelerated depreciation and employee termination costs, with $8 million of those charges in the three months ended September 30, 2023. In fiscal 2023, the acceleration of these activities resulted in $20 million in charges primarily for employee termination costs, the write-off of inventory for products that are being exited and shut down costs. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures are in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K dated August 16, 2024 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Standards See Note 2. Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards to our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. 24 Results of Operations ($ in millions, except per share data) The following tables set forth select items from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) for the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 ($ in millions) (1): Three Months Ended September 30, 2024 Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 % of Revenues % of Revenues Total revenues $ 1,348 100 % $ 1,053 100 % Cost of goods sold 888 66 746 71 Gross margin 460 34 307 29 Operating expenses: Research and development 132 10 113 11 Selling, general and administrative 229 17 212 20 Restructuring charges 24 2 3 Interest and other, net 56 4 67 6 Earnings (loss) before income taxes 19 1 (88) (8) Income taxes (6) (21) (2) Net earnings (loss) 25 2 (67) (6) Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (1) Net earnings (loss) attributable to Coherent Corp. $ 26 2 % $ (67) (6) % Diluted loss per share $ (0.04) $ (0.65) (1) Some amounts may not add due to rounding. Consolidated Revenues. Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2024 increased 28% to $1,348 million, compared to $1,053 million for the same period last fiscal year.Revenues increased $315 million (68%) in the communications market in both our datacom and telecom revenue. The increases in datacom were driven primarily by AI datacenter demand. Increases in telecom were due to a combination of end-market improvement as well as our new products. In our remaining markets, which are primarily Industrial-related applications, revenue decreased 3%. Within these markets, on-going strength in display capital equipment volumes was more than offset by weakness in precision manufacturing and other subsegments. From a segment perspective, Networking revenues increased 61% year-over-year related to AI datacenter demand in our communications market.Lasers revenue increased 4% year-over-year reflecting relatively stable end market demand. Materials revenues decreased 3% year-over-year,primarily due to weak automotive end market demand. Gross margin. Gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2024 was $460 million, or 34% of total revenues, compared to $307 million, or 29% of total revenues, for the same period last fiscal year, an increase of 500 basis points. The increase as a percent of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2024 was primarily due to higher revenue volume and favorable mix as well as yield improvements. Research and development. Research and development (R&D) expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2024 were $132 million, or 10% of revenues, compared to $113 million, or 11% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2024 was driven by higher revenues partially offset by an increase in investment spending. The R&D expenses are primarily related to continued investment in our product portfolios. Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2024 were $229 million, or 17% of revenues, compared to $212 million, or 20% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2024 compared to the same period last fiscal year was primarily the result of higher sales volumes partially offset by the impact of higher variable compensation. 25 Restructuring charges. Restructuring charges related to our Restructuring Plan for the three months ended September 30, 2024 were $24 million and consist of impairment losses associated with the sale of our Newton Aycliffe business, accelerated depreciation, and move costs due to the consolidation of certain manufacturing sites. Restructuring charges related to our Restructuring Plan for the three months ended September 30, 2023 were $3 million and consisted of severance, move costs, equipment write-offs and accelerated depreciation due to the consolidation of certain manufacturing sites. See Note 17. Restructuring Plan included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. Interest and other, net. Interest and other, net for the three months ended September 30, 2024 was expense of $56 million, compared to expense of $67 million for the same period last fiscal year, a decrease of $11 million. Included in Interest and other, net, were interest expense on borrowings, foreign currency gains and losses, amortization of debt issuance costs, equity gains and losses from unconsolidated investments, and interest and dividend income on excess cash balances. For the three months ended September 30, 2024, the decrease of $11 million in comparison to the same period last fiscal year was driven by $13 million incremental interest and dividend income due to increases in interest rates earned on investments as well as the increase in restricted cash balances. In addition, $7 million lower interest expense primarily due to lower interest expense on our New Term B Loans resulting from lower balances and lower interest rates. Additionally, we recorded higher interest expense benefit from our interest rate cap and swap partially offset by $11 million higher foreign exchange losses primarily due to higher volatility of exchange rates during the three months ended September 30, 2024. Income taxes. The Companys year-to-date effective income tax rate at September 30, 2024 was (29)% compared to an effective tax rate of 24% for the same period in 2024. The variations between the Companys effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 21% were due to tax rate differentials between U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. The current quarter rate was impacted by the recording of a $11 million windfall on stock awards due to the increase in stock price. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests for the three months ended September 30, 2024 was $1 million, and represents the noncontrolling interest holders shares of losses of Silicon Carbide LLC. See Note 11. Noncontrolling Interests included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. Segment Reporting Revenues and segment profit for the Companys reportable segments are discussed below. During the first quarter of fiscal 2025 as a result of a new CEO joining the Company in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) implemented changes in the measure he uses to allocate resources and assess performance. Our CODM now evaluates each segments performance and allocates resources based on segment revenue and segment profit, instead of operating income, as our CODM believes segment profit is a more comprehensive profitability measure for each operating segment. Segment profit includes operating expenses directly managed by operating segments, including research and development, direct sales, marketing and administrative expenses. Segment profit does not include share-based compensation, acquisition or integration related costs, amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets, restructuring charges, and certain other charges. Additionally, effective the first quarter of fiscal 2025, we no longer allocate Corporate strategic research and development, strategic marketing and sales expenses and shared general and administrative expenses, as these expenses are not directly attributable to our operating segments. Management believes segment profit to be a useful measure for investors, as it reflects the results of segment performance over which management has direct control and is used by management in its evaluation of segment performance. See Note 13. Segment Reporting, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on the Companys reportable segments and for the reconciliation of the Companys segment profit to earnings (loss) before income taxes, which is incorporated herein by reference. We report our financial results in the following three designated segments: (i) Networking, (ii) Materials, and (iii) Lasers. Comparative prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the new segment profitability measure. The change in our operating segment measure had no impact on our previously reported consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. Networking ($ in millions) Three Months Ended September 30, % Increase 2024 2023 Revenues $ 763 $ 473 61% Segment profit $ 140 $ 67 109% Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2024 increased 61% to $763 million, compared to $473 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in revenue of $290 million during the three months ended September 30, 2024 was related to AI datacenter demand in our communications market resulting from increased volumes in the datacom vertical. 26 Segment profit for the three months ended September 30, 2024 increased 109% to $140 million, compared to segment profit of $67 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in segment profit for the three months ended September 30, 2024 was primarily driven by higher revenues as well as a higher margin as a percentage of sales, partially offset by $14 million higher R&D expenses. The margin percentage was higher than the three months ended September 30, 2023 due to the favorable impact of volume, yield and mix. Materials ($ in millions) Three Months Ended September 30, % Increase (Decrease) 2024 2023 Revenues $ 237 $ 245 (3)% Segment profit $ 97 $ 58 67% Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2024 decreased 3% to $237 million, compared to revenues of $245 million for the same period last fiscal year. Compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023, Materials decreased $7 million year-over-year, with a decrease of $14 million in the electronics market primarily due to weak automotive end market demand as well as a decrease of $14 million in the industrial market due to macroeconomic conditions. The decreases were partially offset by $22 million higher volumes in the datacom vertical within the communications market. Segment profit for the three months ended September 30, 2024 increased 67% to $97 million, compared to segment profit of $58 million for the same period last fiscal year, primarily driven by higher margin percentage, partially offset by higher R&D spending on new projects and higher SG&A expenses. The margin percentage was higher than the three months ended September 30, 2023 due to favorable product mix. Lasers ($ in millions) Three Months Ended September 30, % Increase 2024 2023 Revenues $ 348 $ 336 4% Segment profit $ 69 $ 53 30% Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2024 increased 4% to $348 million, compared to revenues of $336 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to $18 million higher shipments to the industrial market due to higher demand in our semiconductor and display capital equipment vertical, partially offset by lower volumes from the precision manufacturing vertical as well as lower shipments to the life sciences vertical in the instrumentation market. Segment profit for the three months ended September 30, 2024 increased 30% to $69 million, compared to segment profit of $53 million for the same period last fiscal year. The higher segment profit was primarily driven by the re-allocation of resources to corporate as well as lower R&D project spending. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our primary sources of cash have been from operations, long-term borrowings, and advance funding from customers. Other sources of cash include proceeds from the issuance of equity, proceeds received from the exercises of stock options, and sale of equity investments and businesses. Our historic uses of cash have been for business acquisitions, capital expenditures, investment in research and development, payments of principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, payments of debt and equity issuance costs to obtain financing and payments in satisfaction of employees minimum tax obligations. Supplemental information pertaining to our sources and uses of cash for the periods indicated is presented as follows: 27 Sources (uses) of cash (millions): Three Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 153 $ 199 Proceeds from exercises of stock options and purchases of stock under employee stock purchase plan 24 15 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and other items 31 (10) Proceeds from the sale of business 27 Other items (1) (2) Payments in satisfaction of employees minimum tax obligations (32) (14) Payments on existing debt (118) (19) Additions to property, plant & equipment (92) (62) Operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities was $153 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 compared to $199 million of net cash provided by operating activities for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2024 compared to the same period last fiscal year was primarily due to increases in accounts receivables and inventories as a result of higher revenues partially offset by higher earnings. Investing activities: Net cash used in investing activities was $66 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to net cash used of $64 million for the same period last fiscal year. Lower cash used to fund capital expenditures of $30 million year-over-year was offset by cash received from the sale of a business of $27 million. Financing activities: Net cash used in financing activities was $126 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to $18 million for the same period last fiscal year. Cash outflows for both periods were primarily payments on existing debt. New Senior Credit Facilities On July 1, 2022, Coherent entered into a Credit Agreement by and among the Company, the lenders, and other parties thereto, and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent, which provides for senior secured financing of $4.0 billion, consisting of a term loan A credit facility (the Term A Facility), with an aggregate principal amount of $850 million, a term loan B credit facility (the Term B Facility and, together with the Term A Facility, the Term Facilities), with an aggregate principal amount of $2,800 million, and a revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility and, together with the Term Facilities, the Senior Credit Facilities), in an aggregate available amount of $350 million, including a letter of credit sub-facility of up to $50 million. On March 31, 2023, Coherent entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Credit Agreement, which replaced the adjusted LIBOR-based rate of interest therein with an adjusted Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) based rate of interest. As amended, the Term A Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility each bear interest at an adjusted SOFR rate subject to a 0.10% floor plus a range of 1.75% to 2.50%, based on the Companys total net leverage ratio. The Term A Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility borrowings bear interest at adjusted SOFR plus1.85% as of September 30, 2024. On April 2, 2024, Coherent entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement, under which the principal amount of term B loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement (the Existing Term B Loans) were replaced with an equal amount of new term loans (the New Term B Loans) having substantially similar terms as the Existing Term B Loans, except with respect to the interest rate applicable to the New Term B Loans and certain other provisions. As further amended, the New Term B Loans will bear interest at an adjusted SOFR rate (subject to a 0.50% floor) plus 2.50% as of September 30, 2024. The maturity of the New Term Loans and revolving credit facility remains unchanged. In relation to the Term Facilities, the Company incurred expense of $53 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, which is included in Interest expense in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss). On July 1, 2023, our interest rate cap became effective, which together with our interest rate swap, reduced interest expense by $13 million during the three months ended September 30, 2024. During the three months ended September 30, 2024, the Company made payments of $117 million for the Term Facilities, including voluntary payments of $100 million. As of September 30, 2024, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. Our cash position, borrowing capacity and debt obligations are as follows (in millions): 28 Table of Contents September 30, 2024 June 30, 2024 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,020 $ 926 Restricted cash, current 51 174 Restricted cash, non-current 711 690 Available borrowing capacity under Revolving Credit Facility 320 346 Total debt obligations 3,989 4,100 Other Liquidity On December 4, 2023, the Company consummated two investment agreements under which Silicon Carbide LLC, a Company subsidiary received $1.0 billion cash in exchange for 25% of the equity of that entity. Such funds will be used primarily to fund future capital expansion, including the previously-announced capital that Coherent intended to invest in its silicon carbide business. As a result, the transaction is enabling Coherent to allocate the capital it had intended to invest in this business unit to other corporate purposes, thus increasing its available free cash flow which will provide greater financial and operational flexibility. See Note 11. Noncontrolling Interests included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. The Company believes existing cash, cash flow from operations, and available borrowing capacity from its Senior Credit Facilities will be sufficient to fund its needs for working capital, capital expenditures, repayment of scheduled long-term borrowings and lease obligations, investments in R&D, and internal and external growth objectives at least through the next twelve months. Our cash and cash equivalent balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world, including amounts held outside the United States. As of September 30, 2024, the Company held approximately $877 million of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash outside of the United States. Generally, cash balances held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States. At September 30, 2024, we had $763 million of restricted cash, which includes $757 million at our Silicon Carbide LLC that is restricted for use by only that subsidiary.