Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of Coherents financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of management. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included under Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Coherents MD&A is presented in the following sections: Forward-Looking Statements Overview Trends and Other Matters Affecting Our Business Critical Accounting Estimates Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Forward-looking statements in Item 2 may involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially from those projected (refer to Part II Item 1A for discussion of these risks and uncertainties). Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking statements as defined by Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding projected growth rates, markets, product development, financial position, capital expenditures and foreign currency exposure. Forward-looking statements are also identified by words such as expects, anticipates, intends, believes, plans, projects or similar expressions. Although our management considers the expectations and assumptions on which the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are based to have a reasonable basis, there can be no assurance that managements expectations, beliefs or projections as expressed in the forward-looking statements will actually occur or prove to be correct. In addition to general industry and global economic conditions, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to: (i) the failure of any one or more of the expectations or assumptions on which such forward-looking statements are based to prove to be correct; and (ii) the risks relating to forward-looking statements and other Risk Factors discussed in Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2025 and in the Company's other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, or otherwise. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment; new risk factors can arise, and it is not possible for management to anticipate all such risk factors, or to assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any individual risk factor, or combination of risk factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are based only on information currently available to us and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not assume any obligation, and do not intend, to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by the securities laws. Investors should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature that the Company may make in its subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, or other disclosures filed with or furnished to the SEC. Investors should also be aware that, while the Company does communicate with securities analysts from time to time, such communications are conducted in accordance with applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement, conclusion of any analysis, or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. 27 Overview Coherent Corp. (Coherent, the Company, we, us or our) is a vertically integrated manufacturing company that develops, manufactures and markets lasers, transceivers, and other optical and optoelectronic devices, modules, and systems, as well as engineered materials, for use in communications, industrial, instrumentation and electronics applications. We generate nearly all of our revenues, earnings, and cash flows from developing, manufacturing, and marketing a wide range of products and services for our end markets. Coherent has broad technical expertise and a deep technology stack in areas of importance to our products, including materials growth and fabrication of specialty materials, semiconductor lasers, passive optics including isolators, transceivers, transport equipment, high power lasers for semiconductor capital equipment, display manufacturing, precision manufacturing, and scientific research.Many of our products include custom integrated software that we develop internally, leveraging our deep domain expertise. Headquartered in Saxonburg, Pennsylvania, Coherent has research and development, manufacturing, sales, service, and distribution facilities worldwide. Trends and Other Matters Affecting Our Business Industry Conditions We continue to experience strong demand in our Datacenter and Communications markets. The increasing investments by hyperscale and other cloud providers in AI datacenter infrastructures have significantly boosted demand for our datacenter transceivers. Elevated demand for our new ZR/ZR+ transceivers and sustained growth in traditional telecom transport products drove higher shipment volumes for our telecom and other communications solutions. Change in Reportable Segments Operating segments are defined as components of a company that engage in business activities from which they may earn revenues and incur expenses, and for which discrete financial information is available and is evaluated regularly by CODM in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Aggregation of similar operating segments into reportable operating segments is permitted if the businesses have similar economic characteristics and meet established qualitative criteria. Effective July 1, 2025, we realigned our organizational structure and identified multiple operating segments which have been aggregated into two reportable segments based on our internal management structure and CODM oversight: (i) Datacenter & Communications, and (ii) Industrial. See Note 13. Segment Reporting for further information. Restructuring Plans 2023 Plan On May 23, 2023, the Board of Directors approved the 2023 Plan which includes site consolidations, facilities moves and closures, as well as the relocation and requalification of certain manufacturing facilities. These restructuring actions were intended to realign our cost structure as part of a transformation to a simpler, more streamlined, resilient and sustainable business model. In the three months ended September 30, 2025, these activities resulted in charges of $7 million. The current quarter costs are primarily for site move and employee termination costs. In fiscal 2025, these activities resulted in charges of charges of $53 million, primarily for impairment losses associated with the sale of our Newton Aycliffe business, impairment of right-of-use (ROU) assets, employee termination costs, site move costs and accelerated depreciation, with $24 million of those charges in the three months ended September 30, 2024. In fiscal 2024, these activities resulted in $119 million of charges primarily for employee termination costs, and the write-off of property and equipment, net of $65 million from reimbursement arrangements. In fiscal 2023, these activities resulted in $119 million of charges primarily for employee termination costs, and the write-off of property and equipment, net of $65 million from reimbursement arrangements. See Note 17. Restructuring Plans for further information. 2025 Plan Commencing in the quarter ended March 31, 2025, and as part of the ongoing strategic review of the Companys business, the Companys management approved the 2025 Plan (and together with the 2023 Plan, the Restructuring Plans) to take a number of restructuring actions, including site consolidations, facilities moves and closures, workforce reductions, contract terminations, and certain other associated cost reductions. In the three months ended September 30, 2025, these activities resulted in $13 million of charges primarily related to employee termination and site closure costs. In fiscal 2025, these activities resulted in $107 million of charges primarily for the write-off of property and equipment and ROU assets, employee and contract termination costs. We expect the restructuring actions to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2026. However, the actual timing and costs associated with these restructuring actions may differ from our current expectations and estimates and such differences may be material. See Note 17. Restructuring Plans for further information. Impairment of Assets Held-for-Sale and Sale of Business 28 In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025, management entered into non-binding agreements to sell several entities. As a result of classifying these entities as held-for-sale, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $85 million within the Industrial segment. These charges were recognized in Impairment of assets held-for-sale in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025 to reduce the carrying values of the entities to their estimated fair value. We recorded an additional non-cash impairment charge of $9 million within the Industrial segment. The charge was recorded in Impairment of assets held-for-sale in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) for the first quarter of fiscal 2026 to reduce the carrying values of the entities that continue to meet the held-for-sale criteria during this period to their estimated fair value. On September 2, 2025, we completed the sale our aerospace and defense business, which is part of our Industrial segment, for approximately $400 million and recorded a gain of $115 million to Gain on sale of business in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2026. See Note 18. Assets Held-for-Sale and Sale of Business to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Macroeconomic Conditions - Tariffs In early 2025, the United States implemented significant new tariffs and export restrictions affecting a broad range of countries, commodities and industries. These actions have prompted retaliatory measures from certain foreign governments, including the imposition of tariffs and export controls. As of September 2025, while some of these measures have been delayed, a number of the new tariffs remain in effect, including substantial trade sanctions between the United States and China. China has imposed restrictions on the export of certain rare earth minerals which are critical to our products. These tariffs, trade sanctions, and/or restrictions on the export of certain rare earth minerals used in our products did not have a material impact on our business, financial condition, operational results and/or cash flows in the first quarter of fiscal 2026. As a global company with a substantial and diversified manufacturing footprint our diverse manufacturing footprint provides us with some insulation against these tariffs, trade sanctions, and other geopolitical challenges. Our geographically diverse supply chain combined with the internal production of many of our most critical technology in-feeds provides adaptability and optionality that benefits our customers. As the tariff, trade sanctions, and export restrictions become clearer, we expect to identify opportunities to mitigate their impact. However, we operate in a dynamic geopolitical environment, and we are not immune to any sustained disruption in global trade conditions. Such disruptions could create future headwinds for the Company and may result in revenue reduction, cost increases on material used in our products or significant production delays, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures are in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K dated August 15, 2025 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Standards See Note 2. Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards to our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. 29 Results of Operations The following tables set forth select items from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 ($ in millions) (1): Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 Three Months Ended September 30, 2024 % of Revenues % of Revenues Total revenues $ 1,581 100 % $ 1,348 100 % Cost of goods sold 1,002 63 888 66 Gross margin 579 37 460 34 Operating expenses: Research and development 155 10 132 10 Selling, general and administrative 252 16 229 17 Restructuring charges 19 1 24 2 Impairment of assets held-for-sale 9 1 Gain on sale of business (115) (7) Interest and other, net 42 3 56 4 Earnings before income taxes 217 14 19 1 Income taxes (8) (1) (6) Net earnings 225 14 25 2 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (1) (1) Net earnings attributable to Coherent Corp. $ 226 14 % $ 26 2 % Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 1.19 $ (0.04) (1) Some amounts may not add due to rounding. Consolidated Revenues. Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2025 increased 17% to $1,581 million, compared to $1,348 million for the same period last fiscal year.Revenues increased $226 million (26%) in the Datacenter & Communications segment. Revenue growth in our Datacenter business was fueled by continued strong AI datacenter demand, while our Communications business benefited from increased demand in both data center interconnect and traditional telecom applications. In the Industrial segment, revenue increased $7 million (1%) primarily due to increased volumes in our precision manufacturing, semiconductor capital equipment and automotive markets. This growth was partially offset by the divestiture of our aerospace and defense business on September 2, 2025. Gross margin. Gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2025 was $579 million, or 37% of total revenues, compared to $460 million, or 34% of total revenues, for the same period last fiscal year, an increase of 252 basis points. The increase as a percent of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2025 was primarily due to higher revenue volume, product cost reductions and yield improvements in the Datacenter & Communications segment. In addition, gross margin was favorably impacted by pricing optimization in both the Datacenter & Communications and Industrial segments. Research and development. Research and development (R&D) expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2025 were $155 million, or 10% of revenues, compared to $132 million, or 10% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The increase of $23 million in R&D expenses was primarily related to continued investment in our product portfolios, particularly in our Datacenter & Communications segment. We continue to prioritize R&D investments in projects with the highest expected return-on-investment, supporting our long-term growth strategy. Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2025 were $252 million, or 16% of revenues, compared to $229 million, or 17% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2025 was primarily the result of higher sales volumes and efficiencies achieved from cost reduction initiatives partially offset by higher integration and divestiture-related consulting costs, as well as higher share-based compensation expense. 30 Restructuring charges. Restructuring charges for the three months ended September 30, 2025 were $19 million and consisted primarily of employee termination costs and move costs due to the consolidation and closure of certain manufacturing sites. Restructuring charges for the three months ended September 30, 2024 were $24 million and consisted of impairment losses associated with the sale of our Newton Aycliffe business, accelerated depreciation, and move costs due to the consolidation of certain manufacturing sites. See Note 17. Restructuring Plans included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. Impairment of assets held-for-sale. Impairment of assets held-for-sale for the three months ended September 30, 2025 were $9 million, or 1% of revenues and represented non-cash impairment charges to reduce our carrying value in entities that continue to meet the held-for-sale criteria at September 30, 2025 to their estimated fair value. See Note 18. Assets Held-for-Sale and Sale of Business included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. Gain on sale of business. Gain on sale of business for the three months ended September 30, 2025 was $115 million, or 7% of revenues and represented the gain on the sale of our aerospace and defense business. See Note 18. Assets Held-for-Sale and Sale of Business included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. Interest and other, net. Interest and other, net expense for the three months ended September 30, 2025 was $42 million, compared to $56 million for the same period in the prior fiscal year, a decrease of $14 million. Included in Interest and other, net, were interest expense on borrowings, foreign currency gains and losses, amortization of debt issuance costs, losses on debt extinguishment, equity gains and losses from unconsolidated investments, and interest and dividend income on cash balances. For the three months ended September 30, 2025, the decrease of $14 million in comparison to the same period last fiscal year was driven by $11 million lower foreign exchange net losses, $8 million lower interest expense and a $7 million gain on sale from an equity investment partially offset by $5 million lower interest income and $5 million higher debt extinguishment and debt transaction fees. The $11 million lower foreign exchange net losses were primarily due to lower volatility of exchange rates during the three months ended September 30, 2025. The $8 million lower interest expense was primarily due to lower interest expense on our Term Loans resulting from lower balances and lower interest rates partially offset by lower interest expense benefit from our interest rate cap and swap. The $5 million lower interest and dividend income was primarily due to decreases in interest rates earned on investments as well as the decrease in average cash and restricted cash balances. Income taxes. The Companys year-to-date effective income tax rate at September 30, 2025 was a 4% benefit compared to a benefit of 29% for the same period in the prior fiscal year. The variance from the U.S. statutory rate of 21% was primarily due to discrete benefits related to German tax law changes, an uncertain tax position release and differences in tax rates between U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests. Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests for the three months ended September 30, 2025 was $1 million, consistent with the same period in the prior fiscal year. This amount represents the noncontrolling interest holders shares of losses of Silicon Carbide LLC. See Note 11. Noncontrolling Interests included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. 31 Segment Reporting Revenues and segment profit for the Companys reportable segments are discussed below. Our CODM evaluates each segments operations for decision-making and performance assessment based on segment revenue and segment profit, as our CODM believes segment profit is a more comprehensive profitability measure for each operating segment. Segment profit includes operating expenses directly managed by operating segments, including research and development, direct sales, marketing and administrative expenses. Segment profit does not include share-based compensation, acquisition or integration related costs, amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets, restructuring charges, impairment charges on assets held-for-sale, gain on sale of businesses and certain other charges. Additionally, we do not allocate Corporate strategic research and development, strategic marketing and sales expenses and shared general and administrative expenses, as these expenses are not directly attributable to our operating segments. Management believes segment profit to be a useful measure for investors, as it reflects the results of segment performance over which management has direct control and is used by management in its evaluation of segment performance. See Note 13. Segment Reporting, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on the Companys reportable segments and for the reconciliation of the Companys segment profit to earnings (loss) before income taxes, which is incorporated herein by reference. Effective July 1, 2025, we report our financial results in the following two designated segments: (i) Datacenter & Communications and (ii) Industrial. Comparative prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the new segments. Datacenter & Communications ($ in millions) Three Months Ended September 30, % Increase 2025 2024 Revenues $ 1,090 $ 864 26% Segment profit $ 269 $ 219 23% Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2025 increased 26% to $1,090 million, compared to $864 million for the same period in the prior fiscal year. The increase in revenue of $226 million during the three months ended September 30, 2025 was dueto increases in our Datacenter business driven primarily by continued strong AI datacenter demand and growth in our Communications business revenue due to higher demand in the data center interconnect as well as traditional telecom applications. Segment profit for the three months ended September 30, 2025 increased 23% to $269 million, compared to segment profit of $219 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in segment profit for the three months ended September 30, 2025 was primarily driven by higher revenues, partially offset by increased R&D investments in our product portfolio. Industrial ($ in millions) Three Months Ended September 30, % Increase (Decrease) 2025 2024 Revenues $ 491 $ 484 1% Segment profit $ 117 $ 69 69% Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2025 increased 1% to $491 million, compared to revenues of $484 million for the same period in the prior fiscal year. Compared to the three months ended September 30, 2024, Industrial revenues increased $7 million year-over-year, primarily due to increased volumes in our precision manufacturing, semiconductor capital equipment and automotive markets. The revenue growth was partially offset by the divestiture of our aerospace and defense business on September 2, 2025. Segment profit for the three months ended September 30, 2025 increased 69% to $117 million, compared to segment profit of $69 million for the same period last fiscal year, primarily driven by lower manufacturing costs, improvements in pricing optimization and favorable product mix. 32 Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our primary sources of cash have been provided from operations, long-term borrowings, and advance funding from customers. Other sources of cash include proceeds from the issuance of equity, proceeds received from the exercises of stock options, and sale of equity investments and businesses. Our historic uses of cash have been for business acquisitions, capital expenditures, investment in research and development, payments of principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, payments of debt and equity issuance costs to obtain financing and payments in satisfaction of employees minimum tax obligations. Supplemental information pertaining to our sources and uses of cash for the periods indicated is presented as follows: Sources (uses) of cash ($ in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 46 $ 153 Proceeds from exercises of stock options and purchases of stock under employee stock purchase plan 21 24 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and other items (1) 31 Proceeds from long-term borrowings and revolving credit facilities 1,342 Payment of dividends (11) Debt issuance costs (9) Proceeds from the sale of business 391 27 Proceeds from sale of equity investment 10 Other items (1) Payments in satisfaction of employees minimum tax obligations (37) (32) Payments on borrowings under revolving credit facilities (77) Payments on existing debt (1,651) (118) Additions to property, plant & equipment (104) (92) Operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities was $46 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to $153 million for the same period in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year was primarily due to increases in inventories and accounts receivable as a result of higher revenues partially offset by higher accounts payable and higher net earnings. Investing activities: Net cash provided by investing activities was $297 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to net cash used of $66 million for the same period in the prior fiscal year. The increase was primarily due to $391 million cash received from the sale of a business, net of fees. Financing activities: Net cash used in financing activities was $421 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $126 million for the same period in the prior fiscal year. Net cash outflows for both periods were primarily attributable to payments on existing debt obligations. 33 Table of Contents Senior Credit Facilities On September 26, 2025, the Company entered into Amendment No. 4 (Amendment No. 4) and Amendment No. 5 (Amendment No. 5) to the Credit Agreement.Under Amendment No. 4, (i) the existing revolving credit commitments were refinanced and replaced with new senior secured revolving credit commitments, (ii) $350 million of senior secured incremental revolving credit commitments were added, increasing the total revolving credit facility to $700 million (the 2025 Revolving Loans), including a letter of credit sub-facility of up to $100 million, and (iii) a $1,250 million new tranche of senior secured incremental term A loans was added (the 2025 Incremental Term A Loans), the proceeds of which were used, in part, to repay all outstanding principal, interest and fees under the initial term A loans. As amended, the 2025 Revolving Loans and the 2025 Incremental Term A Loans each bear interest at an adjusted SOFR rate subject to a 0.00% floor plus a range of 1.25% to 2.25% based on the Companys total net leverage ratio.The interest rate applicable to the 2025 Revolving Loans and the 2025 Incremental Term A Loans is initially a SOFR-based rate plus 1.50% as of September 30, 2025.The 2025 Revolving Loans and the 2025 Incremental Term A Loans mature on the earlier of September 26, 2030 or a Springing Maturity Date, which is a date that is 91 days prior to the stated maturity of either (i) the Companys unsecured senior notes or (ii) the term B loans then outstanding if, on such 91st day, the applicable senior notes or term B loans remain outstanding and liquidity is less than (x) $250 million plus (y) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such notes or term B loans, as applicable. Under Amendment No. 5, the outstanding New Term B-2 Loans were replaced with an equal amount of new term loans (the New Term B-3 Loans) having substantially similar terms as the New Term B-2 Loans, except with respect to the interest rate applicable to the New Term B-3 Loans and certain other provisions. As further amended, the New Term B-3 Loans bear interest at a SOFR-based rate (subject to a 0.50% floor) plus 1.75% as of September 30, 2025. The New Term B-3 Loans will mature on July 1, 2029. In relation to the Term Facilities, the Company incurred expense of $41 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, which is included in Interest expense in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss). On July 1, 2023, our interest rate cap became effective, which together with our interest rate swap (through September 30, 2024), reduced interest expense by $6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2025. During the three months ended September 30, 2025, the Company made payments of $400 million for the Term Facilities, all of which were voluntary payments. As of September 30, 2025, the Company had $10 million in borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. Our cash position, borrowing capacity and debt obligations are as follows (in millions): September 30, 2025 June 30, 2025 Cash and cash equivalents $ 853 $ 909 Restricted cash, current 23 9 Restricted cash, non-current 678 715 Available borrowing capacity under Revolving Credit Facility 655 315 Total debt obligations 3,308 3,687 Other Liquidity On December 4, 2023, the Company completed two investment agreements under which Silicon Carbide LLC, a Company subsidiary, received $1.0 billion cash in exchange for 25% of the equity of that entity. Such funds have and will continue to be used primarily to fund future capital expansion in our silicon carbide business and will enable us to increase our available free cash flow to provide greater financial and operational flexibility to execute our capital allocation priorities. See Note 11. Noncontrolling Interests included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. The Company believes existing cash, cash flow from operations, and available borrowing capacity from its Senior Credit Facilities will be sufficient to fund its needs for working capital, capital expenditures, repayment of scheduled long-term borrowings and lease obligations, investments in R&D, and internal and external growth objectives at least through the next twelve months. Our cash and cash equivalent balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world, including amounts held outside the United States. As of September 30, 2025, the Company held approximately $802 million of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash outside of the United States. Generally, cash balances held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States. 34 Table of Contents At September 30, 2025, we had $700 million of restricted cash, which includes $697 million at our Silicon Carbide LLC that is restricted for use by only that subsidiary.