Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and under the heading "Risk Factors." All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements as a result of events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or non-occurrence of anticipated events, except to the extent required by law. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Business Overview Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to September 30. Fiscal years 2019 , 2018 and 2017 ended on September 28 , September 29 , and September 30 , respectively, and are referred to in this annual report as fiscal 2019 , fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 for convenience. Each of fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 included 52 weeks. We are one of the world's leading providers of lasers, laser-based technologies and laser-based system solutions in a broad range of commercial, industrial and scientific applications. We design, manufacture, service and market lasers and related accessories for a diverse group of customers. Since inception in 1966, we have grown through internal expansion and through strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, technologies, intellectual property, manufacturing processes and product offerings. We are organized into two reporting segments: OEM Laser Sources ("OLS") and Industrial Lasers & Systems ("ILS"), based on the organizational structure of the company and how the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") receives and utilizes information provided to allocate resources and make decisions. This segmentation reflects the go-to-market strategies and synergies for our broad portfolio of laser technologies and products. While both segments deliver cost-effective, highly reliable photonics solutions, the OLS business segment is focused on high performance laser sources and complex optical sub-systems typically used in microelectronics manufacturing, medical diagnostics and therapeutic applications, as well as in scientific research. Our ILS business segment delivers high performance laser sources, sub-systems and tools primarily used for industrial laser materials processing, serving important end markets like automotive, machine tool, consumer goods and medical device manufacturing. Income from continuing operations is the measure of profit and loss that our CODM uses to assess performance and make decisions. Income from continuing operations represents the sales less the cost of sales and direct operating expenses incurred within the operating segments as well as allocated expenses such as shared sales and manufacturing costs. We do not allocate certain operating expenses to our operating segments and we manage them at the corporate level. These unallocated costs include stock-based compensation and corporate functions (certain advanced research and development, management, finance, legal and human resources) and are included in Corporate and other. Management does not consider unallocated Corporate and other costs in its measurement of segment performance. We were originally incorporated in California on May 26, 1966 and reincorporated in Delaware on October 1, 1990. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and we are a member of the Standard & Poor's MidCap 400 Index and the Russell 1000 Index. Additional information about Coherent, Inc. (referred to herein as the Company, we, our, or Coherent) is available on our web site at www.coherent.com. We make available, free of charge on our web site, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Information contained on our web site is not part of this annual report or our other filings with the SEC. Any product, product name, process, or technology described in these materials is the property of Coherent. RECENT EVENTS In June 2019, we announced our plans to co-locate the manufacturing and engineering of our High Power Fiber Lasers ("HPFL") products at our Hamburg, Germany, facility to our Tampere, Finland, location and exit a portion of our HPFL business, expected to be completed during fiscal 2020. In conjunction with this announcement, we recorded restructuring charges in fiscal 2019 of $19.7 million. The charges primarily relate to estimated severance and write-offs of excess inventory, which is recorded in cost of sales. See Note 18, "Restructuring Charges" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 15 of this annual report. We have also announced our intent to vacate our leased facility in Santa Clara at the end of the current lease term in calendar 2020 and combine operations at our Santa Clara headquarters. We did not incur material expenses in fiscal 2019 related to this project. In April 2019, we announced that John Ambroseo will transition from being our President and Chief Executive Officer, a position he has served in since 2002, to a special advisor to the Company no later than April 2021. 4 In November 2018, we borrowed an additional $40.0 million under our revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") and subsequently repaid $30.0 million of these borrowings in July 2019. On October 28, 2018 , our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program for up to $250.0 million of our common stock through December 31, 2019, with a limit of no more than $75.0 million per quarter. During fiscal 2019, we repurchased and retired 603,828 shares of outstanding common stock under this program at an average price of $128.20 per share for a total of $77.4 million . On October 5, 2018, we acquired privately held Ondax, Inc. ("Ondax") for approximately $12.0 million, excluding transaction costs. Ondax develops and produces photonic components which are used on an OEM basis by the laser industry as well as incorporated into its own stabilized lasers and Raman Spectroscopy systems. See Note 4, "Business Combinations" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 15 of this annual report. On October 5, 2018, we acquired certain assets of Quantum Coating, Inc. ("Quantum") for approximately $7.0 million, excluding transaction costs. See Note 4, "Business Combinations" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 15 of this annual report. On March 8, 2018, we acquired privately held O.R. Lasertechnologie GmbH and certain assets of its U.S.-based affiliate (collectively "OR Laser") for approximately $47.4 million, excluding transaction costs. OR Laser produces laser-based material processing equipment for a variety of uses, including additive manufacturing, welding, cladding, marking, engraving and drilling. See Note 4, "Business Combinations" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 15 of this annual report. On February 6, 2018, our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to $100.0 million of our common stock from time to time through January 31, 2019. During fiscal 2018, we repurchased and retired 574,946 shares of outstanding common stock under this program at an average price of $173.91 per share for a total of $100.0 million, thereby repurchasing the full amount authorized under this program. During fiscal 2018, we made payments on our senior secured term loan facility ("Euro Term Loan") of 141.7 million Euros, including voluntary payments of a total of 135.0 million Euros. On November 7, 2016, we completed our acquisition of Rofin Sinar Technologies, Inc. ("Rofin") pursuant to the Merger Agreement dated March 16, 2016. Rofin was one of the world's leading developers and manufacturers of high-performance industrial laser sources and laser-based solutions and components. As a condition of the acquisition, we were required to divest and hold separate Rofin's low power CO 2 laser business based in Hull, United Kingdom (the "Hull Business"), and reported this business separately as a discontinued operation until its divestiture. We completed the divestiture of the Hull Business on October 11, 2017, after receiving approval for the terms of the sale from the European Commission. On April 27, 2018, we completed the sale of several entities that we acquired in our acquisition of Rofin. See Note 19, "Discontinued Operations and Sale of Assets Held for Sale" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 15 of this annual report. INDUSTRY BACKGROUND The word "laser" is an acronym for "light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation." A laser emits an intense coherent beam of light with some unique and highly useful properties. Most importantly, a laser is orders of magnitude brighter than any lamp. As a result of its coherence, the beam can be focused to a very small and intense spot, useful for applications requiring very high power densities including cutting and other materials processing procedures. The laser's high spatial resolution is also useful for microscopic imaging and inspection applications. Laser light can be monochromaticall of the beam energy is confined to a narrow wavelength band. There are many types of lasers and one way of classifying them is by the material or medium used to create the lasing action. This can be in the form of a gas, liquid, semiconductor, solid state crystal or fiber. Lasers can also be classified by their output wavelength: ultraviolet, visible, infrared or wavelength tunable. We manufacture all of these laser types. There are also many options in terms of pulsed output versus continuous wave, pulse duration, output power, beam dimensions, etc. In fact, each application has its own specific requirements in terms of laser performance. The broad technical depth at Coherent enables us to offer a diverse set of product lines characterized by lasers targeted at growth opportunities and key applications. In all cases, we aim to be the supplier of choice by offering a high-value combination of superior technical performance and high reliability. Photonics has taken its place alongside electronics as a critical enabling technology for the twenty-first century. Photonics-based solutions are entrenched in a broad array of industries that include microelectronics, flat panel displays, machine tool, automotive, and medical diagnostics, with adoption continuing in ever more diverse applications. Growth in these applications stems from two sources. First, there are many applications where the laser is displacing conventional technology 5 because it can do the job faster, better or more economically. Second, there are new applications where the laser is the enabling tool that makes the work possible, as in the conversion of amorphous silicon into poly crystalline silicon at low temperatures, where lasers are used in the manufacturing of high resolution rigid and flexible OLED displays found in the latest smart phones, tablets and laptop computers. Key laser applications include: semiconductor inspection; manufacturing of advanced printed circuit boards ("PCBs"); flat panel display manufacturing; solar cell production; medical and bio-instrumentation; materials processing; metal cutting and welding; industrial process and quality control; marking; imaging and printing; graphic arts and display; and research and development. For example, ultraviolet ("UV") lasers are enabling the continuous move towards miniaturization, which drives innovation and growth in many markets. In addition, the advent of industrial grade ultrafast lasers continues to open up new applications for laser processing. Coherent occupies a unique position in the industry thanks to the breadth and depth of our product and technology portfolio, which includes laser sources, critical or enabling photonics components and laser systems. Working closely with our customers we have developed specialized solutions that include lasers, delivery and process optics in complete assemblies (sub-systems), and for certain applications and markets we have also developed parts handling and automation to build complete laser systems. OUR STRATEGY We strive to develop innovative and proprietary products and solutions that meet the needs of our customers and that are based on our core expertise in lasers and optical technologies. In pursuit of our strategy, we intend to: Leverage our technology portfolio and application engineering to lead the proliferation of photonics into broader markets We will continue to identify opportunities in which our technology portfolio and application engineering can be used to offer innovative solutions and gain access to new markets. We plan to utilize our expertise to increase our market share in the mid to high power material processing applications. Streamline our manufacturing structure and improve our cost structure We will focus on optimizing the mix of products that we manufacture internally and externally. We will utilize vertical integration where our internal manufacturing process is considered proprietary and seek to leverage external sources when the capabilities and cost structure are well developed and on a path towards commoditization. Focus on long-term improvement of adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of net sales We define adjusted EBITDA as operating income adjusted for depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation expense, major restructuring costs and certain other non-operating income and expense items, such as costs related to our acquisition of Rofin. Key initiatives for EBITDA improvements include utilization of our Asian manufacturing locations, optimizing our supply chain and continued leveraging of our infrastructure. Optimize our leadership position in existing markets There are a number of markets where we have historically been at the forefront of technological development and product deployment and from which we have derived a substantial portion of our revenues. We plan to optimize our financial returns from these markets. Maintain and develop additional strong collaborative customer and industry relationships We believe that the Coherent brand name and reputation for product quality, technical performance and customer satisfaction will help us to further develop our loyal customer base. We plan to maintain our current customer relationships and develop new ones with customers who are industry leaders and work together with these customers to design and develop innovative product systems and solutions as they develop new technologies. Develop and acquire new technologies and market share We will continue to enhance our market position through our existing technologies and develop new technologies through our internal research and development efforts, as well as through the acquisition of additional complementary technologies, intellectual property, manufacturing processes and product offerings. APPLICATIONS Our products address a broad range of applications that we group into the following markets: Microelectronics, Materials Processing, OEM Components and Instrumentation and Scientific and Government Programs. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentages of total net sales by market application: 6 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2017 Percentage of total net sales Percentage of total net sales Percentage of total net sales Consolidated: Microelectronics 44.2 % 54.5 % 51.9 % Materials processing 28.3 % 27.4 % 29.7 % OEM components and instrumentation 18.6 % 11.6 % 11.8 % Scientific and government programs 8.9 % 6.5 % 6.6 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Microelectronics Nowhere is the trend towards miniaturization and higher performance more prevalent than in the Microelectronics market where smart phones, tablets, personal computers ("PC's"), televisions ("TV's") and "wearables" are driving advances in displays, integrated circuits and PCBs. In response to market demands and consumer expectations, semiconductor and device manufacturers are continually seeking to improve their process and design technologies in order to manufacture smaller, more powerful and more reliable devices at lower cost. New laser applications and new laser technologies are a key element in delivering higher resolution and higher precision at lower manufacturing cost. We primarily support three markets in the microelectronics industry: (1) flat panel display ("FPD") manufacturing, (2) semiconductor front-end and (3) advanced packaging and interconnects ("API"). Microelectronicsflat panel display manufacturing The high-volume consumer market is driving the production of FPDs in applications such as mobile phones, tablets, laptop computers, TVs and wearables. There are several types of established and emerging displays based on quite different technologies, including liquid crystal ("LCD") and organic light emitting diodes ("OLED"). Each of these technologies utilize laser applications in their manufacturing process to enable improved yields, higher process speed, improved battery life, lower cost and/or superior display brightness, resolution and refresh rates. Several display types require a high-density pattern of silicon thin film transistors ("TFTs"). If this silicon is polycrystalline as opposed to amorphous, the display performance is greatly enhanced. Excimer-based processes, such as excimer laser annealing ("ELA") have allowed high-volume production of low-temperature polysilicon ("LTPS") on conventional glass substrates as well as flexible displays based on plastic substrates. Our excimer lasers provide a unique solution for LTPS because they are the only industrial-grade excimer lasers optimized for this application. The current state-of-the-art product for this application is our excimer Vyper laser and Linebeam systems. These systems deliver power ranges of 1200W to 3600W, depending on the system, enabling a critical manufacturing process step on substrate sizes up to Generation 6. These systems are integral to the manufacturing process on all leading LTPS-based smart phone displays and hold the potential for deployment in a variety of screens, including tablet, laptop, automotive displays and OLED TV. Excimer-based LTPS is also enabling flexible OLED displays which have undergone rapid growth as they have been adopted into smart phones. A modern flat panel display incorporates a number of different layers, some of which are thin films that need to be cut or structured. As film thicknesses decrease over time, lasers are becoming the tool of choice to process these materials. Our DIAMOND CO 2 and Rapid series ultrafast lasers are used for cutting FPD films. We have developed a proprietary technology for cutting brittle materials such as glass and sapphire without debris and with zero kerf called SMART Cleave TM , which is used for cutting brittle materials used in displays. This technology uses ultrafast lasers coupled with proprietary optics. Our AVIA, Rapid, Monaco and DIAMOND CO 2 and CO lasers are also used in other production processes for FPDs. These processes include drilling, cutting, patterning, marking and yield improvement. While the timing and adoption rate of an emerging display technology such as micro LED (LED) is still hard to gauge, it is likely to make use of both similar technologies such as a LTPS backplane, as well as new ones, e.g. new versions of laser lift-off (LLO) and laser induced forward transfer (LIFT). We expect that this will represent an expanding market opportunity into new display form factors for laser-based processes. 7 Microelectronicssemiconductor front-end The term "front-end" refers to the production of semiconductor devices which occurs prior to packaging. As semiconductor device geometries decrease in size, devices become increasingly susceptible to smaller defects during each phase of the manufacturing process and these defects can negatively impact yield. One of the semiconductor industry's responses to the increasing vulnerability of semiconductor devices to smaller defects has been to use defect detection and inspection techniques that are closely linked to the manufacturing process. Detecting the presence of defects is only the first step in preventing their recurrence. After detection, defects must be examined in order to identify their size, shape and the process step in which the defect occurred. This examination is called defect classification. Identification of the sources of defects in the lengthy and complex semiconductor manufacturing process has become essential for maintaining high yield production. Semiconductor manufacturing has become an around-the-clock operation and it is important for products used for inspection, measurement and testing to be reliable and to have long lifetimes. Our Azure, Paladin, Excimer, Ion and OPSL lasers are used to detect and characterize defects in semiconductor chips. Microelectronicsadvanced packaging and interconnects After a wafer is patterned, there are then a host of other processes, referred to as back-end processing, which finally result in a packaged encapsulated silicon chip. Ultimately, these chips are then assembled into finished products. The advent of high-speed logic and high-memory content devices has caused chip manufacturers to look for alternative technologies to improve performance and lower process costs. This search includes new types of materials, such as low-k and thinner silicon. Our AVIA, Rapid, Monaco and Matrix lasers provide economical methods of cutting and scribing these wafers while delivering higher yields than traditional mechanical methods. There are similar trends in chip packaging and PCB manufacturing requiring more compact packaging and denser interconnects. In many cases, lasers present enabling technologies. For instance, lasers are now the only economically practical method for drilling blind microvias in chip substrates and in both rigid and flexible PCBs. These microvias are tiny interconnects that are essential for enabling high-density circuitry commonly used in smart phones, tablets and advanced computing systems. Our DIAMOND CO 2 and AVIA diode pumped solid state ("DPSS") lasers are the leading lasers in this application. The ability of these lasers to operate at very high repetition rates translates into faster drilling speeds and increased throughput in microvia processing applications. In addition, multi-layer circuit boards require more flexible production methods than conventional printing technologies can offer, which has led to widespread adoption of laser direct imaging ("LDI"). Our Paladin laser is used for this application. We also offer market-leading solutions for laser marking of wafers and ICs, such as our PowerLine laser sub-systems. Materials Processing We primarily support four markets in the materials processing industry: (1) automotive, (2) machine tool, (3) medical device and (4) consumer goods, as well a number of smaller markets. It is the most diverse of all the segments we serve and a large cross section of our products are used in this segment. Our sales in this segment include components, laser sources, laser diagnostic equipment and complete laser systems. At a high level, the drivers for laser deployment within the materials processing segment are faster processing with higher yields, processing of new and novel materials, more environmentally friendly processes and higher precision. With the broadest product portfolio in the laser industry, we offer solutions for almost any application on any material to our customers. The most common applications include cutting, welding, joining, drilling, perforating, scribing, engraving and marking. Lasers are used in a number of applications in the automotive industry, from fine processing of high precision parts to marking, as well as cutting of metals and welding large components such as gear boxes and car bodies, for customers including OEMs and their suppliers. We serve this industry with a number of our products including ultrafast, DPSS, CO 2 , diode and fiber lasers as well as systems in the areas of marking, scribing, cutting and welding. We serve the machine tool market with components, laser sources and systems in applications including cutting, welding, marking and additive manufacturing. We offer fiber lasers with different performance points in terms of power levels and beam profiles to address specific applications, including single mode lasers and advanced beam shaping options, e.g. the ARM advanced high power fiber laser where the beam parameters can be optimized to deliver higher quality welds which translate into higher customer yields. As a fully vertically integrated fiber and laser diode supplier, we are able to produce all key components in-house. Other products include our full line up of CO2 lasers, DPSS and ultrafast lasers. Additive manufacturing or 3D printing is another growing market where lasers have seen rapid growth. We serve this market with our Laser Creator product that is a selective laser melting (SLM) system for 3D printing of metal parts as well as a portfolio of systems. 8 The medical device market is characterized by its need for high precision manufacturing with high levels of quality control which lends itself very well to laser manufacturing. Applications include fine cutting and welding in addition to high quality and specialized marking. We serve this market with a number of lasers as well as a portfolio of systems. In the consumer goods market, we serve a large variety of applications in various industries, such as packaging, digital printing, jewelry, textiles, security and consumer electronics. We serve these industries with a broad offering of our products from lasers to laser tools. As a consequence, this market represents a stable and growing opportunity for us. In summary, we serve the materials processing segment with a very broad product portfolio. Laser sources include the Diamond series mid-power CO and CO 2 lasers; the DC series of high power CO 2 lasers; Highlight FL high power fiber lasers; the DF series of high power diode laser systems; the Diamond mid-power and Q-Switched fiber; the COMPACT, MINI and EVOLUTION series of low and mid power diode lasers; the AViA, Matrix, Flare, and Helios DPSS lasers; and the Monaco and Rapid series of ultrafast lasers. Laser tools include the Performance, Select and Integral series of manual welding systems; the Exact, UW and MPS series of modular and highly configurable laser processing systems; the EasyMark, EasyJewel, LabelMarker Advanced and Combiline laser marking systems; the META laser cutting tools; and Laser Creator 3D metal printing system. Laser sub-systems, i.e. laser sources combined with software, beam delivery, processing heads, process monitoring, pattern recognition and vision, include the PowerLine series for marking; the StarFiber for welding and cutting; the PWS welding system; the QFS laser scribing system; and the StarShape CO 2 laser-based systems. OEM Components and Instrumentation Instrumentation is one of our more mature commercial applications. Representative applications within this market include bio-instrumentation, medical OEMs, graphic arts and display, machine vision and defense and aerospace applications. We also support the laser-based instrumentation market with a range of laser-related components, including diode lasers and optical fibers. Our OEM component business includes sales to other, less integrated laser manufacturers participating in OEM markets such as materials processing, scientific, and medical. Bio-instrumentation Laser applications for bio-instrumentation include confocal microscopy for biological imaging that allows researchers and clinicians to visualize cellular and subcellular structures and processes with an incredible amount of detail; DNA sequencing where lasers provide automation and data acquisition rates that would be impossible by any other method; drug discoverygenomic and proteomic analyses that enable drug discovery to proceed at very high throughput rates; flow cytometry for analyzing single cells or populations of cells in a heterogeneous mixture, including blood samples; and Raman spectroscopy which enables chemical analysis in a wide range of commercial applications. Our OBIS, Flare, Galaxy, Sapphire, BioRay and Genesis lasers are used in several bio-instrumentation applications. Medical therapy We sell a variety of components and lasers to medical laser companies for use in end-user applications such as ophthalmology, aesthetic, surgical, therapeutic and dentistry. Our DIAMOND series CO 2 lasers are widely used in ophthalmic, aesthetic and surgical markets. We have a leading position in Lasik and photorefractive keratectomy surgery methods with our ExciStar XS excimer laser platform. We also provide ultrafast lasers for use in cataract surgery and optical fibers for surgical applications. The unique ability of our optically pumped semiconductor lasers ("OPSL") technology to match a wavelength to an application has led to the development of a high-power yellow (577nm) laser for the treatment of eye related diseases, such as Age Related Macular Degeneration and retinal diseases associated with diabetes. Other applications where our OBIS, Genesis and Sapphire series of lasers are used include the retinal scanning market in diagnostic imaging systems as well as new ground breaking in-vivo imaging. Defense and aerospace We serve the defense and aerospace markets with components and laser sources in a number of applications. In particular, directed energy has seen rapid growth in the last couple of years, driven largely by the promise of being able to deter and repel asymmetrical threats such as drones in an effective and economical manner. We supply both components and laser sources for directed energy applications. In addition, we have seen recent growth in demand for optics used in space and ground-based telescopes. Scientific and Government Programs We are widely recognized as a technology innovator and the scientific market has historically provided an ideal "test market" for our leading-edge innovations. These have included ultrafast lasers, DPSS lasers, continuous-wave ("CW") systems, 9 excimer gas lasers and water-cooled ion gas lasers. Our portfolio of lasers that address the scientific research market is broad and includes our Acuity, Chameleon, Chameleon Discovery, COMPexPro, Astrella, Revolution, Fidelity, Legend, Libra, Monaco, Vitara, Mephisto, Mira, Genesis and Verdi lasers. Many of the innovations and products pioneered in the scientific marketplace have become commercial successes for both our OEM customers and us. We have a large installed base of scientific lasers which are used in a wide range of applications spanning virtually every branch of science and engineering. These applications include biology and life science, engineering, physical chemistry and physics. Most of these applications require the use of ultrafast lasers that enable the generation of pulses short enough to be measured in femto- or attoseconds (10 -15 to 10 -18 seconds). Because of these very short pulse durations, ultrafast lasers enable the study of fundamental physical and chemical processes with temporal resolution unachievable with any other tool. These lasers also deliver very high peak power and large bandwidths, which can be used to generate many exotic effects. Some of these are now finding their way into mainstream applications, such as microscopy or materials processing. The use of ultrafast lasers such as the Chameleon, Fidelity and Monaco in microscopy is now a common occurrence in bio-imaging labs, and they have become a crucial tool in modern neuroscience research. FUTURE TRENDS Microelectronics Lasers are widely used in mass production microelectronics applications largely because they enable entirely new application capabilities that cannot be realized by any other known means. These laser-based fabrication and testing methods provide a level of precision, typically on a micrometer and nanometer level, that are unique, faster, are touch free, deliver superior end products, increase yields, and/or reduce production costs. We anticipate this trend to continue, driven primarily by the increasing sophistication and miniaturization of consumer electronic goods, resulting in increasing demand for better displays, more bandwidth and memory, and all packaged into devices which are lighter, thinner and consume less power. We believe that we are well positioned to continue to capitalize on the current market trends. Excimer-based LTPS is a key technology for producing high resolution rigid and flexible OLED displays as well as future display technologies like LEDs. Demand for CO 2 , Avia, Matrix, Rapid, Monaco, Helios and direct diode lasers correlate with the need for related FPD touch panel, film cutting, light guide technology, repair and frit welding applications. The trend for thinner and lighter devices is impacting the glass substrates used in today's mobile devices requiring thinner glass with higher degrees of mechanical strength and scratch resistance. Mechanical means of cutting these glass and sapphire pieces are no longer adequate to meet future requirements and we expect lasers to play an increased role. Our CO, CO 2, Monaco and Rapid lasers together with our proprietary SmartCleave technology are well positioned to take advantage of this trend. Semiconductor devices look set to continue shrinking device geometries, as well as expanding vertically into new 3D structures. As a result we believe our many UV laser sources (such as Azure, Paladin, Avia, Rapid, ExiStar, and OPSL) will continue to find increasing adoption, since their unique optical properties align well with the process demands of a nanometer scale world. These same lasers, plus Monaco, Rapid, CO and CO 2 are also widely adopted for back end Advanced Packaging and Interconnect (API) applications. With dimension roadmaps showing a decade of dimension shrink on PCBs, interconnects, Silicon scribe widths and wafer thickness, driven by developments such as 5G, we believe that our portfolio of lasers aligns well with these demands as well as new processes that could be enabled by our lasers, to meet the increasing demands and decreasing tolerances of these markets. While we experienced a softening of the demand in fiscal 2019, we anticipate a resumption of investment in OLED manufacturing capacity. It is difficult to precisely determine the timing and impact of OLED investment on our fiscal 2020 and longer term revenues even as additional vendors ramp their OLED production rates. Materials processing The materials processing segment is the most diverse of all the segments we serve and a large cross section of our products are used in this segment. We sell components, laser sources and complete laser systems. There are many drivers at play, but at a high level they involve faster processing with higher yields, processing of new materials, more environmentally friendly processes and higher precision. The automotive industry is undergoing rapid changes that present opportunities for further use of lasers. Trends such as reduction in emissions from lighter cars and electric vehicles require new materials and new processes for welding, cutting and drilling. We believe this will lead to further adoption of lasers and tools based on high power fiber and diode lasers, as well as 10 ultrafast and CO 2 lasers. In particular, we believe our ARM laser technology offers competitive advantages versus alternative solutions. We expect to see select opportunities for our products in the machine tool industry in a variety of broad-based applications including newer applications such as laser cladding and heat treatment. In the consumer goods market, we serve a large variety of applications in various industries, such as packaging, digital printing, jewelry, textiles, security and consumer electronics. We serve these industries with a broad offering of our products from lasers to laser tools. As a consequence, this market represents a stable and growing opportunity for us. We supply the medical device market with a variety of lasers and laser systems in applications such as fine cutting and welding as well as marking. This market is set to continue to grow in the foreseeable future as the population becomes older and advanced medical procedures spread outside the traditional markets in US, Europe and Japan. In 3D printing we expect continued growth as the technology matures, particularly in the area of metal additive manufacturing where we supply SLM tools. OEM components and instrumentation The bio instrumentation market's most important areas: microscopy, flow cytometry and DNA sequencing, are all enjoying solid growth on a worldwide basis with some local variations. In this field, our OPSL technology gives us differentiated products at a number of important wavelengths. This advantage coupled with strong focus on meeting our customers' demands for more compact and cost effective sources as well as integrated laser sub-systems has resulted in growth for us in this market and we expect that to continue. In the therapeutic area, we see stable business with several opportunities for growth. We supply excimer lasers used in refractive eye surgery and are actively involved in further developments in laser vision correction. We also have opportunities in dental procedures for both hard and soft tissue applications, with greatly improved patient comfort and outcome. In the area of photocoagulation, our Genesis OPSL yellow lasers are being used since the wavelength is particularly suitable for the treatment of blood vessels. We are an OEM supplier of CO 2 and semiconductor lasers to the major manufacturers of equipment used in the latest aesthetic procedures. Governments have made and continue to make investments in the development of directed energy systems. We have a number of product offerings which support these development efforts. Scientific and government programs Worldwide scientific funding is expected to remain relatively stable, with some regions growing and others holding their current level. Bright spots include the strong push in neuroscience to better understand how the brain functions. Lasers play a very important role in imaging brain structure as well as tracking activity in animal brains using techniques such as optogenetics. We believe that our current and upcoming products are well positioned to take advantage of this exciting opportunity. In physics and chemistry applications, our recent product introductions of high performance and industrially hardened ultrafast products have been very well received. While this is a very competitive market, we expect that our new products will position us for growth. MARKET APPLICATIONS We design, manufacture and market lasers, laser tools, precision optics and related accessories for a diverse group of customers. The following table lists our major markets and the Coherent technologies serving these markets.* Market Application Technology Microelectronics Flat panel display CO, CO 2 DPSS Excimer Ultrafast Semiconductor Laser Sub-systems Semiconductor front-end CO 2 DPSS OPSL Excimer Ion Laser Sub-systems 11 Advanced packaging and interconnects CO, CO 2 DPSS Excimer Ultrafast Laser Sub-systems Materials processing Automotive CO 2 Fiber Laser Systems/ Laser Sub-systems Ultrafast Machine Tool CO 2 Fiber DPSS Ultrafast Laser Systems/ Laser Sub-systems Medical Device CO 2 DPSS Fiber Ultrafast Excimer Laser Systems/ Laser Sub-systems Components Consumer Goods CO CO 2 Fiber DPSS Ultrafast Laser Systems/ Laser Sub-systems OEM components and instrumentation Bio-Instrumentation DPSS OPSL Ultrafast Semiconductor Graphic arts and display OPSL Semiconductor Medical therapy (OEM) CO, CO 2 DPSS Ultrafast Excimer OPSL Semiconductor Components Defense and aerospace Semiconductor Fiber Components Scientific and government programs All scientific applications CO, CO 2 DPSS Excimer OPSL Ultrafast *Coherent sells its laser measurement and control products into a number of these applications. In addition to the products we provide, we invest routinely in the core technologies needed to create substantial differentiation for our products in the marketplace. Our semiconductor, crystal, fiber and large form factor optics facilities all maintain an external customer base providing value-added solutions. We direct significant engineering efforts to produce unique solutions targeted for internal consumption. These investments, once integrated into our broader product portfolio, 12 provide our customers with uniquely differentiated solutions and the opportunity to substantially enhance the performance, reliability and capability of the products we offer. TECHNOLOGIES Diode-pumped solid-state lasers (DPSS) DPSS lasers use semiconductor lasers to pump a crystal to produce a laser beam. By changing the energy, optical components and the types of crystals used in the laser, different wavelengths and types of laser light can be produced. The efficiency, reliability, longevity and relatively low cost of DPSS lasers make them ideally suited for a wide range of OEM and end-user applications, particularly those requiring 24-hour operations. Our DPSS systems are compact and self-contained sealed units. Unlike conventional tools and other lasers, our DPSS lasers require minimal maintenance since they do not have internal controls or components that require adjusting and cleaning to maintain consistency. They are also less affected by environmental changes in temperature and humidity, which can alter alignment and inhibit performance in many systems. We manufacture a variety of DPSS laser types for different applications including semiconductor inspection; advanced packaging and interconnects; laser pumping; spectroscopy; bio-agent detection; DNA sequencing; drug discovery; flow cytometry; entertainment lighting (display); medical; rapid prototyping and marking, welding, engraving, cutting and drilling. Fiber Lasers, Fiber Components and Fiber Assemblies Fiber lasers use semiconductor lasers to pump a doped optical fiber to produce a laser beam. The unique features of a fiber laser make them suitable for producing high power, continuous wave laser beams. We manufacture differentiated fiber lasers that provide advantages and/or are enabling in certain applications. For example, our ARM laser offers dynamically adjustable beam profiles that improve welding results compared to standard fiber lasers and is able to weld new composite materials. We are the world's leading OEM supplier of Active Fiber for fiber lasers - selected for our combination of high performance and consistent quality. In addition, we are a volume supplier of Specialty Passive Fiber, High Power Fiber Cables, Fiber Switches, Fiber-to-Fiber Couplers, amplifiers for directed energy applications and OEM Medical Fiber Assemblies. We produce our Medical assemblies in high volume in one of our ISO 13485 certified plants. In addition, many of the fiber components offered in the broader market, such as Fiber Bragg Gratings and Fiber Combiners, have our fiber components in them. Gas lasers (CO, CO 2 , Excimer, Ion) The breadth of our gas laser portfolio is industry leading, encompassing CO, CO 2 , excimer and ion laser technologies. Gas lasers derive their name from the use of one or more gases as a lasing medium. They collectively span an extremely diverse and useful emission range, from the very deep ultraviolet to the far infrared. This diverse range of available wavelengths, coupled with high optical output power, and an abundance of other attractive characteristics, makes gas lasers extremely useful and popular for a variety of microelectronics, scientific, therapeutic and materials processing applications. Optically Pumped Semiconductor Lasers ("OPSL") Our OPSL platform is a surface emitting semiconductor laser that is energized or pumped by a semiconductor laser. The use of optical pumping circumvents inherent power scaling limitations of electrically pumped lasers, enabling very high powered devices. A wide range of wavelengths can be achieved by varying the semiconductor materials used in the device and changing the frequency of the laser beam using techniques common in solid state lasers. The platform leverages high reliability technologies developed for telecommunications and produces a compact, rugged, high power, single-mode laser. Our OPSL products are well suited to a wide range of applications, including the bio-instrumentation, therapeutics and graphic arts and display markets. Semiconductor lasers High power edge emitting semiconductor diode lasers use the same principles as widely-used CD and DVD lasers, but produce significantly higher power levels. The advantages of this type of laser include smaller size, longer life, enhanced reliability and greater efficiency. We manufacture a wide range of discrete semiconductor laser products with wavelengths ranging from 650nm to over 1000nm and output powers ranging from 1W to over 100W, with highly integrated products in the kW range. These products are available in a variety of industry standard form factors including the following: bare die, packaged and fiber coupled single emitters and bars, monolithic stacks and fully integrated modules with microprocessor controlled units that contain power supplies and active coolers. 13 Our semiconductor lasers are used internally as the pump lasers in DPSS, fiber and OPSL products that are manufactured by us, as well as a wide variety of external medical, OEM, defense and industrial applications, including aesthetic (hair removal, cosmetic dentistry), graphic arts, counter measures, rangefinders, target designators, cladding, hardening, brazing and welding. Ultrafast ("UF") Lasers Ultrafast lasers are lasers generating light pulses with durations of a few femtoseconds (10 -15 seconds) to a few tens of picoseconds (10 -12 seconds). These types of lasers are used for medical, advanced microelectronics and materials processing applications as well as scientific research. UF laser oscillators generate a train of pulses at 50-100 MHz, with peak powers of tens of kilowatts, and UF laser amplifiers generate pulses at 1-2000 kHz, with peak powers up to several Terawatts. The extremely short duration of UF laser pulses enables temporally resolving fast events like the dynamics of atoms or electrons. In addition, the high peak power enables so-called non-linear effects where several photons can be absorbed by a molecule at the same time. This type of process enables applications like multi-photon excitation microscopy or ablation of materials with high precision and minimal thermal damage. The use of our ultrafast lasers in applications outside science has been growing rapidly over the last several years, particularly in microelectronics and materials processing applications. Integrated Laser Solutions: Systems and Sub-systems In most cases, our lasers are integrated into machine tools or systems to perform a specific task, e.g. manufacturing of electronic components or performing a procedure on a patient. Inside the system the laser is typically combined with delivery optics and beam steering devices, such as galvos, to deliver the laser beam to the workpiece. In addition to offering laser sources, we also offer solutions comprising beam delivery optics, mechanics and control electronics including software. We believe that these 'sub-systems' allow us to leverage our expertise in laser processing and optical design into superior solutions for our customers, with applications that can offer higher value and/or faster time to market. We have developed proprietary hardware, firmware and software in this area. Laser sub-systems often include vision systems, process monitoring and monitoring of the system itself. Our sub-system products include: PowerLine series for marking; the StarFiber for welding and cutting; the PWS welding system; the QFS laser scribing system; and the StarShape CO 2 laser-based systems. In select cases we also offer complete laser systems which include the laser sub-system as well as a material handling system inside a class 1 laser safety enclosure, ready to be used in production or development environments. Our laser systems products include: the Laser Creator 3D metal printing system; the Performance, Select and Integral series of manual welding systems; the Exact, UW and MPS series of modular and highly configurable laser processing systems; the EasyMark, EasyJewel, LabelMarker Advanced and Combiline laser marking systems; the META laser cutting tools; and the PWS mini welding system. SALES AND MARKETING We primarily market our products in the United States through a direct sales force. We sell internationally through direct sales personnel located in Canada, France, Israel, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, China, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Spain and the United Kingdom, as well as through independent representatives in certain jurisdictions around the world. Our foreign sales are made principally to customers in South Korea, China, Germany, Japan and other European and Asia-Pacific countries. Foreign sales accounted for 76% of our net sales in fiscal 2019 , 84% of our net sales in fiscal 2018 and 83% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 . Sales made to independent representatives and distributors are generally priced in U.S. dollars. A large portion of foreign sales that we make directly to customers are priced in local currencies and are therefore subject to currency exchange fluctuations. Foreign sales are also subject to other normal risks of foreign operations such as protective tariffs, export and import controls and political instability. We had one customer, Advanced Process Systems Corporation, who contributed more than 10% of revenue during fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . To support our sales efforts we maintain and continue to invest in a number of applications centers around the world, where our applications experts work closely with customers on developing laser processes to meet their manufacturing needs. The applications span a wide range, but are mostly centered around the materials processing and microelectronics markets. Locations include several facilities in the US, Europe and Asia. We maintain customer support and field service staff in major markets within the United States, Europe, Japan, China, South Korea, Taiwan and other Asia-Pacific countries. This organization works closely with customers, customer groups and independent representatives in servicing equipment, training customers to use our products and exploring additional applications of our technologies. 14 We typically provide parts and service warranties on our lasers, laser-based systems, optical and laser components and related accessories and services. The length of warranties offered on our products and services varies, but primarily ranges from 12 to 24 months. Warranty reserves, as reflected on our consolidated balance sheets, have generally been sufficient to cover product warranty repair and replacement costs. The weighted average warranty period covered in our reserve is approximately 15 to 18 months. MANUFACTURING Since the acquisition of Rofin in November 2016, we have integrated Rofin into our organizational structure and both legacy organizations are operating as one company with common high level objectives, goals and processes. Strategies are being implemented to improve operating leverage, to execute synergies and to enhance our customers' experience. For example, in June 2019, we announced our plans to co-locate the manufacturing and engineering of our HPFL products at our Hamburg, Germany, facility to our Tampere, Finland, location and exit a portion of our HPFL business, expected to be completed during fiscal 2020. Common policies and guidelines have been communicated, key management and operating processes have been implemented and ERP systems at all of Rofin's sites in Asia and North America, and certain sites in Europe, have been integrated onto the same Oracle ERP and Agile planning platforms, consistent with the rest of Coherent. This integration process will continue into fiscal 2020. Strategies One of our core manufacturing strategies is to tightly control our supply of key parts, components, sub-assemblies and outsourcing partners. We primarily utilize vertical integration when we have proprietary internal capabilities that are not cost-effectively available from external sources. We believe this is essential to maintaining high quality products and enable rapid development and deployment of new products and technologies. We provide customers with products manufactured at the highest level of quality, leveraging Coherent's quality processes that are International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") certified at our principal manufacturing sites. Committed to quality and customer satisfaction, we design and produce many of our own components and sub-assemblies in order to retain quality and performance control. We have also outsourced certain components, sub-assemblies and finished goods where we can maintain our high quality standards while improving our cost structure. As part of our strategy to increase our market share and customer support in Asia as well as our continuing efforts to manage costs, we have transferred the production of additional products into both of our Singapore and Malaysia factories. With the acquisition of Rofin, we now have a manufacturing footprint in Nanjing, China. We are transferring additional products and volume to Nanjing and have consolidated our China repair activities in that facility. We have significantly increased our tube refurbishment capacity and footprint in our South Korea operations, which has allowed us to reduce service response time and inventories, providing benefits to us and to our customers. We have also increased our sourcing of materials from Asia through our International Procurement Office in Singapore, which has enabled us to reduce material costs on a global basis. We have designed and implemented proprietary manufacturing tools, equipment and techniques in an effort to provide products that differentiate us from our competitors. These proprietary manufacturing techniques are utilized in a number of our product lines including our gas laser production, crystal growth, beam alignment as well as the wafer growth for our semiconductor, optically pumped semiconductor laser product family and fiber component and fiber laser product family. Raw materials or sub-components required in the manufacturing process are generally available from several sources. However, we currently purchase several key components and materials, including exotic materials, crystals and optics, used in the manufacture of our products from sole source or limited source suppliers. We also purchase assemblies and turnkey solutions from contract manufacturers based on our proprietary designs. We rely on our own production and design capability to manufacture and specify certain strategic components, crystals, fibers, semiconductor lasers, lasers and laser-based systems. For a discussion of the importance to our business of, and the risks attendant to sourcing, see "Risk Factors" in item 1A "We depend on sole source or limited source suppliers, both internal and external, for some of our key components and materials, including exotic materials, certain cutting-edge optics and crystals, used in our products, which make us susceptible to supply shortages or price fluctuations that could adversely affect our business, particularly our ability to meet our customers' delivery requirements." Operations Our products are manufactured at our sites in California, Oregon, Arizona, Michigan, New Jersey, Connecticut and New Hampshire in the U.S.; Germany, Scotland, Finland, Sweden, Switzerland and Spain in Europe; and South Korea, China, 15 Singapore and Malaysia in Asia. In addition, we also use contract manufacturers for the production of certain assemblies and turnkey solutions. Our ion gas lasers, a portion of our DPSS lasers that are used in microelectronics, scientific research and materials processing applications, semiconductor lasers, OPS lasers and ultrafast scientific lasers are manufactured at our Santa Clara, California site. Our laser diode module products, laser instrumentation products, test and measurement equipment products are manufactured in Wilsonville, Oregon. We manufacture exotic crystals in East Hanover, New Jersey and both active and passive fibers are manufactured in our Salem, New Hampshire facility. Our low power CO 2 and CO gas lasers are manufactured in Bloomfield, Connecticut. We manufacture a portion of our DPSS lasers used in microelectronics and OEM components and instrumentation applications in Lbeck, Germany. We manufacture a portion of our DPSS lasers used in microelectronics, OEM components and instrumentation and materials processing applications in Kaiserslautern, Germany. Our excimer gas laser products are manufactured in Gttingen, Germany. We refurbish excimer tubes at our manufacturing sites in An-Seong, South Korea. We manufacture the fiber-based lasers and a portion of our DPSS lasers used in microelectronics and scientific research applications in Glasgow, Scotland. Our facility in Sunnyvale, California grows the aluminum-free materials that are incorporated into our semiconductor lasers. Our facility in Richmond, California manufactures large form factor optics for our Linebeam excimer laser annealing systems. We manufacture and test high-power CO 2 , solid-state and fiber laser macro products in Hamburg, Germany; Plymouth, Michigan; East Granby, Connecticut; Tampere, Finland; and Nanjing, China. Our laser marking products are manufactured and tested in Gilching-Munich, Germany; and Singapore. Our micro application products are manufactured and tested in Gilching-Munich, Germany; Tampere, Finland; Plymouth, Michigan; and Belp, Switzerland. Our diode laser products are manufactured and tested in Mainz and Freiburg, Germany; Tucson, Arizona; and Nanjing, China. Anodization of our Slab laser electrodes is performed in Overath, Germany. Our fiber optics and beam delivery systems are manufactured and tested in Molndal, Sweden, and power supplies are manufactured and tested in Starnberg-Munich, Germany. The Company's active and passive fibers and amplifiers are manufactured and tested in East Granby, Connecticut. Optical engines for fiber lasers, fiber lasers modules and wafer material are designed and manufactured in Tampere, Finland. We manufacture and test the laser tools for the Metal Additive Manufacturing (3D Printing) market in Dieburg, Germany. As a result of our acquisition of Ondax in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we manufacture critical components for diode lasers in Monrovia, California. We have transferred several products and subassemblies for manufacture and repairs to our Singapore, Malaysia and Nanjing, China facilities and are continuing to transfer additional product manufacturing to these facilities as part of our worldwide manufacturing cost reduction strategy. Coherent is committed to meeting internationally recognized manufacturing standards. All of our legacy Coherent facilities are ISO 9001 certified and several facilities are ISO 13485, ISO 14001, ISO 17025 and/or ISO 50001 certified depending on the products designed and manufactured at that facility. Substantially all of our legacy Rofin facilities are either ISO 9001 certified or are in the process of being certified. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. As of September 28, 2019 , we held approximately 785 U.S. and foreign patents, which expire in calendar years 2019 through 2038 (depending on the payment of maintenance fees) and we have approximately 225 additional pending patent applications that have been filed. The issued patents cover various products in all of the major markets that we serve. Some of our products are designed to include intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to aspects of our products, processes and services. While we have generally been able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained on reasonable terms in the future or at all. For a discussion of the importance to our business of, and the risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A "If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, our competitive advantage could be harmed" and "We may, in the future, be subject to claims or litigation from third parties, for claims of infringement of their proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors or other rights holders. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel. Adverse resolution of litigation may harm our operating results or financial condition." COMPETITION 16 Competition in the various photonics markets in which we provide products is very intense. We compete against a number of large public and private companies including IPG Photonics Corporation, Lumentum Holdings Inc., MKS Instruments, Inc., Novanta Inc., nLIGHT, Inc., II-VI Incorporated, Wuhan Raycus Fiber Laser Technologies Co., Ltd, and TRUMPF GmbH, as well as other smaller companies. In addition, from time to time our customers may also decide to vertically integrate and build their own photonics products. We compete globally based on our broad product offering, reliability, cost, and performance advantages for the widest range of commercial and scientific research applications. Other considerations by our customers include warranty, global service and support and distribution. BACKLOG At fiscal 2019 year-end, our backlog of orders scheduled for shipment (within one year) was $502.1 million compared to $759.9 million at fiscal 2018 year-end. By segment, backlog for OLS was $309.5 million and $488.8 million at fiscal 2019 and 2018 year-ends, respectively. Backlog for ILS was $192.6 million and $271.1 million at fiscal 2019 and 2018 year-ends, respectively. The decrease in OLS backlog from fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2019 year-end was primarily due to lower orders for excimer laser annealing systems for the flat panel display market. The decrease in ILS backlog from fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2019 year-end was primarily due to lower orders in the materials processing and high power fiber laser markets. Orders used to compute backlog are generally cancellable and, depending on the notice period, are subject to rescheduling by our customers. We have not historically experienced a significant rate of cancellation or rescheduling, however the rate of cancellations or rescheduling may increase in the future. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, one customer cancelled three purchase orders which included orders shippable within 12 months from fiscal 2018 year-end of $38.2 million and were included in backlog as of fiscal 2018 year-end. We reached agreement with this customer for compensation for such cancellation in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. SEASONALITY We have historically generally experienced decreased revenue in the first fiscal quarter compared to other quarters in our fiscal year due to the impact of time off and business closures at our facilities and those of many of our customers due to year-end holidays. For example, over the past 10 years, excluding certain recovery years, our first fiscal quarter revenues have ranged 2%-17% below the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal years. This historical pattern should not be considered a reliable indicator of the Company's future net sales or financial performance. EMPLOYEES As of fiscal 2019 year-end, we had 5,184 employees. Approximately 642 of our employees are involved in research and development; 3,366 of our employees are involved in operations, manufacturing, service and quality assurance; and 1,176 of our employees are involved in sales, order administration, marketing, finance, information technology, general management and other administrative functions. Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain employees. We face competition in this regard from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. ACQUISITIONS On October 5, 2018, we acquired privately held Ondax for approximately $12.0 million, excluding transaction costs. Ondax develops and produces photonic components which are used on an OEM basis by the laser industry as well as incorporated into its own stabilized lasers and Raman Spectroscopy systems. On October 5, 2018, we acquired certain assets of Quantum for approximately $7.0 million, excluding transaction costs. On March 8, 2018, we acquired privately held OR Laser for approximately $47.4 million, excluding transaction costs. OR Laser produces laser-based material processing equipment for a variety of uses, including additive manufacturing, welding, cladding, marking, engraving and drilling. On November 7, 2016, we acquired Rofin, one of the world's leading developers and manufacturers of high-performance industrial laser sources and laser-based solutions and components, for approximately $936.3 million . Rofin's operating results have been included primarily in our Industrial Lasers & Systems segment. Please refer to Note 4, "Business Combinations" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 15 of this annual report for further discussion of recent acquisitions completed. RESTRUCTURINGS AND CONSOLIDATION In the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we began the implementation of planned restructuring activities in connection with the acquisition of Rofin. The activities to date under this plan primarily related to exiting our legacy high power fiber laser product 17 line, change of control payments to Rofin officers, the exiting of two product lines acquired in the acquisition of Rofin, realignment of our supply chain due to segment reorganization and consolidation of sales and distribution offices as well as certain manufacturing sites. These activities resulted in charges primarily for employee termination, other exit related costs associated with the write-off of property and equipment and inventory and early lease termination costs. The fiscal 2018 severance related costs are primarily comprised of severance pay for employees being terminated due to the consolidation of certain manufacturing sites. The fiscal 2018 asset write-offs are primarily comprised of inventory and equipment write-offs due to the consolidation of certain manufacturing sites. In June 2019, we announced our plans to co-locate the manufacturing and engineering of our HPFL products at our Hamburg, Germany, facility to our Tampere, Finland, location and exit a portion of our HPFL business, expected to be completed during fiscal 2020. In conjunction with this announcement, we recorded restructuring charges in fiscal 2019 of $19.7 million. The charges primarily relate to estimated severance and write-offs of excess inventory, which is recorded in cost of sales. We plan to continue additional restructuring activities in fiscal 2020 related to the relocation of our HPFL products and our acquisition of Rofin. We have also announced our intent to vacate our leased facility in Santa Clara at the end of the current lease term in calendar 2020 and combine operations at our Santa Clara headquarters. We did not incur material expenses in fiscal 2019 related to this project. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Environmental regulation Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, handling and disposal of regulated materials, chemicals, various radioactive materials and certain waste products. In the United States, we are subject to the federal regulation and control of the Environmental Protection Agency. Comparable authorities are involved in other countries. Such rules are subject to change by the governing agency and we monitor those changes closely. We expect all operations to meet the legal and regulatory environmental requirements and believe that compliance with those regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive and financial position. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of such materials comply with the standards required by federal and state laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident involving such materials, we could be liable for damages and such liability could exceed the amount of our liability insurance coverage and the resources of our business. We face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations due to the evolving nature of environmental compliance regulations and standards, as well as specific customer compliance requirements. These regulations and standards have an impact on the material composition of our products entering specific markets. Such legislation has gone into effect at various time across the worldwide markets. For example, in the European Union ("EU"), the Restriction of the use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) went into effect in 2006, and was subsequently revised in 2011 (as RoHS 2) and again in 2015 (as RoHS 2 amended or commonly known as RoHS3) and came into in effect in July 2019. The Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) went into effect in 2007, and is updated with additional substances of very high concern (SVHC) every six months as well as restricted and authorized substances periodically. China enacted the Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products Regulation (China-RoHS) in 2007, which was revised and renamed in 2016 as the Administrative Measures for the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Products (known as China RoHS 2). The first catalog of products under China RoHS 2 was published in March 2018 and covers primarily consumer type products and does not presently include Coherent products. Another example is the US Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Conflict Minerals Act) which requires manufacturers to provide disclosures about the use of specified conflict minerals emanating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and nine adjoining countries (Covered Countries). In addition to these regulations and directives, we may face costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. For example, beginning in 2006 (with several subsequent revisions), the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) 2012/19/EU made producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, recovery, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Similar laws are now pending in various jurisdictions around the world, including the United States. Environmental liabilities Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations governing the environment, including the discharge of pollutants and the management and disposal of hazardous substances. As a result of our historic as well as on-going operations, we could incur substantial costs, including remediation costs. The costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs 18 are difficult to predict. Our accruals for such costs and liabilities may not be adequate because the estimates on which the accruals are based depend on a number of factors including the nature of the matter, the complexity of the site, site geology, the nature and extent of contamination, the type of remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other Potentially Responsible Parties (PRPs) at multi-party sites and the number and financial viability of other PRPs. We further discuss the impact of environmental regulation under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A "Compliance or the failure to comply with current and future environmental regulations could cause us significant expense." Regulatory Compliance Lasers that are manufactured or sold in the United States are classified under the applicable rules and regulations of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health ("CDRH") of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). A similar classification system is applied in the European markets. CDRH regulations require a self-certification procedure pursuant to which a manufacturer must submit a filing to the CDRH with respect to each product incorporating a laser, make periodic reports of sales and purchases, and comply with product labeling standards, product safety and design features and informational requirements. The CDRH is empowered to seek fines and other remedies for violations of their requirements. We believe that our products are in material compliance with the applicable rules and regulations of CDRH relating to lasers manufactured or sold in the United States. 19 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the followings risks when considering an investment in our common stock. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under Forward-Looking Statements and the risk of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report. Additionally, these risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operating results, including net sales, net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA in dollars and as a percentage of net sales, as well as our stock price have varied in the past, and our future operating results will continue to be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations based upon numerous factors, including those discussed in this Item 1A and throughout this report. Our stock price will continue to be subject to daily variations as well. Our future operating results and stock price may not follow any past trends or meet our guidance and expectations. Our net sales and operating results, such as adjusted EBITDA percentage, net income (loss) and operating expenses, and our stock price have varied in the past and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year in the future. We believe a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, could cause these variations and make them difficult to predict, including: general economic uncertainties in the macroeconomic and local economies facing us, our customers and the markets we serve, particularly in China and the Eurozone; impact of government economic policies on macroeconomic conditions, such as recently instituted, proposed or threatened changes in trade policies by the U.S. and any corresponding retaliatory actions by affected countries, in particular with respect to China, and trade restrictions the Japanese government has recently instituted affecting the export to South Korea of certain products and materials used in the manufacture of flat panel displays and in the semiconductor industry; fluctuations in demand for our products or downturns in the industries that we serve, particularly the continued build-out of phase 2 of the capacity for the manufacture of OLED and the increased use of the installed base of our products in such manufacturing; the ability of our suppliers, both internal and external, to produce and deliver components and parts, including sole or limited source components, in a timely manner, in the quantity, quality and prices desired; the timing of receipt of bookings and the timing of and our ability to ultimately convert bookings to net sales; the concentration of a significant amount of our backlog, and resultant net sales, with a few customers in the Microelectronics market; rescheduling of shipments or cancellation of orders by our customers; fluctuations in our product mix; the ability of our customers' other suppliers to provide sufficient material to support our customers' products; currency fluctuations and stability, in particular the Euro, the Japanese Yen, the South Korean Won, the Chinese RMB and the U.S. Dollar as compared to other currencies; commodity pricing; interpretation and impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; introductions of new products and product enhancements by our competitors, entry of new competitors into our markets, pricing pressures and other competitive factors; 20 the increasing focus by companies in China to vertically integrate and consolidate their supply chains fully with products manufactured in China; our ability to develop, introduce, manufacture and ship new and enhanced products in a timely manner without defects; our ability to manage our manufacturing capacity across our diverse product lines and that of our suppliers, including our ability to successfully expand our manufacturing capacity in various locations around the world; our ability to successfully and fully integrate acquisitions, such as the historical Rofin businesses, into our operations and management; our ability to successfully internally transfer the manufacturing of products and related operations as part of our integration and internal reorganization efforts and to realize anticipated benefits (including savings) therefrom, such as with our recently announced plan to co-locate the manufacturing and engineering of our High Power Fiber Lasers ("HPFL") products at our Hamburg, Germany, facility to our Tampere, Finland, location and exit a portion of our HPFL business, expected to be completed during fiscal 2020; our reliance on contract manufacturing; our reliance in part upon the ability of our OEM customers to develop and sell systems that incorporate our laser products; our customers' ability to manage their susceptibility to adverse economic conditions; the rate of market acceptance of our new products; the ability of our customers to pay for our products; expenses associated with acquisition-related activities, including the costs of acquiring businesses or technologies; seasonal sales trends, including with respect to Rofin's historical business, which has traditionally experienced a reduction in sales during the first half of its fiscal year as compared to the second half of its fiscal year; jurisdictional capital and currency controls negatively impacting our ability to move funds from or to an applicable jurisdiction; access to applicable credit markets by us, our customers and their end customers; the impact of rising Chinese consumer debt and eroding consumer confidence and spending in China; delays or reductions in customer purchases of our products in anticipation of the introduction of new and enhanced products by us or our competitors; our ability to control expenses; the level of capital spending of our customers; potential excess and/or obsolescence of our inventory; costs and timing of adhering to current and developing governmental regulations and reviews relating to our products and business, including import and export regulations in multiple jurisdictions; impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets; our ability to meet our expectations and forecasts and those of public market analysts and investors; the availability of research funding by governments with regard to our customers in the scientific business, such as universities; 21 continued government spending on defense-related and scientific research projects where we are a vendor directly or as a subcontractor; maintenance of supply relating to products sold to the government on terms which we would prefer not to accept; changes in policy, interpretations, or challenges to the allowability of costs incurred under government cost accounting standards; our ability and the ability of our contractual counterparts to comply with the terms of our contracts; damage to our reputation as a result of coverage in social media, Internet blogs or other media outlets; managing our and other parties' compliance with contracts in multiple languages and jurisdictions; managing our internal and third party sales representatives and distributors, including compliance with all applicable laws; costs, expenses and damages arising from litigation; costs associated with designing around or payment of licensing fees associated with issued patents in our fields of business; individual employees intentionally or negligently failing to comply with our internal controls; government support of alternative energy industries, such as solar; negative impacts related to the "Brexit" vote by the United Kingdom, including uncertainties regarding the effects of an increasingly prolonged Brexit process and the possibility of a no-deal exit by the United Kingdom from the European Union, particularly with regard to any potential negative effects on our sales from our Glasgow, Scotland facility to other jurisdictions and purchases of supplies from outside the United Kingdom by such facility; negative impacts related to the recent independence movement in Catalonia, Spain, particularly with regard to holding and operating some of our foreign entities in an efficient manner from a tax, business and legal perspective; negative impacts related to government instability in any jurisdiction in which we operate, such as the recent difficulties in forming a governing coalition in Germany; the future impact of legislation, rulemaking, and changes in accounting, tax, defense procurement and export policies; and distraction of management related to acquisition, integration or divestment activities. In addition, we often recognize a substantial portion of our sales in the last month of our fiscal quarters. Our expenses for any given quarter are typically based on expected sales, and if sales are below expectations in any given quarter, the adverse impact of the shortfall on our operating results may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall. We also base our manufacturing on our forecasted product mix for the quarter. If the actual product mix varies significantly from our forecast, we may not be able to fill some orders during that quarter, which would result in delays in the shipment of our products. Accordingly, variations in timing of sales, particularly for our higher priced, higher margin products, can cause significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our historical operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any quarter or year as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters and years may be below public market analysts' or investors' expectations, which would likely cause the price of our stock to fall. In addition, over the past several years, U.S. and global equity markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock prices of many technology companies both in and outside our industry. There has not always been a direct correlation between this volatility and the performance of particular companies subject to these stock price fluctuations. These factors, as well as general economic and political 22 conditions or investors' concerns regarding the credibility of corporate financial statements, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock in the future. We depend on sole source or limited source suppliers, as well as on our own production capabilities, for some of the key components and materials, including exotic materials, certain cutting-edge optics and crystals, used in our products, which make us susceptible to supply shortages or price fluctuations that could adversely affect our business, particularly our ability to meet our customers' delivery requirements. We currently purchase several key components and materials used in the manufacture of our products from sole source or limited source suppliers. In particular, from time-to-time our customers require us to ramp up production and/or accelerate delivery schedules of our products. Our key suppliers may not have the ability to increase their production in line with our customers' demands. This can become acute during times of high growth in our customers' businesses. Our failure to timely receive these key components and materials would likely cause delays in the shipment of our products, which would likely negatively impact both our customers and our business. Some of these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time and which may be particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. Some of our suppliers are located in regions which may be susceptible to natural and man-made disasters, such as the flooding in Thailand and the earthquake, tsunami and resulting nuclear disaster in Japan and severe flooding and power loss in the Eastern part of the United States and in California. We typically purchase our components and materials through purchase orders or agreed upon terms and conditions, and we do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. For certain long-lead time supplies or in order to lock-in pricing, we may be obligated to place non-cancellable purchase orders or otherwise assume liability for a large amount of the ordered supplies, which limits our ability to adjust down our inventory liability in the event of market downturns or other customer cancellations or rescheduling of their purchase orders for our products. Some of our products, particularly in the flat panel display industry, require designs and specifications that are at the cutting-edge of available technologies and change frequently to meet rapidly evolving market demands. By their very nature, the types of components used in such products can be difficult and unpredictable to manufacture and may only be available from a single supplier, which increases the risk that we may not obtain such components in a timely manner. Identifying alternative sources of supply for certain components could be difficult and costly, result in management distraction in assisting our current and future suppliers to meet our and our customers' technical requirements, and cause delays in shipments of our products while we identify, evaluate and test the products of alternative suppliers. Any such delay in shipment would result in a delay or cancellation of our ability to convert such order into revenues. Furthermore, financial or other difficulties faced by these suppliers or significant changes in demand for these components or materials could limit their availability. We continue to consolidate our supply base and move supplier locations. When we transition locations, we may increase our inventory of such products as a "safety stock" during the transition, which may cause the amount of inventory reflected on our balance sheet to increase. Additionally, many of our customers rely on sole source suppliers. In the event of a disruption of our customers' supply chain, orders from our customers could decrease or be delayed. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, or our failure to properly manage these moves, would impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. Furthermore, we have historically relied exclusively on our own production capability to manufacture certain strategic components, crystals, semiconductor lasers, fiber, lasers and laser-based systems. We also manufacture certain large format optics. Because we manufacture, package and test these components, products and systems at our own facilities, and such components, products and systems are not readily available from other sources, any interruption in manufacturing would adversely affect our business. Since many of our products have lengthy qualification periods, our ability to introduce multiple suppliers for parts may be limited. In addition, our failure to achieve adequate manufacturing yields of these items at our manufacturing facilities may materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We participate in the microelectronics market, which requires significant research and development expenses to develop and maintain products and a failure to achieve market acceptance for our products could have a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations. The microelectronics market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions, the volatility of product supply and demand, changing customer requirements and evolving industry standards. The nature of this market requires significant research and development expenses to participate, with substantial resources invested in advance of material sales of our products to our customers in this market. Additionally, our product offerings may become obsolete given the frequent introduction of alternative technologies. In the event either our customers' or our products fail to gain market 23 acceptance, or the microelectronics market fails to grow, it would likely have a significant negative effect on our business and results of operations. We participate in the flat panel display market, which has a relatively limited number of end customer manufacturers. Our backlog, timing of net sales and results of operations could be negatively impacted in the event we face any significant periods with few or no orders or our customers reschedule or cancel orders. In the flat panel display market, there are a relatively limited number of manufacturers who are the end customers for our annealing products. In fiscal 2019, Advanced Process Systems Corporation, an integrator in the flat panel display market based in South Korea, contributed more than 10% of our revenue. Given macroeconomic conditions, varying consumer demand and technical process limitations at manufacturers, we may see fluctuations in orders, including periods with no or few orders, and our customers may seek to reschedule or cancel orders. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, a customer requested a change of delivery date resulting in a significant order being rescheduled from the first to the second quarter of fiscal 2019. In addition, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, one customer cancelled three purchase orders which included backlog shippable within 12 months of $38.2 million as well as some additional orders which were unscheduled. These larger flat panel-related systems have large average selling prices. Any significant periods with few or no orders or any rescheduling or canceling of such orders by our customers will likely have a significant impact on our quarterly or annual net sales and results of operations and could negatively impact inventory values and backlog. Additionally, challenges in meeting evolving technological requirements for these complex products by us and our suppliers could also result in delays in shipments and rescheduled or cancelled orders by our customers. This could negatively impact our backlog, timing of net sales and results of operations. As of September 28, 2019 , flat panel display systems represented 25% of our backlog. Since our flat panel display systems have higher average selling prices than other products in our backlog, any delays or cancellation of shipments could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may not be able to integrate the business of Rofin successfully with our own, realize the anticipated benefits of the merger or manage our expanded operations, any of which would adversely affect our results of operations. We have devoted, and expect to continue to devote, significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices with those of Rofin. Such integration efforts are costly due to the large number of processes, policies, procedures, locations, operations, technologies and systems to be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, service, operations, payroll, pricing, marketing and employee benefits. Integration expenses could, particularly in the short term, exceed the savings we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale, which could result in significant charges to earnings that we cannot currently quantify. Potential difficulties that we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine our business with Rofin in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the full synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the merger; complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating products, services, complex and different information technology systems (including different Enterprise Management Systems), control and compliance processes, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a cohesive manner; diversion of the attention of our management; the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our business; and inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, difficulties in implementing our Enterprise Management Systems at one of our manufacturing sites located in Germany, which was historically part of Rofin, resulted in a shortage of manufacturing parts and shippable inventory to meet demands, resulting in a reduction of revenue for that quarter. If similar difficulties arise in the future and we are unable to resolve them in a timely 24 manner, we may experience a shortage of parts and inventory or otherwise be unable to meet demand, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Following the merger, the size and complexity of the business of the combined company has increased significantly. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which has and will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. For example, we recently announced two planned site consolidations: (1) the relocation of the manufacturing and engineering of our HPFL products from our Hamburg, Germany, facility to our Tampere, Finland, location and the exit from a portion of our HPFL business, expected to be completed during fiscal 2020, and (2) vacating our leased facility in Santa Clara at the end of the current lease term in calendar 2020 and combining the operations at our Santa Clara headquarters. The execution of these consolidation projects could result in temporary loss of productivity or operational efficiency, interruptions in manufacturing or other unforeseen challenges while the projects are ongoing. Moreover, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in realizing the anticipated savings in connection with these consolidations or with our broader efforts to manage our expanded business or that we will realize the expected synergies and benefits anticipated from the merger. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting to the Rofin acquisition may adversely affect our results of operations. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we have accounted for the Rofin acquisition using the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase method of accounting, we allocated the total purchase price of Rofin's net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. We have incurred and will continue to incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. These depreciation, amortization and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. Our indebtedness following the Rofin merger is substantially greater than our indebtedness prior to the merger. This increased level of indebtedness could adversely affect us, including by decreasing our business flexibility, and will increase our borrowing costs. In November 2016, we entered into a credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), which provided for a 670.0 million Euro term loan, all of which was drawn, and a $100.0 million revolving credit facility, under which a 10 million Euro letter of credit was issued. As of September 28, 2019 , 364.9 million Euros were outstanding under the term loan. As of September 28, 2019 , the revolving credit facility had been used for guarantees of 10.0 million Euros as well as borrowings of $10.0 million . We may incur additional indebtedness in the future by accessing the revolving credit facility and/or entering into new financing arrangements. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal of our current indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations and the ongoing interest rate environment. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants, including covenants regarding the payment of taxes and other obligations, maintenance of insurance, reporting requirements and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and negative covenants, including covenants limiting the ability of us and our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur debt, grant liens, make investments, make certain restricted payments, transact with affiliates, and sell assets. The Credit Agreement also requires us and our subsidiaries to maintain a senior secured net leverage ratio as of the last day of each fiscal quarter of less of than or equal to 3.50 to 1.00. The Credit Agreement contains customary events of default that include, among other things, payment defaults, cross defaults with certain other indebtedness, violation of covenants, inaccuracy of representations and warranties in any material respect, change in control of us and Coherent Holding BV & Co. K.G. (formerly Coherent Holding GmbH), judgment defaults, and bankruptcy and insolvency events. If an event of default exists, the lenders may require the immediate payment of all obligations and exercise certain other rights and remedies provided for under the Credit Agreement, the other loan documents and applicable law. The acceleration of such obligations is automatic upon the occurrence of a bankruptcy and insolvency event of default. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources or we will be able to arrange financing to repay our borrowings at such time. Our substantially increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio as a result of the Rofin merger in comparison to that prior to the merger will have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and will increase our borrowing costs. In addition, the amount of cash required to service our increased indebtedness levels and thus the demands on our cash resources will be greater than the amount of cash flows required to 25 service our indebtedness or that of Rofin individually prior to the merger. The increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce funds available for our investments in product development as well as capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. Some of our laser systems are complex in design and may contain defects that are not detected until deployed by our customers, which could increase our costs and reduce our net sales. Lasers and laser systems are inherently complex in design and require ongoing regular maintenance. The manufacture of our lasers, laser products and systems involves a highly complex and precise process. As a result of the technological complexity of our products, in particular our excimer laser annealing tools used in the flat panel display market, changes in our or our suppliers' manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve and maintain our projected yields or product reliability, our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships would be adversely affected. We provide warranties on a majority of our product sales, and reserves for estimated warranty costs are recorded during the period of sale. The determination of such reserves requires us to make estimates of failure rates and expected costs to repair or replace the products under warranty. We typically establish warranty reserves based on historical warranty costs for each product line. If actual return rates and/or repair and replacement costs differ significantly from our estimates, adjustments to cost of sales may be required in future periods which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated, including under the end user's peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to identify and fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: loss of customers or orders; increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; damage to our brand reputation; failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; diversion of development, engineering and manufacturing resources; and legal actions by our customers and/or their end users. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued volatility in the advanced packaging and semiconductor manufacturing markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our net sales in the microelectronics market depends on the demand for our products by advanced packaging applications and semiconductor equipment companies. These markets have historically been characterized by sudden and severe cyclical variations in product supply and demand, which have often severely affected the demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, including laser-based tools and systems. The timing, severity and duration of these market cycles are difficult to predict, and we may not be able to respond effectively to these cycles. The continuing uncertainty in these markets severely limits our ability to predict our business prospects or financial results in these markets. During industry downturns, our net sales from these markets may decline suddenly and significantly. Our ability to rapidly and effectively reduce our cost structure in response to such downturns is limited by the fixed nature of many of our expenses in the near term and by our need to continue our investment in next-generation product technology and to support and service our products. In addition, due to the relatively long manufacturing lead times for some of the systems and subsystems we sell to these markets, we may incur expenditures or purchase raw materials or components for products we cannot sell. Accordingly, downturns in the semiconductor capital equipment market may materially harm our operating results. Conversely, when upturns in these markets occur, we must be able to rapidly and effectively increase our manufacturing capacity to meet increases in customer demand that may be extremely rapid, and if we fail to do so we may lose business to our competitors and our relationships with our customers may be harmed. 26 Worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties could negatively impact demand for our products and results of operations. Volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, depressed consumer confidence, government economic policies, negative economic conditions, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending could negatively impact demand for our products. In particular, it is difficult to develop and implement strategy, sustainable business models and efficient operations, as well as effectively manage supply chain relationships, in the face of such conditions, including uncertainty regarding the ability of some of our suppliers to continue operations and provide us with uninterrupted supply flow. Our ability to maintain our research and development investments in our broad product offerings may be adversely impacted in the event that our future sales decline or remain flat. Spending and the timing thereof by consumers and businesses have a significant impact on our results and, where such spending is delayed or cancelled, it could have a material negative impact on our operating results. Current global economic conditions remain uncertain and challenging. Weakness in our end markets could negatively impact our net sales, gross margin and operating expenses, and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainty in global fiscal policy has likely had an adverse impact on global financial markets and overall economic activity in recent years. Should this uncertain financial policy continue to occur or recur, it would likely continue to, and may in the future, negatively impact global economic activity. Any weakness in global economies would also likely have negative repercussions on U.S. and global credit and financial markets, and further exacerbate sovereign debt concerns in the European Union. All of these factors would likely adversely impact the global demand for our products and the performance of our investments, and would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, as has occurred in recent years, could result in tighter credit markets and lower levels of liquidity in some financial markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from a tightened credit environment on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions negatively impacting our treasury functions. In the event our customers are unable to obtain credit or otherwise pay for our shipped products it could significantly impact our ability to collect on our outstanding accounts receivable. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Volatility in the financial markets and any overall economic uncertainty increase the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. Uncertainty about global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts, terrorist acts, civil unrest and mass migration may put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and the rest of the world. Unstable economic, political and social conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Additionally, unstable economic conditions can provide significant pressures and burdens on individuals, which could cause them to engage in inappropriate business conduct. See "Part II, Item 9A.