Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Boards of Directors of II-VI and Coherent unanimously approved the Merger and the Merger Agreement. II-VI filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 relating to the Merger, and the SEC declared that registration statement to be effective on May 6, 2021. Shareholders of II-VI and stockholders of Coherent voted to approve proposals related to the Merger at special meetings held on June 24, 2021 by the respective companies. The completion of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain additional customary closing conditions, including review and approval of the Merger by the State Administration for Market Regulation in China. Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of each of the closing conditions, II-VI expects that the Merger will be completed by the end of the first calendar quarter of 2022. However, it is possible that factors outside the control of both companies could result in the Merger being completed at a different time or not at all. In connection with entering into the Merger Agreement, II-VI has obtained a fully underwritten financing commitment pursuant to a commitment letter (the Commitment Letter), dated as of March 25, 2021, as further amended and restated on April 21, 2021, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., MUFG Bank, Ltd., MUFG Securities Americas Inc., PNC Capital Markets LLC, PNC Bank, National Association, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Citizens Bank, N.A., Mizuho Bank, Ltd., BMO Capital Markets Corp., Bank of Montreal, TD Securities (USA) LLC, The Toronto-Dominion Bank, New York Branch, TD Bank, N.A. and First National Bank of Pennsylvania (collectively, the Commitment Parties) pursuant to which the Commitment Parties have committed to provide up to $5.1 billion in debt financing ( the Debt Financing). The obligation of the Commitment Parties to provide the Debt Financing provided for in the Commitment Letter is subject to a number of customary conditions. 6 In connection with entering into the Merger Agreement, II-VI entered into an Amended and Restated Investment Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2021, (the Investment Agreement), with BCPE Watson (DE) SPV, LP, an affiliate of Bain Capital Private Equity, LP (the Investor). Pursuant to the terms of the Investment Agreement, on March 31, 2021, II-VI issued, sold, and delivered to the Investor 75,000 shares of a new Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company, no par value per share (II-VI Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock), for $10,000 per share (the Equity Per Share Price), resulting in an aggregate purchase price of $750 million. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Investment Agreement, among other things, the Company and the Investor also agreed that the Company would issue, sell and deliver to the Investor: 105,000 shares of a new Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company, no par value per share (II-VI Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock, and together with the II-VI Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock, New II-VI Convertible Preferred Stock), for a purchase price per share equal to the Equity Per Share Price, resulting in an aggregate purchase price of $1.1 billion, immediately prior to Closing; and immediately prior to Closing, if elected by the Company and agreed by the Investor, up to an additional 35,000 shares of II-VI Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Upsize Shares") for a purchase price per share equal to the Equity Per Share Price, resulting in an aggregate maximum purchase price for the Upsize Shares of $350 million. Following the Companys provision of notice to the Investor of its election to offer the Upsize Shares, the Investor informed the Company on June 8, 2021 of its agreement to purchase the Upsize Shares from the Company immediately prior to the Closing, increasing the Investors total equity commitment to II-VI pursuant to the Investment Agreement to $2.2 billion. The expenses associated with the pending acquisition for the year ended June 30, 2021, have not been allocated to an Operating Segment, and are presented in the Unallocated and Other in Note 15, Segment and Geographic Reporting. General Description of Business We develop, manufacture, and market engineered materials, optoelectronic components, and devices for use in optical communications, industrial, aerospace and defense, consumer electronics, semiconductor capital equipment, life sciences, and automotive applications and markets. We use advanced engineered materials growth technologies and proprietary high-precision fabrication, microassembly, optical thin-film coating, and electronic integration to manufacture complex optoelectronic devices and modules. Our products are deployed in a variety of applications, including (i) optical, data, and wireless communications products; (ii) laser cutting, welding, and marking operations; (iii) 3D sensing consumer applications; (iv) aerospace and defense applications including intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance; (v) semiconductor processing tools; and (vi) thermoelectric cooling and power-generation solutions. Through RD&E investments and its strategic acquisitions, II-VI has expanded its portfolio of materials and product platforms. We believe that the materials we grow and fabricate are differentiated by one or a combination of unique optical, electrical, thermal, and mechanical properties. II-VIs optics are shaped by precision surfacing techniques to meet the most stringent requirements for flat or curved geometries, functionalized with smooth or structured surfaces, or with patterned metallization. Proprietary processes developed at our global optical coating centers differentiate our products durability against high-energy lasers and extreme operating environments. Optical coatings also provide the desired spectral characteristics, ranging from the ultraviolet to the far-infrared. II-VI leverages these capabilities to deliver miniature to large-scale precision optical assemblies, including those in combination with thermal-management components, integrated electronics, and software. II-VI also offers a broad portfolio of compound semiconductor lasers that are used in a variety of applications in our end markets. These lasers enable optical signal transmission, reception, and amplification in terrestrial and submarine communications networks; high-bit-rate server connectivity between and within datacenters; optical communications network monitoring; materials processing; and fast and accurate measurements in biomedical instruments and consumer electronics. II-VI continues to improve its operational capabilities, develop next-generation products, and invest in new technology platforms to drive growth in the short term and the long term. With our strategic focus on fast-growing and sustainable markets, II-VI pursues its mission of enabling the world to be safer, healthier, closer, and more efficient, and strives to attain its vision of a world transformed through innovative materials vital to a better life today and the sustainability of future generations. Information Regarding Market Segments and Foreign Operations 7 Financial data regarding our revenues, results of operations, industry segments, and international sales for the three years ended June 30, 2021, are set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) and in Note 15. Segment and Geographic Reporting to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference. We also discuss certain Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K related to our foreign operations, which are incorporated herein by reference. Bookings and Backlog We define our bookings as customer orders received that are expected to be converted to revenues over the next 12 months. The Company reports as bookings only those orders that are expected to be converted into revenues within 12 months from the end of the reporting period. Bookings are adjusted if changes in customer demands or production schedules cause the expected time of a delivery to extend beyond 12 months. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, our bookings were approximately $3.3 billion, compared with bookings of approximately $2.7 billion for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020. We define our backlog as bookings that have not been converted to revenues by the end of the reporting period. As of June 30, 2021, our backlog was approximately $1,252 million, compared with approximately $957 million as of June 30, 2020. Global Operations II-VI is headquartered in Saxonburg, Pennsylvania, U.S.A., with RD&E, manufacturing, and sales facilities worldwide. Our U.S. production and RD&E operations are located in Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and Texas, and our non-U.S. production and RD&E operations are based in Australia, China, Germany, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the United Kingdom, and Vietnam. We also utilize contract manufacturers and strategic suppliers. In addition to sales offices co-located at most of our manufacturing sites, we have sales and marketing subsidiaries in Belgium, Canada, China, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Switzerland, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom. Human Capital Our mission is Enabling the world to be safer, healthier, closer, and more efficient. Our vision is A world transformed through innovative materials vital to a better life today and the sustainability of future generations. Our core values are: Integrity, Collaboration, Accountability, Respect, and Enthusiasm (I CARE). Our people are essential to fulfilling our mission and working toward our vision. As a result, our human capital strategies are core to the long-term success of the Company. As of June 30, 2021, the Company employed approximately 23,000 employees worldwide. Number of employees Percent of total Direct production 15,833 69% Research, development, engineering, sales and marketing 4,276 19% General administration 2,852 12% Total: 22,961 100% We believe that our efforts in managing our workforce have been effective, as evidenced by a strong culture and a good relationship between the Company and our employees. Our People . Our people are critical to our continued success. We provide a workplace that develops, supports, and motivates our employees. In FY21, we again participated in the Gallup Employee Engagement Survey. We believe Gallups employee engagement survey questions and resources are an effective way to gauge our progress to create a stronger, more engaged workplace. Gallup provides comparative data from numerous studies over many years linked to organizational performance, proven consistent survey methodology, and actionable guidance at both the local and enterprise level. We had a 94% participation rate and an engagement mean of 4.16 out of 5.00. The responses to each of 8 the 12 questions within Gallups survey demonstrated improvement by us from our prior survey conducted in FY19. Action plans are created across the globe to continue to improve our engagement level. Employee Safety . It is our highest priority to keep our employees, customers, and suppliers safe, as the health and safety of our workforce is fundamental to the success of our business. We provide our employees upfront and ongoing safety training to ensure that safety policies and procedures are effectively communicated and implemented. We have experienced employees on-site at each of our manufacturing locations who are tasked with environmental, health, and personal safety education and compliance. The safety calculation recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), is closely monitored throughout the Company. As of June 30, 2021, our TRIR was 0.23 as compared to 0.26 for FY20. Each year, we strive to improve our TRIR as a part of our strong safety culture, as evidenced by a year-over-year reduction of 12%. We customize our policies to the local requirements and circumstances of each plant. COVID-19. Our top priority during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has been and continues to be protecting the health and safety of our employees and their families, our customers, and our communities. Our on-site work environments were changed to accommodate best-in-class protocols. The commitment to this effort is evidenced by the extensive planning and numerous actions we swiftly took to respond to the pandemic, including the development and implementation of a Pandemic Response Team and Pandemic Response Guide, a work-from-home program, health check protocols, temperature screenings, and periodic COVID-19 testing where permitted and deemed appropriate for all employees working on-site. Additionally, new process workflows were initiated to ensure reduced contact for employees working on-site, contact tracing processes and protocols were established, quarantining and testing protocols for exposure and positive tests were implemented, travel guidelines and protocols were created to ensure that employees who must travel for work can do so safely, and phased return-to-work plans and approval processes were formed to enable non-manufacturing employees to return to work when permitted by local government regulations and deemed appropriate by II-VI leadership. We hired an infectious disease expert who specializes in COVID-19 to offer guidance to our Pandemic Response Team, managers, and site leaders. We are continuing with our work-from-home arrangements for non-manufacturing and operations employees through at least December 2021. Talent Acquisition, Development, and Training . Hiring talented individuals and continuing to develop them are critical to our operations, and we are focused on creating experiences and programs that foster growth and performance. We have a robust succession-planning process that identifies internal candidates for development. We provide all employees the chance to learn and develop critical skills, and we strive to attract, motivate, and retain high-quality talent. We encourage all employees to broaden their knowledge. For example, we offer monthly Technology Spotlight Seminars designed to highlight and communicate the many technical advances and competencies within II-VI, as well as foster innovation within the Company and technical community. Tuition reimbursement and funding for growth and development is built into the annual budget to ensure that II-VI has the skilled workforce we need. Our global internship programs welcome a new talent pipeline. In FY21, II-VI pledged $1,000,000 to fund STEM educational and research programs in 2021. Total Rewards . Our One II-VI approach to total rewards provides a competitive total compensation package that: attracts, motivates, and retains high-quality talent; matches total rewards of competitors with which we compete for talent; increases transparency of rewards programs, company and segment metrics, and measurement of achievements in relation to challenging objectives; balances fixed costs (benefits and base pay) and variable costs (bonus and equity), with a substantial portion of total direct compensation tied to performance; pays for performance base, bonus, and equity reflect both company and individual performance; and aligns with the interests of our shareholders. Globally, all non-sales employees participate in a variable incentive program measured on the operating earnings of their business segment. Similarly, sales employees are incentivized on revenue and profit-after-tax attainment. Select employees are eligible to receive equity-based awards, to align employee and shareholder interests. In addition to offering competitive and fair compensation, we also offer a suite of benefits, including comprehensive health benefits to all of our employees globally. Diversity and Inclusion . II-VI supports fundamental human rights values inherent to all human beings. We expect all leaders and employees to treat each other with dignity, fairness, and respect . We are consciously expanding the diversity of our workforce, creating growth and development opportunities for our employees, embracing different perspectives, and fostering an inclusive work environment. In FY21, we greatly enhanced communication on diversity topics, and globally, employees attended education on Diversity & Inclusion awareness. Globally, approximately 50% of the workforce is female, with 11,428 females and 11,533 males as of June 30, 2021. In the II-VIs Senior Leadership Team (SLT), which consists of senior directors and above, there are 20 females and 179 males. The SLT meets quarterly to discuss strategy, business trends, company operations, financials, and people programs. Our global footprint is diverse, with approximately 18,400 employees in the Asia-Pacific region, 1,000 in Europe, and 3,600 in the Americas. 9 Manufacturing Processes Our success in developing and manufacturing many of our products depends on our ability to manufacture and tailor the optical and physical properties of technically challenging materials and components. The ability to produce, process and refine these complex materials, and to control their quality and in-process yields, is an expertise of the Company that is critical to the performance of our customers subsystems and systems. In the markets we serve, there is a limited number of high-quality suppliers of many of the components we manufacture. Aside from datacenter transceivers, there are very few industry-standard products. Our network of worldwide manufacturing sites allows us to manufacture our products in regions that provide cost-effective and risk management advantages. We employ numerous advanced manufacturing technologies and systems at our manufacturing facilities. These include metal-organic chemical vapor deposition and molecular beam epitaxy reactors, automated computer numeric control optical fabrication, high-throughput thin-film coaters, nanoprecision metrology, and custom-engineered automated furnace controls for crystal growth processes. Manufacturing products for use across the electromagnetic spectrum requires the capability to repeatedly manufacture products with high yields to atomic tolerances. II-VI continuously updates its comprehensive quality management systems that feature manufacturing quality best practices. II-VI is committed to delivering products within specification, on time, and with high quality, with a goal of fully satisfying customers and continually improving. We continue to focus our efforts to convert locations to renewable energy. During the past two fiscal years we have converted 15 of our sites to renewable-electricity contracts. In addition, II-VI participates in Apples Supplier Clean Energy Program, and all of our Apple production facilities are powered with 100% renewable energy. Additionally, our Fremont, California, and Dallas, Texas, facilities are multiyear award recipients for continued compliance with local wastewater treatment programs. Additional information can be found on the Community & Environment section of our website at www.ii-vi.com. The website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, II-VI's website is part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein. Sources of Supply In our production processes, we use numerous optical, electrical, and mechanical parts that are sourced from third-party supplies. These include integrated circuits, mechanical housings, and optical components, and we commonly refer to them as raw materials. The continued high quality of and access to these raw materials are critical to the stability and predictability of our manufacturing yields. We specify and test these raw materials at the onset of and throughout the production process. Additional research and capital investment are sometimes needed to better define future raw materials specifications. As a result of COVID-19, we have experienced some production delays due to shortages of raw materials, and we are driving the development of strategic second sources as part of our overall business continuity planning. We do occasionally experience problems associated with vendor-supplied raw materials not meeting contract specifications for quality or purity. Risks associated with reliance on third parties for the timely and reliable delivery of raw materials is discussed in greater detail in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Business Units The Companys organizational structure is divided into two reporting segments for the purpose of making operational decisions and assessing financial performance: (i) Photonic Solutions and (ii) Compound Semiconductors. The Photonic Solutions Segment leverages II-VIs compound semiconductor technology platforms and deep knowledge of end-user applications for our key end markets to deliver differentiated components and subsystems. The Compound Semiconductors Segment is a market leader in engineered materials and optoelectronic devices such as those based on GaAs, InP, GaN, and SiC. We may from time to time reorganize parts of a given segment or corporate center to drive the focus of certain priorities. II-VIs segments are organized by business unit at the group or division level. Each of these business units develops and markets products as described below. 10 Photonic Solutions Business Unit Our Products ROADM Products and solutions that enable high-bit-rate interconnects for datacenters and communications service providers, datacenter interconnects, ROADM systems, and undersea fiber-optic transmission Transceivers Pluggable transceivers for Ethernet and Fiber Channel applications in cloud and enterprise datacenter applications High-speed optoelectronics and modules for optical communications in telecom networks, including for datacenter interconnects and for metro, regional, long-haul, and ultralong-haul networks Advanced Optics Fiber optics and precision optics used in projection displays; crystal materials and components for optical communications; high-power UV, visible, and NIR optics for industrial lasers; filters and assemblies for life sciences as well as for sensors, instrumentation, and semiconductor equipment 11 Compound Semiconductors Business Unit Our Products Engineered Materials & Laser Optics Laser optics and accessories for CO 2 lasers used in industrial, semiconductors, and life sciences applications High-power fiber and direct-diode laser optics Infrared thermal imaging optics and assemblies Polycrystalline materials production including ZnSe, ZnS, and CVD diamond Thermoelectric components, subassemblies, and systems for heating, cooling, temperature tuning, thermal cycling, and power generation in aerospace and defense, medical, industrial, automotive, consumer, telecommunications, and energy-production markets Specialty refining, recycling, and materials-recovery services for high-purity rare metals such as selenium and tellurium, as well as related chemical products such as tellurium dioxide for optics, photovoltaics, semiconductors, thermoelectric coolers, metallurgy, agriculture, and industrial applications Advanced ceramic and metal-matrix composite products for semiconductor capital equipment, flat-panel displays, industrial and optical equipment, and defense applications Laser Devices & Systems High-power semiconductor lasers and laser bars enabling fiber and direct-diode lasers for industrial, defense, consumer, and printing applications Laser heads and modules, Q-switched laser modules, high-power uncooled pump laser modules, laser solutions for superhard materials processing, high-brightness direct-diode laser engines Laser processing heads and beam delivery systems for laser materials processing with industrial lasers High-speed VCSELs for optical communications High-power pumps for amplifiers and optical communications Precision optical assemblies, objectives, infrared optics, thin-film coatings, and optical materials Optical solutions for critical and complex design, engineering, and production challenges in aerospace and defense New Ventures & Wide-Bandgap Electronics SiC and advanced semiconductor materials for high-frequency and high-power electronic device applications in defense, telecommunications, automotive, and industrial markets Optoelectronic & RF Devices VCSELs for sensing, including 3D sensing in consumer electronics and automotive applications GaAs-based RF electronic devices Integrated circuits for transceivers for optical communications III-V epitaxial wafers to enable higher-performance photonic and RF components for consumer, communications, network, and mobile applications InP Devices Semiconductor lasers and detectors for optical interconnects and sensing applications 12 Our Markets Our market-focused businesses are currently organized by technologies and products. Our businesses address the following primary markets: optical and wireless communications, industrial, aerospace and defense, consumer electronics, semiconductor capital equipment, life sciences, and automotive. As we grow, we may add new primary markets. Communications Market II-VIs optical communications and wireless products and technologies enable next-generation high-speed optical transmission systems, networks, and datacenter solutions necessary to meet the accelerating global bandwidth demand. Demand for our products is largely driven by the continually growing need for additional network bandwidth created by the ongoing proliferation of data and video traffic from video conferencing for work, school, and leisure; video downloads and streaming; live TV; social networking; online gaming; file sharing; enterprise IP/internet traffic; cloud computing; and datacenter virtualization that must be handled by both wireline and wireless networks. This traffic increase reflects the recent shift to the work-from-home and study-from-home approach, which was driven by the COVID-19 pandemic but is expected to continue. Mobile traffic is increasing as a result of the proliferation of smartphones, tablet computers, and other mobile devices. We are a global technology leader in optical communications, providing materials, subcomponents, components, modules, and subsystems to optical component and module manufacturers, networking equipment manufacturers, datacenter operators, and telecom service providers. We design products that meet the increasing demands for network bandwidth and data storage. Our optical communications products can be divided into two main groups, optical transmission and optical transport. Our optical transmission products consist primarily of transmitters, receivers, transceivers, transponders, and active optical cables, which provide the fundamental optical-electrical, or optoelectronic, interface for interconnecting the electronic equipment used in networks. This equipment includes switches, routers, and servers used in wireline networks, as well as antennas and base stations used in wireless networks. These products rely on advanced components such as semiconductor lasers and photodetectors, in conjunction with integrated circuits and novel optoelectronic packaging to provide a cost-effective means for transmitting and receiving digital signals over fiber-optic cable at speeds ranging from less than 1 Gbps to more than 400 Gbps, over distances of less than 10 meters to more than 5,000 kilometers, using a wide range of network protocols and physical configurations. Our optical transport products are at the core of both terrestrial and undersea optical networks. Our market-leading 980 nm pump lasers are the key enablers of our erbium-doped fiber amplifiers, which boost the power of optical signals in fiber-optic cables at intervals spanning 80 km, typically, to allow high-speed signals to be transmitted over longer distances. Our latest generation of components for coherent transceivers is critical to a new generation of small-size, long-reach DWDM transmission modules operating from 100 Gbps to 1 Tbps and beyond. Customers continue to rely on us for our industry-leading optical amplification and embedded monitoring solutions for their next-generation ROADM systems to compensate for inherent signal loss and to monitor signal integrity. Our proprietary OTDR modules allow systems to automatically detect and pinpoint issues along the transmission path in real time. Together with our OCM solutions, which monitor the optical power of the channels transmitted in a fiber-optic link, they enable real-time intelligence to perform preventive maintenance so as to preserve data transmission. In addition, we offer a portfolio of WSS products, which we also incorporate into ROADM line cards and subsystems. Our proven experience in both transmission and transport allows us to effectively address the emerging DCI market. Our transceivers, submodules, pluggable amplifiers, and configurable line cards are able to meet the requirements of low power consumption, compactness, ease of installation and operation, and cost savings, which are often mandatory features in the DCI market. The accelerating adoption of applications such as cloud computing is driving the rapid growth of datacenter buildouts. Our high-speed 25 Gbps VCSELs enable transceivers for intra-datacenter communication. Our miniature WDM thin-film filter assemblies are used to increase the bandwidth within 100 GbE transceivers by combining wavelengths at the transmitter end and separating them out at the receiver end. In the mobile wireless market, II-VI is a global leader in the strategic supply chain for materials and devices utilized in the latest 4G and 5G base station infrastructure. The deployment of 5G wireless is accelerating globally, driving the demand for RF power amplifiers that can operate efficiently in new high-frequency bands and be manufactured on a technology platform that can scale 13 to meet the growing demand. GaN-on-SiC RF power amplifiers have superior performance, compared with devices based on silicon, over a wide spectrum of 5G operating frequencies in the gigahertz range, including in the millimeter-wave bands. We are a market leader in the technology development and large-volume manufacturing of 100 mm and 150 mm semi-insulating SiC substrates. These substrates are utilized by customers worldwide to manufacture GaN-on-SiC HEMT RF power amplifier devices that are embedded in remote radio heads in 4G and 5G wireless base stations. In areas of high bandwidth demand, 5G antennas with beamforming technology utilizing multiple devices per antenna are expected to be densely deployed, increasing the demand for GaN-on-SiC power amplifiers by approximately an order of magnitude or more versus 4G antennas. Looking forward, II-VI continues to advance the state of the art in SiC substrates, with a strong technology portfolio of 30 active patents using highly differentiated and proprietary manufacturing platforms and technologies including crystal growth, substrate fabrication, and polishing. Our recent demonstration of the worlds first prototype 200 mm semi-insulating SiC substrates will enable the RF power amplifier market to continue to scale, increasingly replacing functions performed by devices based on silicon and enabling new applications. Leveraging this materials expertise, II-VI has invested aggressively in a world-class 150 mm compound semiconductor manufacturing platform and is developing a fully vertically integrated, 150 mm wafer fabrication capability to manufacture the state-of-the-art GaN-on-SiC HEMT devices that will enable these next-generation wireless networks. Industrial Market Our laser optics and solutions for the industrial market remain well-positioned, although we were impacted in FY21 by the global industrial slowdown associated with COVID-19. Our vertically integrated and market-leading ZnSe optics and components, due to their inherent low loss at around the 10-micron wavelength, have enabled high-power CO 2 laser systems for many decades and remain critical to the steady stream of new deployments as well as to continued operation, serving as replacement optics for the installed base of CO 2 lasers. II-VI continues to introduce products that address new and growing applications for low-power CO 2 lasers, such as drilling and cutting plastics, textiles, leather, wood, and other organic materials, for which the CO 2 lasers 10-micron wavelength is ideally suited. The 5G market enabled strong growth for our low-power CO 2 drilling machines. CO 2 lasers are also at the core of EUV lithography systems, which enable a new generation of smaller and more powerful integrated circuits. Fiber lasers that operate at about the 1-micron wavelength in pulsed or continuous mode have taken a central role in many industrial applications, especially for metal cutting and welding along with precision machining such as marking and microdrilling. II-VI supplies a broad range of materials, components, and subsystems that enable many functions within these fiber lasers, from the laser chips that generate the input optical power to the beam delivery systems that direct the output optical power to the target. The same set of II-VI products is at the core of existing and emerging direct-diode laser systems. II-VIs broad portfolio of coated optics and crystal materials serves all of these growing laser markets. Aerospace and Defense Market II-VIs aerospace and defense solutions enable mission-critical capabilities for applications in high-energy lasers (HELs); contested space; and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance. From uniquely grown single crystals and advanced ceramics, to completely engineered gimbal subsystems, II-VI solutions are embedded on nearly every platform in the field as well as those under development. Recently acquired coherent laser beam combining and advanced lightweight gimbal technologies, along with domestically produced high-power fiber laser pumps and amplifiers, are enabling next-generation HEL systems and space-based laser communications applications. With the addition of nanomachined single-crystal silicon and grating technologies, together with II-VIs advanced HEL coating capabilities, we enable advanced spectral beam combining and novel microstructured surface capabilities, which are highly valued within the aerospace and defense industry. Our advanced missile warning, electro-optical targeting, and imaging systems are deployed on virtually every U.S. fixed-wing and rotary platform. Our advanced sapphire, germanium, and multispectral domes provide unique protection to our advanced imaging, seeker, and laser solutions that are packaged behind them. The domes provide hemispherical coverage for airborne, naval, and ground-based systems. 14 Our solutions for the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter (LRO) provided the first images proving that the footprints on the moon are still there. The LRO continues to orbit the moon and provide rich information for future lunar landing sites. The LRO camera, and more advanced derivatives, are the basis for many advanced space imaging applications being pursued by our customers. Our solution for the OSIRIS-REx mission enables the first-ever ability for a NASA satellite to touch down on an asteroid (Bennu) and to retrieve a sample and return it to Earth. Our advanced imaging lenses and windows ensure our customers vehicles are able to safely and accurately dock with the Space Station. Our advanced telescope solution for the Geostationary Lightning Mapper enables the GOES satellites to detect early lightning strikes and predict tornados a full 20 minutes before previous technology. It forms the basis for many of our customers advanced multispectral imaging solutions. II-VIs Aerospace & Defense (A&D) Division maintains separate business development, accounting, finance, engineering, and manufacturing facilities in the United States with strictly controlled access; they are dedicated to our U.S. government-supported contracts. Semiconductor Capital Equipment Market Semiconductor capital equipment requires advanced materials to meet the need for tighter tolerances, enhanced thermal stability, faster wafer transfer speeds, and reduced stage settling times. Our metal-matrix composites and reaction-bonded ceramics enable these applications, thanks to their optimum combination of light weight, strength, hardness, and coefficient of thermal expansion. Our reaction-bonded SiC materials are used to manufacture wafer chucks, lightweight scanning stages, and high-temperature, corrosion-resistant wafer support systems. Our cooled SiC mirrors and precision patterned reticles are used in the illumination systems of lithography tools. Our products enable legacy EUV lithography equipment that is widely deployed in semiconductor fabs. In the emerging market of EUV lithography systems, CO 2 lasers are used to generate extreme-ultraviolet light. These CO 2 lasers and beam delivery systems leverage our broad portfolio of CO 2 laser optics, CdTe modulators, and high-power damage-resistant polycrystalline CVD diamond windows to route the powerful laser beam to a tin droplet from which EUV light will emanate. Due to its very high mechanical and thermal performance characteristics, our reaction-bonded SiC is used in structural support systems that are integral to EUV lithography optics to meet critical requirements for optical system stability. Life Sciences Market Within the life sciences end market, II-VI focuses on analytical instrumentation that integrates light and/or thermal management solutions. We segment this market into three application areas (biotechnology, medical laser, and scientific) and deliver targeted and unique product portfolios for each segment. II-VI vertically integrates from the component-level to more complex subassemblies and even full systems. Applications within the biotechnology segment include flow cytometry, genome sequencing, PCR, molecular diagnostics, imaging, and spectroscopy, to name a few. Our broad product portfolio delivers solutions covering illumination, light management, and thermal control. Visible-wavelength QOMO lasers and multicolored laser engines provide low-noise, high-performance, reliable light sources. Optical components and subassemblies such as filters, lenses, flow cells, gratings, objective lenses, and patterned reticles are embedded into these instruments to manage light delivery. Our state-of-the-art thermal engines precisely control temperature and uniformity across large areas such as plate and block assemblies, even extending to reagent or sample chilling. Medical laser and clinical procedures are increasingly performed with systems that integrate our lasers, optics, and thermal solutions. These applications are performed at or near the patient, requiring extreme precision and often complex designs and typically reach into the NIR and IR wavelengths. Applications are varied, from laser-based treatments and surgeries to medical imaging and even point of care. II-VIs semiconductor laser bars and stacks are used in applications such as hair and wrinkle removal. Crystals and laser cavities, along with custom-designed lens assemblies, are used for ophthalmic, dental, and dermatological surgeries. Finally, thermal components and subassemblies deliver solutions for medical-based applications such as delivering heating and cooling to the human body and medical laser temperature control. For the scientific segment, II-VI's solutions are the building blocks of molecular spectroscopy and imaging-based platforms. These tools typically target environmental applications such as water, air, food and beverage, pharmaceutical, and agricultural testing and monitoring. II-VI continues to leverage its core laser, optics, and temperature-control expertise to deliver custom components and subassembly-level solutions at all wavelengths, from UV to NIR and IR. Consumer Electronics Market 15 II-VI manufactures VCSELs, VCSEL arrays, and optical filters for the consumer electronics market. Our VCSEL products leverage our world-class 6-inch GaAs platform, combining our epitaxial wafer growth and wafer fabrication capabilities. Our VCSELs have been used in consumer products such as computer mice and mobile phones for many years. Our VCSELs are also widely deployed in datacenters and HDMI optical cables as well as in vehicle steering wheels. This expertise in VCSEL technology has been leveraged for the growing 3D sensing market. 3D sensing was the first application to drive the demand for relatively large two-dimensional VCSEL arrays. A typical design for 3D sensing requires tens or hundreds of VCSELs per chip in order to scale up the optical power required for, for example, face recognition. Therefore, 3D sensing applications created the need to scale up manufacturing to 6-inch wafer processing. Today, II-VI is one of the very few vertically integrated 6-inch VCSEL manufacturers with a proven track record in high-volume manufacturing of high-reliability, large multi-emitter VCSEL dies designed for 3D sensing. An increasing number of consumer devices are coming on the market with embedded VCSELs, including multiple smartphones and tablets, smart watches, and household robots. Automotive Market II-VI is a global leader in SiC substrates for power electronics that improve the energy efficiency of electric and hybrid-electric vehicles. Power electronics based on SiC enable systems to achieve significantly improved power utilization and conversion efficiencies, lower operating temperatures, and reduced thermal loads. This in turn enables either increased driving range or reductions in required battery capacity for a given range, which results in a significant cost reduction. Our comprehensive understanding of crystal growth and materials processing was acquired over decades of sustained R&D and manufacturing, allowing us to continuously evolve our technology and IP portfolio. We offer a full range of substrate diameters, including the worlds first 200 mm substrate. Our industry-leading semiconductor lasers, optics, and materials are at the core of LiDAR systems embedded in advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS) for autonomous vehicles. LiDAR sensors enable ADAS to perform functions such as emergency braking and adaptive cruise control. II-VI enables LiDAR sensors with a broad portfolio of components and modules, including high-power laser diodes, fiber amplifiers, frequency-modulated continuous wave detection solutions, optical filters for detection, mirrors for scanning, and thermoelectric coolers for temperature control. Our product offerings include edge-emitters and VCSELs that are capable of providing a wide range of peak powers for direct illumination and imaging for short- and long-range LiDAR solutions. Emission and return windows on LiDAR systems are available in ultrahard bulk materials, such as SiC and diamond, and with optical coatings that are water-shedding and oil-resistant. Our thermoelectric coolers are qualified to automotive standards and enable LiDAR systems to operate with optimal performance and efficiency. New generations of vehicles will be equipped with a greater number of sensors that can monitor a drivers alertness and let occupants interact with the console using touch sensing or gesture recognition. In the event of a collision, sensors can help provide critical information about the position and attention of occupants to activate restraints and deploy airbags in the best possible manner. II-VIs products enable the most advanced in-cabin control and monitoring systems for the latest applications in human-vehicle interactions. Our VCSELs are ideal for optical touch sensors integrated in dashboards or steering wheels. Our VCSEL arrays can provide infrared cabin illumination and structured light projection to enable gesture recognition. Automotive manufacturers continue to differentiate their products with comfort features such as temperature-controlled car seats and cup holders, all of which require thermoelectric devices. II-VI offers thermal management solutions that are qualified to stringent automotive industry standards and tailored to various applications. Sales and Marketing We market our products through a direct sales force and through representatives and distributors around the world. Our market strategy is focused on understanding our customers requirements and building market awareness and acceptance of our products. New products are continually being developed and introduced to our new and established customers in all markets. The Company has centralized its worldwide sales and strategic marketing functions. Sales offices have been strategically aligned to best serve and distribute products to our worldwide customer base. There are significant cooperation, coordination, and synergies among our business units, which capitalize on the most efficient and appropriate marketing channels to address diverse applications within our markets. Our sales force develops effective communications with our OEM and end-user customers worldwide. Products are actively marketed through key account relationships, personal selling, select advertising, attendance at trade shows, and customer partnerships. Our sales force includes a highly trained technical sales support team to assist customers in designing, testing, and 16 qualifying our products as key components of our customers systems. As of June 30, 2021, we employed approximately 400 individuals in sales, marketing, and support. We do business with a number of customers in the aerospace and defense industry, who in turn generally contract with a governmental entity, typically a U.S. government agency. Customers The representative groups of customers by segment are as follows: Photonic Solutions Business Unit: Our Customers Are: Representative Customers: ROADM Worldwide network system and subsystem providers of telecommunications, data communications, and CATV Ciena Corporation Fujitsu Network Communications NEC Corporation Nokia Corporation Transceivers Cloud service providers, telecom service providers, enterprises with internal datacom networks, datacom OEMs, telecom OEMs Alibaba Group Cisco Systems Inc. Extreme Networks Inc. H3C Technologies Co. Ltd. Tencent Advanced Optics Global manufacturers of industrial and medical laser optics and crystals including commercial and consumer products used in a wide array of instruments, sensors, fiber lasers, displays, and projection devices Coherent Inc Corning Incorporated. Hans Laser Technology Industry Group Co. Ltd. 17 Compound Semiconductors Business Unit: Our Customers Are: Representative Customers: Engineered Materials & Laser Optics OEM and system integrators of industrial, medical, personal comfort, and aerospace and defense laser systems; laser end users who require replacement optics for their existing laser systems Bystronic Laser AG Coherent Inc. TRUMPF GmbH + Co. KG Manufacturers and developers of integrated-circuit capital equipment for the semiconductor capital equipment industry ASML Holding NV Carl Zeiss AG KLA Corporation Nikon Corporation Primary mineral processors, refiners, and providers of specialized materials used in laser optics, photovoltaics, semiconductors, thermoelectric coolers, metallurgy, and industrial products Aurubis AG Manufacturers of equipment and devices for aerospace, defense, and commercial markets Lockheed Martin Corporation Raytheon Technologies Corporation Laser Devices & Systems Manufacturers of industrial laser components, optical communications equipment, and consumer technology applications; automotive manufacturers Ford Motor Company Hisense Broadband Inc. Laserline GmbH Wuhan Raycus Fiber Laser Technologies Co. Ltd. OEM and subsystem integrators of aiming, machine vision, biomedical instruments, and fiber lasers; laser cutting machines for superhard materials TRUMPF GmbH + Co. KG New Ventures & Wide-Bandgap Electronics Manufacturers and developers of equipment and devices for high-power RF electronics and high-power, voltage-switching, and power-conversion systems for commercial and aerospace and defense applications Infineon Technologies AG IQE PLC Showa Denko KK Sumitomo Electric Device Innovations Inc. Optoelectronic & RF Devices Manufacturers of consumer electronics and transceivers Apple Inc. 18 Competition II-VI is a global leader in many of its product families. We compete, in part, on the basis of our reputation for offering highly engineered products. We also compete by leveraging our intellectual property, ability to scale, product quality, on-time delivery, and technical support. We believe that our vertical integration, manufacturing facilities and equipment, experienced technical and manufacturing employees, and worldwide marketing and distribution channels provide us with competitive advantages. The representative groups of our competitors by segment are as follows: Photonic Solutions Areas of Competition: Competitors: Optical components, modules, and subsystems for optical communications Accelink Technologies Co. Ltd. InLC Technology InnoLight Technology Ltd. Intel Data Platforms Group Lumentum Operations LLC Molex LLC O-Net Communications Ltd. Optical and crystal components, thin-film coatings, and subassemblies for lasers and metrology instruments CASTECH Inc. Casix Inc. IDEX Corporation Optowide Technologies Co. Ltd. Research Electro-Optics Inc. Compound Semiconductors Areas of Competition: Competitors: Infrared laser optics American Photonics Forerun (China) Lambda Research Corporation MKS Instruments Inc. Ophir Corporation Research Electro-Optics Inc. Pleiger Maschinenfabrik GmbH & Co. KG Sigma Koki Co. Ltd. Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. ULO Optics Ltd. Wavelength Opto-Electronic Pte. Ltd. Automated equipment and laser materials processing tools to deliver high-power 1-micron laser systems Empower Mitsubishi Cable Industries Ltd. Optoskand AB Precitec GmbH & Co. Biomedical instruments for flow cytometry, DNA sequencing, and fluorescence microscopy Coherent Inc. Shimadzu Corporation Pavilion Integration Corporation Semiconductor laser diodes for the industrial and consumer markets ams AG Broadcom Inc. Everbright LLC Hamamatsu Photonics KK Jenoptik AG Lumentum Operations LLC nLight Inc. Optowell Co. Ltd. OSRAM Licht AG Panasonic Corporation Wuhan Raycus Fiber Laser Technologies Co. Ltd. ROHM Co. Ltd. Sony Corporation TRUMPF GmbH + Co. KG Infrared optics for aerospace and defense applications In-house fabrication and thin-film coating capabilities of major aerospace and defense customers Thermoelectric components, subassemblies, and systems Ferrotec Corporation Laird Thermal Systems Komatsu Ltd. Metal-matrix composites and reaction-bonded ceramic products Berliner Glas GmbH CoorsTek Inc. Japan Fine Ceramics Co. Ltd. Kyocera Corporation Morgan Advanced Materials PLC Schunk GmbH Single-crystal SiC substrates Cree Inc. Dow Inc. ROHM Co. Ltd. SICC Co. Ltd. TankeBlue Semiconductor Co. Ltd. Refining and materials recovery services for high-purity rare metals 5N Plus Inc. RETORTE GmbH Vital Materials Co. Ltd. 19 In addition to competitors who manufacture products similar to those we produce, there are other technologies and products available that may compete with our technologies and products. Our Strategy Our strategy is to grow businesses with world-class engineered materials capabilities to advance our current customers strategies, reach new markets through innovative technologies and platforms, and enable new applications in large and growing markets. A key strategy of ours is to develop and manufacture high-performance materials and, in certain cases, components incorporating those materials, that are differentiated from those produced by our competitors. We focus on providing components that are critical to the heart of our customers products that serve the applications mentioned above. We continue to grow the number and size of our key accounts. A significant portion of our business is based on sales orders with market leaders, which enables our forward planning and production efficiencies. We intend to continue capitalizing and executing on this proven model, participating effectively in the growth of the markets discussed above, and continuing our focus on operational excellence as we execute our primary business strategies: Key Business Strategies: Our Plan to Execute: Identify New Products and Markets Identify new technologies, products, and markets to meet evolving customer requirements for high-performance engineered materials through our dedicated RD&E programs, and thereby increase new product revenue and maximize return on investment Balanced Approach to Research and Development RD&E both internally and externally funded, targeting an overall investment of 8%-12% of revenues Leverage Vertical Integration Combine RD&E and manufacturing expertise, operating with a bias toward components and production machines; reduce cost and lead time to enhance competitiveness, time to market, profitability, and quality; and enable our customers to offer competitive products Investment in Scalable Manufacturing Strategically invest in, evaluate, and identify opportunities to consolidate and automate manufacturing operations worldwide to increase production capacity, capabilities, and cost-effectiveness Enhance Our Performance and Reputation as a Quality and Customer Service Leader Continue to improve upon our established reputation as a consistent, high-quality supplier of engineered materials and optoelectrical components that are built into our customers products Execute our global quality transformation process, eliminating costs of nonconforming materials and processes Identify and Complete Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances Identify acquisition opportunities that accelerate our access to emerging, high-growth segments of the markets we serve and further leverage our competencies and economies of scale Research, Development, and Engineering During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, the Company continued to identify, invest in, and focus our research and development on new products and platform technologies in an effort to accelerate our organic growth. This approach is managed under a disciplined innovation program that we refer to as the II-VI Phase Gate Process. We devote significant resources to RD&E programs directed at the continuous improvement of our existing products and processes, and to the timely development of new materials, technologies, platforms, and products. We believe that our RD&E activities are essential to establishing and maintaining a leadership position in each of the markets we serve. In addition, certain manufacturing personnel support or participate in our research and development efforts on an ongoing basis. We believe the close interaction between the development and manufacturing functions enhances the direction of our projects, reducing costs and accelerating technology transfers. It also offers development opportunities to our employees. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, we focused our RD&E investments in the following areas: 20 Photonic Solutions Area of Development: Our RD&E Investments: Photonics design Continue to develop and improve crystal materials, precision optical parts, and laser device components for photonics applications Datacom transceivers Continue cost reduction on 10G-100G products by leveraging our engineering resources and manufacturing scale; continue to develop high-end 200G/400G/800G products, including RF and packaging designs; explore high-density, high-bandwidth co-packaged designs through silicon photonics; continue to develop vertically integrated designs, including with lasers and ICs Coherent optics Drive further integration to reduce size and power consumption; optimize product cost with new design architectures and more efficient manufacturing flow Pump lasers Continue to invest in our next-generation GaAs pump laser portfolio and flexible manufacturing footprint to address evolving terrestrial and undersea markets Develop InP growth and processing capability together with associated packaging technology Optical amplifiers and subsystems Invest in and broaden the range of amplifiers and integrated subsystems, including ROADMs WSS Develop LC and LCOS technologies and associated module designs for WSS; invest in manufacturing equipment, including the WSS automated assembly platform Optical monitoring Continue optical channel monitoring investment Develop OTDRs to monitor the health of the fiber plant Micro-optics manufacturing Shift toward smaller, more compact optics and automated assembly platforms and packages Invest in manufacturing equipment for computerized processes Compound Semiconductors Area of Development: Our RD&E Investments: High-power laser diodes Semiconductor lasers Devices for optical communications and sensing, and high-volume manufacturing Increase fiber-coupled optical output power of multi-emitter modules Develop high-power VCSELs, including multi-junction VCSELs for 3D sensing and consumer devices as well as next-generation, high-speed VCSELs for datacom applications Develop high-power and high-speed InP lasers, detectors, and components for applications in optical communications High-power beam delivery Develop multi-kW beam delivery systems and cables for welding and cutting CVD diamond technology Develop CVD diamond for EUV applications and as substrates for high-performance RF devices Broaden our portfolio beyond infrared window applications SiC technology Develop advanced SiC substrate growth technologies to support emerging markets in GaN RF and SiC power electronics Continuous improvement to maintain world-class, high-quality, large-diameter substrates and epitaxial wafers Thermoelectric materials and devices Continue to develop leading Bi 2 Te 3 materials for thermoelectric cooling/heating Focus on thermoelectric power-generation capability in order to introduce new products Metal-matrix composites and reaction-bonded ceramics Support industrial customers in developing application-specific material wear out and thermal-management solutions 21 Fiber laser technologies Develop high-power fiber laser technologies for aerospace, defense, and commercial applications High-speed ICs High-performance analog TIAs, laser drivers, and clock and data-recovery retimer (CDR) ICs Other R&D Area of Development: Our RD&E Investments: Digital Signal Processors (DSPs) Develop high-speed DSPs for coherent optical communications Optoelectronic chip hybrid integration platform Develop wafer-scale assembly technologies and processes for integration of lasers, optics, and ICs Silicon photonics devices Develop silicon-based photonic ICs for coherent and direct-detection transceivers and co-packaging solutions Battery technology Develop technology for lithium-ion batteries Laser additive manufacturing Develop alloys and multibeam delivery systems for laser additive manufacturing Internally funded research and development expenditures were $330 million, $339 million, and $139 million for the fiscal years 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Import and Export Compliance We are required to comply with various import/export and economic sanctions laws and regulations, including: The import regulations administered by U.S. Customs and Border Protection; The International Traffic in Arms Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, which among other things impose licensing requirements on the export from the United States of certain defense articles and defense services, generally including items that are specially designed or adapted for a military application and/or listed on the United States Munitions List; The Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which among other things impose licensing requirements on certain dual-use goods, technology, and software; and The regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control, implementing economic sanctions against designated countries, governments, and persons based on U.S. foreign policy and national security considerations. Foreign governments also have similar import and export control, and sanctions, laws and regulations. For additional discussion regarding our import, export and sanctions compliance, see the discussion in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Trade Secrets, Patents, and Trademarks Our use of trade secrets, proprietary know-how, trademarks, copyrights, patents, contractual confidentiality, and IP ownership provisions helps us develop and maintain our competitive position with respect to our products and manufacturing processes. We aggressively pursue process and product patents in certain areas of our businesses and in certain jurisdictions across the globe. We have entered into selective intellectual property licensing agreements. We have confidentiality and noncompetition agreements with certain personnel. We require our U.S. employees to sign a confidentiality and noncompetition agreement upon commencement of their employment with us. We have a total of approximately 2,205 patents globally. Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of the Company and their respective ages and positions as of June 30, 2021, are set forth below. Each executive officer listed has been appointed by the board of directors to serve until removed or until a successor is appointed and qualified. 22 Name Age Position Vincent D. Mattera, Jr. 65 Chief Executive Officer; Director Walter R. Bashaw II 56 President Mary Jane Raymond 61 Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Giovanni Barbarossa 59 Chief Strategy Officer and President, Compound Semiconductors Jo Anne Schwendinger 65 Chief Legal Officer and Compliance Officer and Secretary Christopher Koeppen 50 Chief Technology Officer Vincent D. Mattera, Jr. Dr. Mattera initially served as a member of the II-VI board of directors from 2000 to 2002. Dr. Mattera joined the Company as a Vice President in 2004 and served as Executive Vice President from January 2010 to November 2013, when he became the Chief Operating Officer. In November 2014, Dr. Mattera became the President and Chief Operating Officer and was reappointed to the board of directors. In November 2015, he became the President of II-VI. In September 2016, Dr. Mattera became the Companys third President and Chief Executive Officer in 45 years and served as the Company's President through June 2019, when the roles of President and Chief Executive Officer were separated. Dr. Mattera will become the Companys Board Chair immediately following the Companys 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. During his career at II-VI, he has assumed successively broader management roles, including as a lead architect of the Companys diversification strategy. He has provided vision, energy, and dispatch to the Companys growth initiatives, including overseeing the acquisition-related integration activities in the United States, Europe, and Asiaespecially in Chinathereby establishing additional platforms. These have contributed to a new positioning of the Company into large and transformative global growth markets while increasing considerably the global reach of the Company, deepening the technology and IP portfolio, broadening the product roadmap and customer base, and increasing the potential of II-VI. Prior to joining II-VI as an executive, Dr. Mattera had a continuous 20-year career in the Optoelectronic Device Division of AT&T Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, and Agere Systems, during which he led the development and manufacturing of semiconductor laser-based materials and devices for optical and data communications networks. Dr. Mattera has 34 years of leadership experience in the compound semiconductor materials, device technology, operations, and markets that are core to II-VIs business and strategy. Dr. Mattera holds a B.S. degree in chemistry from the University of Rhode Island (1979) and a Ph.D. in chemistry from Brown University (1984). He completed the Stanford University Executive Program (1996). Walter R. Bashaw II has served as the Companys President since July 2019. Mr. Bashaw served as the Company's Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Development, Administration from October 2018 to July 2019. Previously, Mr. Bashaw served as the Company's Interim General Counsel and Secretary from December 2015 until March 2017. Mr. Bashaw also previously was a Managing Shareholder and a Director of the law firm of Sherrard, German & Kelly, P.C. (SGK) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, until October 2018 and Of Counsel at SGK from October 2018 until June 2019. Mr. Bashaw graduated from the Pennsylvania State University with a B.S. degree in Logistics and also holds a J.D. degree from the University of Pittsburgh School of Law. Mary Jane Raymond has been Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company since March 2014. Previously, Ms. Raymond was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Hudson Global Inc. from 2005 to 2013. Ms. Raymond was the Chief Risk Officer and Vice President and Corporate Controller at Dun and Bradstreet Inc. from 2002 to 2005. Additionally, she was the Vice President, Merger Integration, at Lucent Technologies from 1997 to 2002 and held several management positions at Cummins Engine Company from 1988 to 1997. In 2019 Ms. Raymond was named to the Board of Directors and Audit Committee of Veeco, Inc. Ms. Raymond holds a B.A. degree in Public Management from St. Josephs University, and an MBA from Stanford University. Giovanni Barbarossa joined II-VI in October 2012 and has been the Chief Strategy Officer of the Company and the President of the Compound Semiconductors Segment since July 2019. Previously, he was the Chief Technology Officer of the Company and the President of the Laser Solutions Segment. Dr. Barbarossa was employed at Avanex Corporation from 2000 through 2009, serving in various executive positions in product development and general management, ultimately serving as President and Chief Executive Officer. When Avanex merged with Bookham Technology, forming Oclaro, Dr. Barbarossa became a member of the board of directors of Oclaro and served as such from 2009 to 2012. Previously, he held senior management roles in the Optical Networking Division of Agilent Technologies and in the Network Products Group of Lucent Technologies. He was previously a Member of Technical Staff, then Technical Manager at AT&T Bell Labs, and a Research Associate at British Telecom Labs. Dr. Barbarossa graduated from the University of Bari, Italy, with a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering, and holds a Ph.D. in Photonics from the University of Glasgow, U.K. 23 Jo Anne Schwendinger has served as the Companys Chief Legal and Compliance Officer and Secretary since November 2017. Ms. Schwendinger also served as the Companys General Counsel and Secretary from when she joined the Company in March 2017 until November 2017. Prior to her employment with the Company, Ms. Schwendinger practiced law with the firm Blank Rome LLP from August 2016 until February 2017. Previously, Ms. Schwendinger served in various legal roles at Deere & Company from 2000 until August 2016, including Regional General CounselAsia-Pacific and Sub-Saharan Africa. Ms. Schwendinger holds a bachelors degree from the Universit dAvignon et des Pays de Vaucluse, a masters degree from the Universit de Strasbourg, and a J.D. degree from the University of Pittsburgh Law School. Christopher Koeppen joined the Company in 2011 following the acquisition of Aegis Lightwave, Inc., where he served as General Manager, Aegis-NJ. He was named General Manager of II-VIs Agile Network Products Division in 2012 and Director of Corporate Strategic Technology Planning in 2015. He then served as Vice President of the Industrial Laser Group and Corporate Strategic Technology Planning from 2017, until his appointment as Chief Technology Officer in 2019. Previously, Dr. Koeppen was co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of CardinalPoint Optics, prior to its acquisition by Aegis Lightwave. He has more than two decades of progressively increasing general and technology management experience in high-tech companies, including at Meriton Networks, Mahi Networks, Photuris, and Lucent Technologies. Dr. Koeppen holds a Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Pennsylvania, where he was an AT&T Bell Laboratories Scholar, and B.S. degrees in Physics and Mathematics from the Pennsylvania State University. Availability of Information Our internet address is www.ii-vi.com. Information contained on our website is not part of, and should not be construed as being incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We post the following reports on our website as soon as reasonably practical after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports or statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. In addition, we post our proxy statements on Schedule 14A related to our annual shareholders meetings as well as reports filed by our directors, officers, and 10% beneficial owners pursuant to Section 16 of the Exchange Act. In addition, all filings are available via the SECs website (www.sec.gov). We also make our corporate governance documents available on our website, including the Companys Code of Ethical Business Conduct, Governance Guidelines, and the charters for our board committees. All such documents are located on the Investors page of our website and are available free of charge. 24 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows. These risk factors should be considered along with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The following discussion is not an all-inclusive listing of risks, although we believe these are the material risks that we face. If any of the following occur, our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows could be adversely affected. You should carefully consider these factors, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, when evaluating an investment in our securities. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry Investments in future markets of potential significant growth may not result in the expected return. We continue to make investments in programs with the goal of gaining a greater share of end markets using semiconductor lasers and other components, including those used for 3D sensing and emerging 5G technology. We cannot guarantee that our investments in capital and capabilities will be sufficient. The potential end markets, as well as our ability to gain market share in such markets, may not materialize on the timeline anticipated or at all. We cannot be sure of the end market price, specification, or yield for products incorporating our technologies. Our technologies could fail to fulfill, partially or completely, our target customers specifications. We cannot guarantee the end market customers acceptance of our technologies. Further, we may be unable to fulfill the terms of our contracts with our target customers, which could result in penalties of a material nature, including damages, loss of market share, and loss of reputation. Our competitive position depends on our ability to develop new products and processes. To meet our strategic objectives, we must develop, manufacture, and market new products and continue to update our existing products and processes to keep pace with market developments to address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. Our success in developing and selling new and enhanced products and processes depends upon a variety of factors, including strategic product selection, efficient completion of product design and development, timely implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, effective sales and marketing, and high-quality and successful product performance in the market. The introduction by our competitors of products or processes using new developments that are better or faster than ours could render our products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. We intend to continue to make significant investments in research, development, and engineering to achieve our goals. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to our existing products and processes in a manner which satisfies customer needs or achieves market acceptance. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business and maintain our competitive position and on our results of operations and/or financial condition. A widespread health crises could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The outbreak of a widespread health crisis, whether global in scope or localized in an area in which we, our customers or our suppliers do business, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the operations of our suppliers and customers. Potential impacts on our operations include: significant reductions in demand for one or more of our products or a curtailment to one or more of our product lines caused by, among other things, any temporary inability of our customers to purchase and utilize our products in next-stage manufacturing due to shutdown orders or financial hardship; workforce constraints triggered by any applicable shutdown orders or stay-at-home polices; disruptions to our third-party manufacturing and raw materials supply arrangements caused by constraints over our suppliers workforce capacity, financial, or operational difficulties; heightened risk and uncertainty regarding the loss or disruption of essential third-party service providers, including transportation services, contract manufacturing, marketing, and distribution services; requirements to comply with governmental and regulatory responses such as quarantines, import/export restrictions, price controls, or other governmental or regulatory actions, including closures or other restrictions that limit or close our operating and manufacturing facilities, restrict our workforces ability to travel or perform necessary business functions, or otherwise impact our suppliers or customers, which could adversely impact our operating results; and increased operating expenses and potentially reduced efficiency of operations. In the early stages of the outbreak of the global novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in 2020, we closely monitored the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on all aspects of our business, including the impact to our suppliers, customers, and employees, as well as 25 the impact to the countries and markets in which we operate. We began focusing intensely on mitigating the adverse impacts of COVID-19 on our foreign and domestic operations, starting by protecting our employees, suppliers, and customers. While we believe that we have been successful in identifying, managing, and mitigating the economic disruption impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on us, we cannot provide any assurance that we similarly will be able to mitigate the impacts of any future widespread health crises, including as a result of any variants of COVID-19. Factors beyond our current knowledge or control, including the duration and severity of any outbreak, as well as any resulting governmental and regulatory actions, could cause any such crisis to have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Global economic downturns may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Current and future conditions in the global economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction of the global economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors, and regions of the economy, including the industrial, aerospace and defense, optical communications, telecommunications, semiconductor, consumer, and medical and life science markets in which we participate. All aspects of our forecasts depend on estimates of growth or contraction in the markets we serve. Thus, prevailing global economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. Global economic downturns may affect industries in which our customers operate. These changes could include decreases in the rate of consumption or use of our customers products. Such conditions could have a material adverse effect on demand for our customers products and, in turn, on demand for our products. Adverse changes may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, decline in stock markets, contraction of credit availability, or other factors affecting economic conditions. For example, factors that may affect our operating results include disruption in the credit and financial markets in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere, adverse effects of slowdowns in the U.S., European, or Chinese economies, reductions or limited growth in consumer spending or consumer credit, global trade tariffs, and other adverse economic conditions that may be specific to the Internet, e-commerce, and payments industries. These changes may negatively affect sales of products and increase exposure to losses from bad debt and commodity prices, the cost and availability of financing, and costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. Any economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Some systems that use our products are complex in design, and our products may contain defects that are not detected until deployed, which could increase our costs, reduce our revenues, cause us to lose key customers, or expose us to litigation related to our products. Some systems that use our products are inherently complex in design and require ongoing maintenance. Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors which may contain defects. Should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to correct defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things, loss of customers, increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses, damage to our brand reputation, failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance, diversion of development and engineering resources, or legal action by our customers. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Foreign currency risk may negatively affect our revenues, cost of sales, and operating margins, and could result in foreign exchange losses. We conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. We incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it operates, or holds assets or liabilities in a currency different from its functional currency. Changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations when the value of sales and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. Further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers or increase the manufacturing cost of our products, either of which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows, and profitability. Our competitive position may still require significant investments. We continuously monitor the marketplace for strategic opportunities, and our business strategy includes expanding our product lines and markets through both internal product development and acquisitions. Consequently, we expect to continue to consider 26 strategic acquisition of businesses, products, or technologies complementary to our business. This may require significant investments of management time and financial resources. If market demand is outside our organic capabilities, if a strategic acquisition is required and we cannot identify one or execute on it, and/or if financial investments that we undertake distract management, do not result in the expected return on investment, expose us to unforeseen liabilities, or jeopardize our ability to comply with our credit facility covenants due to any inability to integrate the business, adjust to operating a larger and more complex organization, adapt to additional political and other requirements associated with the acquired business, retain staff, or work with customers, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We may be unable to successfully implement our acquisitions strategy or integrate acquired companies and personnel with existing operations. We have in the past acquired several companies, including the completion of our acquisition of Finisar Corporation (Finisar) in 2019. We may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions, such as our pending acquisition of Coherent, Inc. (Coherent). We may be unable to identify or complete prospective acquisitions for many reasons, including increasing competition from other potential acquirers, the effects of consolidation in our industries, and potentially high valuations of acquisition candidates. In addition, applicable antitrust laws and other regulations may limit our ability to acquire targets or force us to divest an acquired business line. If we are unable to identify suitable targets or complete acquisitions, our growth prospects may suffer, and we may not be able to realize sufficient scale and technological advantages to compete effectively in all markets. To the extent that we complete acquisitions, we may be unsuccessful in integrating acquired companies or product lines with existing operations, or the integration may be more difficult or more costly than anticipated. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize anticipated benefits from acquired companies, businesses, or assets include those associated with: unexpected losses of key employees of the acquired company; conforming the acquired companys standards, processes, procedures, and controls with our operations, including integrating enterprise resource planning systems and other key business applications; coordinating new product and process development; increasing complexity from combining operations; increasing the scope, geographic diversity, and complexity of our operations; difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how; and diversion of managements attention from other business concerns. In connection with acquisitions, we may: use a signification portion of our available cash; issue equity securities, which would dilute current shareholders percentage ownership; incur significant debt; incur or assume contingent liabilities, known or unknown, including potential lawsuits, infringement actions, or similar liabilities; incur impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangibles; and face antitrust or other regulatory inquiries or actions. In addition, the market prices of our outstanding securities could be adversely affected if the effect of any acquisitions on our consolidated financial results is dilutive or is below the markets or financial analysts expectations, or if there are unanticipated changes in the business or financial performance of the acquired or combined company. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses may disrupt our business and adversely impact our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Although we expect that our acquisitions will result in cost savings, synergies, and other benefits, we may not realize those benefits, or be able to retain those benefits even if realized. The success of our acquisitions will depend in large part on our success in integrating the acquired operations, strategies, technologies, and personnel. We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition if the integration process takes longer than expected or is more costly than expected. If we fail to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating any acquired operations or to otherwise realize any of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including any expected cost savings and synergies, our operations could be impaired. In addition, the overall integration of an acquired business can be a time-consuming and expensive process that, without proper planning and effective and timely implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. Potential difficulties that we may encounter in the integration process include: 27 the integration of management teams, strategies, technologies and operations, products, and services; the disruption of ongoing businesses and distraction of their respective management teams from ongoing business concerns; the retention of, and possible decrease in business from, existing customers the creation of uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems; the reduction of the costs associated with combined operations; the integration of corporate cultures and maintenance of employee morale; the retention of key employees; and potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business. The anticipated cost savings, synergies, and other benefits of any acquisition typically assume a successful integration of the acquired business and are based on projections and other assumptions, which are inherently uncertain. Even if integration is successful, anticipated cost savings, synergies, and other benefits may not be achieved. Our future success depends on continued international sales, and our global operations are complex and present multiple challenges to manage. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. The failure to maintain our current volume of international sales could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows. We manufacture products in Australia, China, Germany, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Vietnam, and through a contract manufacturer in Thailand. We also maintain direct sales offices in Belgium, Canada, China, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Switzerland, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom. Our operations vary by location and are influenced on a location-by-location basis by local customs, languages, and work practices, as well as different local weather conditions, management styles, and education systems. In addition, multiple complex issues may arise concurrently in different countries, potentially hampering our ability to respond in an effective and timely manner. Any inability to respond in an effective and timely manner to issues in our global operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We are subject to complex and rapidly changing import and export regulations which could limit our sales and decrease our profitability. We are subject to the passage of and changes in the interpretation of regulation by U.S. government entities at the federal, state, and local levels and by non-U.S. agencies, including, but not limited to, the following: We are required to comply with import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our ability to enter into or complete transactions with certain customers, business partners, and other persons. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services, and technologies. We may be required to obtain an export license before exporting a controlled item, and granting of a required license cannot be assured. Compliance with the import laws that apply to our businesses may restrict our access to, and may increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and could interrupt our supply of imported inventory. Exported technologies necessary to develop and manufacture certain products are subject to U.S. export control laws and similar laws of other jurisdictions. We may be subject to adverse regulatory consequences, including government oversight of facilities and export transactions, monetary penalties, and other sanctions for violations of these laws. In certain instances, these regulations may prohibit us from developing or manufacturing certain of our products for specific applications outside the United States. Failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary, and nonmonetary penalties; disruptions to our business; limitations on our ability to import and export products and services; and damage to our reputation. Changes in trade policies, such as increased import duties, could increase the costs of goods imported into the United States or China. In March 2018, President Trump announced new steel and aluminum tariffs. Then, in July 2018, the United States imposed increased tariffs on products of Chinese origin, and China responded by increasing tariffs on U.S.-origin goods. On the export side, denial orders and placing companies on the U.S. entity list could decrease our access to customers and markets and materially impact our revenues in the aggregate. In April 2018, for example, the U.S. Department of Commerce issued a denial 28 order against two companies in the telecommunications market. In 2019 and 2020, the U.S. Department of Commerce placed a number of entities, including Huawei, on the U.S. Entity List. If we cannot obtain relief from, or take other action to mitigate the impact of, these additional duties and restrictions and duties, our business and profits may be materially and adversely affected. Further changes in the trade policy of the United States or of other countries in which we do cross-border business, or additional sanctions, could result in retaliatory actions by other countries that could materially and negatively impact the volume of economic activity in the United States or globally, which, in turn, may decrease our access to customers and markets, reduce our revenues, and increase our operating costs. Our association with customers that are or become subject to U.S. regulatory scrutiny or export restrictions could negatively impact our business and create instability in our operations. Governmental actions such as these could subject us to actual or perceived reputational harm among current or prospective investors, suppliers or customers, customers of our customers, other parties doing business with us, or the general public. Any such reputational harm could result in the loss of investors, suppliers, or customers, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, or prospects. Exports of certain of our products are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. government and administered by the U.S. Departments of State and Commerce. In certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department. For products subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), administered by the Department of Commerces Bureau of Industry and Security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user, and whether a license exception might apply. Virtually all exports of products subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), administered by the Department of States Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, require a license. Certain of our products are subject to EAR controls. Additionally, certain other products that we sell, including certain products developed with government funding, are subject to ITAR. Products developed and manufactured in our foreign locations are subject to export controls of the applicable foreign nation. Given the current global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. Failure to obtain export licenses for these shipments, or having one or more of our customers be restricted from receiving exports from us, could significantly reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Compliance with regulations of the United States and other governments also subjects us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. Any inability to access financial markets from time to time to raise required capital, finance our working capital requirements or our acquisition strategies, or otherwise support our liquidity needs could negatively impact our ability to finance our operations, meet certain obligations, or implement our growth strategy. We from time to time borrow under our existing credit facility or use proceeds from sales of our securities to fund portions of our operations, including working capital investments and financing of our acquisition strategies. In the past, market disruptions experienced in the United States and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. Uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. These disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and changes in general economic conditions in the areas where we do business. If we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations, and implement our operating strategies could be adversely affected. In the future, we may be required to raise additional capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business and prospects. Additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our outstanding capital stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to undertake certain activities that we otherwise would find to be desirable. Further, debt service obligations associated with any debt financing could reduce our profitability. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. We may not be able to settle conversions of our convertible senior notes in cash or repurchase the notes in accordance with their terms. Holders of our outstanding 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 (the 2022 Notes) and the 0.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2036 issued by Finisar (the 2036 Notes) have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the respective indentures governing such notes) at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the convertible notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Holders of the 2036 Notes also have the right to require Finisar to repurchase all or a portion of their 2036 Notes for cash on certain specified dates at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2036 Notes to be 29 repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The next such repurchase date for the 2036 Notes is December 15, 2021. In addition, upon conversion of such convertible notes, we will be required to make cash payments in respect of such convertible notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of surrendered convertible notes or pay cash with respect to convertible notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase or to pay cash upon conversion of our convertible notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority, or agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase convertible notes at a time when the repurchase is required or to pay any cash upon conversion of the convertible notes as required would constitute a default under the applicable indenture. A default under the applicable indenture or the fundamental change itself also could lead to a default under agreements governing our existing credit facility or any of our other current or future indebtedness. If the payment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the convertible notes or to pay cash upon conversion of any such convertible notes. Our current credit agreement restricts our operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions regarding our business. Our amended and restated credit agreement, dated as of September 24, 2019, by and among us, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and the other lenders party thereto (the Credit Agreement) contains a number of restrictive covenants that may impose operating and financial restrictions on us and limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, undergo certain fundamental changes, dispose of assets, make certain investments, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, and make certain restricted payments, in each case subject to limitations and exceptions set forth in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement also contains customary events of default that include, among other things, certain payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other indebtedness, change of control defaults, judgment defaults, and bankruptcy and insolvency defaults. Such events of default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, and financial results. Furthermore, if we are unable to repay the amounts due and payable under the Credit Agreement, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. In the event that our lenders accelerated the repayment of the borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Any acceleration of amounts due under the Credit Agreement would likely have a material adverse effect on us. As a result of these restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct business, unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns, or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. We may fail to accurately estimate the size and growth of our markets and our customers demands. We make significant decisions based on our estimates of customer requirements. We use our estimates to determine the levels of business we seek and accept, production schedules, personnel needs, and other resource requirements. Customers may require rapid increases in production on short notice. We may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or allocate sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet such increases in demand. Rapid customer ramp-up and significant increases in demand may strain our resources or negatively affect our margins. Inability to satisfy customer demand in a timely manner may harm our reputation, reduce our other opportunities, damage our relationships with customers, reduce revenue growth, and/or cause us to incur contractual penalties. Alternatively, downturns in the industries in which we compete may cause our customers to significantly reduce their demand. With respect to orders we initiate with our suppliers to address anticipated demand from our customers, certain suppliers may have required noncancellable purchase commitments or advance payments from us, and those obligations and commitments could reduce our ability to adjust our inventory or expense levels to reflect declining market demands. Unexpected declines in customer demands can result in excess or obsolete inventory and additional charges. Because certain of our sales, research and development, and internal manufacturing overhead expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand likely would decrease our gross margins and operating income. We may encounter increased competition, and we may fail to accurately estimate our competitors or our customers willingness and capability to backward integrate into our competencies and thereby displace us. We may encounter substantial competition from other companies in the same market, including established companies with significant resources. Some of our competitors may have financial, technical, marketing, or other capabilities that are more extensive than ours. They may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and other competitive pressures. We may not be able to compete successfully against our present or future competitors. Our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 30 There are limitations on the protection of our intellectual property, and we may from time to time be involved in costly intellectual property litigation or indemnification. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright, and trademark laws, combined with employee confidentiality, noncompetition, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or intellectual property. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. Asserting our intellectual property rights or defending against third-party claims could involve substantial expense. In the event that a third party were successful in a claim that one of our processes infringed its proprietary rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or royalties, or spend substantial amounts in order to obtain a license or modify processes so that they no longer infringe such proprietary rights. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. The design, processes, and specialized equipment utilized in our engineered materials, advanced components, and subsystems are innovative, complex, and difficult to duplicate. However, there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology, or that all aspects of our proprietary technology will be protected. Others have obtained patents covering a variety of materials, devices, equipment, configurations, and processes, and others could obtain patents covering technology similar to ours. We may be required to obtain licenses under such patents, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such licenses, if required, on commercially reasonable terms, or that claims regarding rights to technology will not be asserted that may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our research and development contracts with agencies of the U.S. government present a risk that project-specific technology could be disclosed to competitors as contract reporting requirements are fulfilled. We also enter into development projects from time to time that might result in intellectual property developed during a project that is assigned to the other party without us retaining rights to that intellectual property or is jointly owned with the other party. A significant portion of our business is dependent on cyclical industries. Our business is dependent on the demand for products produced by end-users of industrial lasers, optical communication products, components for semiconductor capital equipment, and components for 3D sensing. Many of these end-users are in industries that have historically experienced a highly cyclical demand for their products. As a result, demand for our products is subject to these cyclical fluctuations. Fluctuations in demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our global operations are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements. We manufacture products in Australia, China, Germany, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Vietnam, and through a contract manufacturer in Thailand. We also maintain direct sales offices in Belgium, Canada, China, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Switzerland, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom. Operations inside and outside of the United States are subject to many legal and regulatory requirements, some of which are not aligned with others. These include tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers, restrictions on the export or import of technology, potentially limited intellectual property protection, import and export requirements and restrictions, anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, foreign investment rules and regulations, data privacy requirements, competition laws, employment and labor laws, pensions and social insurance, and environmental health and safety laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be onerous and expensive, and requirements differ among jurisdictions. New laws, changes in existing laws, and abrogation of local regulations by national laws may result in significant uncertainties in how they will be interpreted and enforced. Failure to comply with any of these foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Changes in laws and regulations governing data privacy and data protection could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are subject to many data privacy, data protection, and data breach notification laws, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which became effective in 2018. While we have taken measures to assess the requirements of, and to comply with, the GDPR, as well as new and existing data-related laws and regulations of other jurisdictions, these measures may be challenged, including by authorities that regulate data-related compliance. We could incur significant expense in facilitating and responding to investigations, and if the measures we have taken prove to be inadequate, we could face fines, penalties, or damages, and incur reputational harm, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. 31 Data breach incidents and breakdowns of information and communication technologies could disrupt our operations and impact our financial results. In the course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property (both our own and that of our customers), as well as proprietary business information. We could be subject to service outages or breaches of security systems which may result in disruption, unauthorized access, misappropriation, or corruption of this information. Security breaches of our network or data, including physical or electronic break-ins, vendor service outages, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or similar breaches can create system disruptions, shutdowns, and unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent or contain such security or privacy breaches, our operations could be disrupted or we could suffer legal claims, loss of reputation, financial loss, property damage, or regulatory penalties. We have entered into supply agreements that commit us to supply products on specified terms. We have supply agreements with some customers that require us to supply products and allocate sufficient capacity to make these products. We have also agreed to pricing schedules and methodologies that could result in penalties if we fail to meet development, supply, capacity, and quality commitments. Failure to do so may cause us to be unable to generate the amount of revenue or the level of profitability we expect from these arrangements. Our ability to realize a profit under some of these agreements will be subject to the level of customer demand, the cost of maintaining facilities and manufacturing capacity, and supply chain capability. If we fail to fulfill our commitments under these supply agreements, our business, after using all remedies available, financial conditions, and results of operations may suffer a material adverse effect. We depend on highly complex manufacturing processes that require feeder materials, components, and products from limited sources of supply. Our operations are dependent upon a supply chain of difficult-to-make or difficult-to-refine products and materials. Some of our product inflow is subject to yield reductions from growth or fabrication losses, and thus the quantities we may receive are not consistently predictable. Customers may also change a specification for a product that our suppliers cannot meet. We also make products of which we are one of the worlds largest suppliers. We use high-quality, optical-grade ZnSe in the production of many of our IR optical products. We are a leading producer of ZnSe for our internal use and for external sale. The production of ZnSe is a complex process requiring a highly controlled environment. A number of factors, including defective or contaminated materials, could adversely affect our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields of high-quality ZnSe. Lack of adequate availability of high-quality ZnSe could have a material adverse effect upon our business. There can be no assurance that we will not experience manufacturing yield inefficiencies that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We produce hydrogen selenide gas, which is used in our production of ZnSe. There are risks inherent in the production and handling of such material. Our lack of proper handling of hydrogen selenide could require us to curtail our production of the gas. Our potential inability to internally produce hydrogen selenide could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. In addition, we produce and use other high-purity and relatively uncommon materials and compounds to manufacture our products, including, but not limited to, ZnS, GaAs, yttrium aluminum garnet, yttrium lithium fluoride, calcium fluoride, germanium, selenium, telluride, Bi 2 Te 3 , and SiC. A significant failure of our internal production processes or our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of these necessary materials on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Increases in commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of increases in commodity prices. Our businesses purchase, produce, and sell high-purity selenium and other raw materials based upon quoted market prices from minor metal exchanges. The negative impact from increases in commodity prices might not be recovered through our product sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our net earnings and financial condition. We use and generate potentially hazardous substances that are subject to stringent environmental regulations. Hazardous substances used or generated in some of our research and manufacturing facilities are subject to stringent environmental regulation. We believe that our handling of such substances is in material compliance with applicable environmental, safety, and health regulations at each operating location. We invest substantially in proper personal protective equipment and process controls, including monitoring and specialized training, to minimize risks to employees, surrounding communities, and the environment that could result from the presence and handling of such hazardous substances. When exposure problems or potential exposure problems have been uncovered, corrective actions have been implemented, and re-occurrence has been minimal or nonexistent. 32 We have in place an emergency response plans with respect to our generation and use of the hazardous substances hydrogen selenide, hydrogen sulfide, arsine, and phosphine. Special attention has been given to all procedures pertaining to these gaseous materials to minimize the chance of its accidental release into the atmosphere. With respect to the manufacturing, use, storage, and disposal of the low-level radioactive material thorium fluoride, our facilities and procedures have been inspected and licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Thorium-bearing by-products are collected and shipped as solid waste to a government-approved low-level radioactive waste disposal site in Clive, Utah. The generation, use, collection, storage, and disposal of all other hazardous by-products, such as suspended solids containing heavy metals or airborne particulates, are believed by us to be in material compliance with regulations. We believe that we have obtained all of the permits and licenses required for operation of our business. Although we do not know of any material environmental, safety, or health problems in our properties, processes, or products, there can be no assurance that problems will not develop in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations and prevent us from fulfilling our debt-related obligations. As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $1.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis. Our indebtedness could have important consequences for us, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, or to our trade or other creditors; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund capital expenditures and acquisitions, particularly when the availability of financing in the capital markets is limited; requiring us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing or on our variable-rate indebtedness if interest rates rise; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations and the proceeds of any capital markets offerings or loan borrowings for the payment of interest on our debt and reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate requirements; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, together with any future borrowings, to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before its maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in order to finance our operations, fund acquisitions, or repay existing indebtedness. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, pursuing sales of additional debt or equity securities, or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments, or alliances. Any such actions, if necessary, may not be able to be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or on terms that would be advantageous to our stockholders, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. Unfavorable changes in tax rates, tax liabilities, or tax accounting rules could negatively affect future results. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries and jurisdictions. As such, we must exercise a level of judgment in determining our worldwide tax liabilities. Our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates or changes in tax laws. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) in December 2017 significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the United States imposes tax on multinational corporations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority under the Tax Act to issue regulations and interpretive guidance. We have applied available guidance to estimate our tax obligations, but new guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department may cause us to make adjustments to our tax estimates in future periods. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to 33 determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provision and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operation, or financial condition. Natural disasters or other global or regional catastrophic events could disrupt our operations, give rise to substantial environmental hazards, and adversely affect our results. We may be exposed to business interruptions due to extreme weather caused by climate change and deforestation, force majeure catastrophes, natural disaster, pandemic, terrorism, or acts of war that are beyond our control. Disruptions to our facilities or systems, or to those of our key suppliers, could also interrupt operational processes and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products and provide services and support to our customers. As a result, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain, and develop key personnel and requires continued good relations with our employees. We are highly dependent upon the experience and continuing services of certain scientists, engineers, production, and management personnel. Competition for the services of these personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or attract the personnel necessary for our success. The loss of the services of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We contract with a number of large end-user service providers and product companies that have considerable bargaining power, which may require us to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. Large end-user service providers and product companies comprise a significant portion of our customer base. These customers generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers, including us. As we seek to expand our sales to existing customers and acquire new customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that are favorable to our customers and that may affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, large customers have increased buying power and ability to require onerous terms in our contracts with them, including pricing, warranties, and indemnification terms. If we are unable to satisfy the terms of these contracts, it could result in liabilities of a material nature, including litigation, damages, additional costs, loss of market share, and loss of reputation. Additionally, the terms these large customers require, such as most-favored customer or exclusivity provisions, may impact our ability to do business with other customers and generate revenues from such customers. We may be adversely affected by climate change regulations. In many of the countries in which we operate, government bodies are increasingly enacting legislation and regulations in response to potential impacts of climate change. These laws and regulations may be mandatory. They have the potential to impact our operations directly or indirectly as a result of required compliance by our customers or our supply chain. Inconsistency of regulations may also affect the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations. Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change legislation, regulation, and international treaties and accords are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which we operate. We may incur increased capital expenditures resulting from required compliance with revised or new legislation or regulations, added costs to purchase raw materials, lower profits from sales of our products, allowances or credits under a cap and trade system, increased insurance premiums and deductibles as new actuarial tables are developed to reshape coverage, changes in competitive position relative to industry peers, changes to profit or loss arising from increased or decreased demand for goods produced by us, or changes in costs of goods sold. We depend on large purchases from a few significant customers, and any loss, cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by these customers could harm our business. A small number of customers have consistently accounted for a significant portion of our revenues, although none individually represent greater than 10% of total revenues. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with our major customers. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, we expect that significant customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to offset any decline in revenues from our existing major customers with revenues from new customers, and our quarterly results may be volatile because we are dependent on large orders from these customers that may be reduced, delayed, or cancelled. The markets in which we have historically sold our optical subsystems and components products are dominated by a relatively small number of systems manufacturers, thereby limiting the number of our potential customers. 34 Our dependence on large orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critically important to our business. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain our major customers, attract additional customers, or that our customers will be successful in selling their products that incorporate our products. In addition, governmental trade action or economic sanctions may limit or preclude our ability to do business with certain customers. We have in the past experienced delays and reductions in orders from some of our major customers. In addition, our customers have in the past sought price concessions from us, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Expense reduction measures that we have implemented over the past several years, and additional action we are taking to reduce costs, may adversely affect our ability to introduce new and improved products, which may, in turn, adversely affect our relationships with some of our key customers. Further, some of our customers may in the future shift their purchases of products from us to our competitors or to joint ventures between these customers and our competitors, or may in certain circumstances produce competitive products themselves. The loss of one or more of our major customers, any reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers, or future price concessions that we may make could significantly harm our business. The manufacturing of our products may be adversely affected if we are unable to manufacture certain products in our manufacturing facilities. We manufacture some of the components that we incorporate into our subsystem products; in other cases, we provide components to contract manufacturers to produce finished goods. For some of the components and finished goods, we are the sole manufacturer. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, and issues are often difficult to detect and correct. From time to time we have experienced problems achieving acceptable yields in our manufacturing facilities, resulting in delays in the availability of our products. In addition, if we experience problems with our manufacturing facilities, it would be costly and require a long period of time to move the manufacture of these components and finished good products to a different facility or contract manufacturer, which could result in interruptions in supply and would likely materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, for a variety of reasons, including changes in circumstances at our contract manufacturers or our own business strategies, we may voluntarily, or be required to, transfer the manufacturing of certain products to other manufacturing sites. Changes in manufacturing processes are often required due to changes in product specifications, changing customer needs, and the introduction of new products. These changes may reduce manufacturing yields at our contract manufacturers and at our own manufacturing facilities, resulting in reduced margins on those products. In addition, many of our products are sourced from suppliers based outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. Uncertainty with respect to tax and trade policies, tariffs, and government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries has recently increased. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of tariffs on imported products, could increase our product and product-related costs or require us to seek alternative suppliers, either of which could result in decreased sales or increased product and product-related costs. Failure to accurately forecast our revenues could result in additional charges for obsolete or excess inventories or noncancellable purchase commitments. We base many of our operating decisions, and enter into purchase commitments, on the basis of anticipated revenue trends that are highly unpredictable. Some of our purchase commitments are not cancellable, and in some cases we are required to recognize a charge representing an amount of material or capital equipment purchased or ordered that exceeds our actual requirements. Should revenues in future periods fall substantially below our expectations, or should we fail to accurately forecast changes in demand mix, we could be required to record substantial charges for obsolete or excess inventories or noncancellable purchase commitments. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and Nasdaq listing requirements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure