Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of Coherents financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of management. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included under Item 1 of this quarterly report. Coherents MD&A is presented in seven sections: Forward-Looking Statements Overview Restructuring and Site Consolidation SiC Strategy Critical Accounting Estimates Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Forward-looking statements in Item 2 may involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially from those projected (refer to Part II Item 1A for discussion of these risks and uncertainties). Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements contained in the MD&A are forward-looking statements as defined by Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding projected growth rates, markets, product development, financial position, capital expenditures and foreign currency exposure. Forward-looking statements are also identified by words such as expects, anticipates, intends, believes, plans, projects or similar expressions. Although our management considers the expectations and assumptions on which the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are based to have a reasonable basis, there can be no assurance that managements expectations, beliefs or projections as expressed in the forward-looking statements will actually occur or prove to be correct. In addition to general industry and global economic conditions, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to: (i) the failure of any one or more of the expectations or assumptions on which such forward-looking statements are based to prove to be correct; and (ii) the risks relating to forward-looking statements and other Risk Factors discussed in Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 and in the Company's other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, or otherwise. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment; new risk factors can arise, and it is not possible for management to anticipate all such risk factors, or to assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any individual risk factor, or combination of risk factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are based only on information currently available to us and speak only as of the date of this Report. We do not assume any obligation, and do not intend, to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by the securities laws. Investors should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature that the Company may make in its subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, or other disclosures filed with or furnished to the SEC. Investors should also be aware that, while the Company does communicate with securities analysts from time to time, such communications are conducted in accordance with applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement, conclusion of any analysis, or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Overview Coherent Corp. (Coherent, the Company, we, us or our), a global leader in materials, networking and lasers, is a vertically integrated manufacturing company that develops, manufactures and markets engineered materials, optoelectronic components and devices, and lasers for use in the industrial, communications, electronics, and instrumentation markets. Headquartered in Saxonburg, Pennsylvania, Coherent has research and development, manufacturing, sales, service, and distribution facilities worldwide. Coherent produces a wide variety of lasers, along with application-specific photonic and electronic materials and components, and deploys them in various forms, including integrated with advanced software to enable its customers. 23 We generate almost all of our revenues, earnings and cash flows from developing, manufacturing and marketing a broad portfolio of products and services for our end markets. We also generate revenue, earnings and cash flows from government-funded research and development contracts relating to the development and manufacture of new technologies, materials and products. Our customer base includes original equipment manufacturers; laser end-users; system integrators of high-power lasers; manufacturers of equipment and devices for industrial, optical communications, electronics, and instrumentation markets; communication end-users including communication service providers, hyperscale and other cloud internet content providers; U.S. government prime contractors; and various U.S. government agencies. As we grow, we are focused on scaling our Company and deriving the continued benefits of vertical integration as we strive to be a best-in-class player in all of our highly competitive markets. We may elect to change the way in which we operate or are organized in the future to enable the most efficient implementation of our strategy. Restructuring and Site Consolidation Restructuring Plan On May 23, 2023, the Board of Directors approved the Companys May 2023 Restructuring Plan which includes site consolidations, facilities moves and closures, as well as the relocation and requalification of certain manufacturing facilities. These restructuring actions are expected to be accompanied by other cost reductions and are intended to realign our cost structure as part of a transformation to a simpler, more streamlined, resilient and sustainable business model. In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, these activities resulted in $3 million of charges primarily for employee termination costs. In fiscal 2023, these activities resulted in $119 million of charges primarily for employee termination costs and the write-off of property and equipment, net of $65 million from reimbursement arrangements. We expect the restructuring actions to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2025. However, the actual timing and costs associated with these restructuring actions may differ from our current expectations and estimates and such differences may be material. See Note 17. Restructuring and Synergy and Site Consolidation Plan to the Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. Synergy and Site Consolidation Plan On May 20, 2023, the Company announced that it has accelerated some of the actions planned as part of its multi-year synergy and site consolidation efforts following the acquisition of Coherent, Inc., including site consolidations and relocations to lower cost sites. These relocations and other actions are expected to result in the Company achieving its previously announced $250 million synergy plan, which includes savings from supply chain management, internal supply of enabling materials and components, operational efficiencies in all functions due to scale, global functional model efficiencies and consolidation of corporate costs. In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, the acceleration of these activities resulted in $8 million of charges primarily for employee termination, overlapping labor related to transition of manufacturing operations to other sites, shut down costs and accelerated depreciation. In fiscal 2023, the acceleration of these activities resulted in $8 million of charges primarily for employee termination costs, the write-off of inventory for products that are being exited and shut down costs. See Note 17. Restructuring and Synergy and Site Consolidation Plan to the Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. SiC Strategy On May 10, 2023, the Company announced that it has commenced a review of strategic alternatives for its Silicon Carbide business. On October 10, 2023, the Company entered into investment agreements with Denso Corporation (DENSO) and Mitsubishi Electric Corporation (Mitsubishi Electric), under which they will collectively invest an aggregate of $1 billion in Silicon Carbide LLC, a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary (Silicon Carbide). Under the terms of the Investment Agreements, DENSO and Mitsubishi Electric will each invest $500 million in exchange for a 12.5% non-controlling ownership interest in Silicon Carbide, with Coherent owning the remaining 75%. In connection with the transaction, Silicon Carbide will supply DENSO and Mitsubishi Electric 150 mm and 200 mm silicon carbide (SiC) substrates and epitaxial wafers pursuant to long term agreements. The transaction is expected to allow Coherent to increase its available free cash flow to provide greater financial and operational flexibility to execute its capital allocation priorities. The $1 billion investment will be used to fund future capital expenditure requirements of Silicon Carbide. The transaction is expected to close by or during the first quarter of calendar 2024. 24 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures are in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K dated August 18, 2023 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Standards See Note 2. Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations ($ in millions, except per share data) The following tables set forth select items from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 ($ in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 % of Revenues % of Revenues Total revenues $ 1,053 100 % $ 1,345 100 % Cost of goods sold 746 71 901 67 Gross margin 307 29 444 33 Operating expenses: Internal research and development 113 11 121 9 Selling, general and administrative 212 20 280 21 Restructuring charges 3 Interest and other, net 67 6 93 7 Loss before income taxes (88) (8) (51) (4) Income taxes (21) (2) (12) (1) Net loss $ (67) (6) % $ (39) (3) % Diluted loss per share $ (0.65) $ (0.56) Consolidated Revenues. Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2023 decreased 22% to $1,053 million, compared to $1,345 million for the same period last fiscal year. Revenues decreased in all four markets, with the largest decline, $126 million (22%), in the Communications market, primarily due to decreased demand in telecom applications. Electronics market revenues decreased $91 million (50%), primarily in consumer electronics applications. In addition, revenues decreased in the Industrial market by $57 million, or 12%, due to decreases in semiconductor capital equipment applications and by $18 million, or 16%, in the Instrumentation market due to decreases in life sciences applications. Networking revenues decreased $124 million year-over-year, with decreases from telecom applications in our communications end market. Materials decreased $111 million year-over-year, primarily due to lower demand for sensing products and other consumer applications in the electronics end market. Lasers revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2023 decreased $57 million, due to lower demand for semiconductor and display capital equipment and precision manufacturing applications in the industrial end market as well as lower shipments to the instrumentation end market. 25 Gross margin. Gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2023 was $307 million, or 29% of total revenues, compared to $444 million, or 33% of total revenues, for the same period last fiscal year, a decrease of 390 basis points. The decrease as a percent of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2023 included the favorable impact of $45 million lower expense related to the fair value adjustment on acquired inventory from the acquisition of Coherent, Inc, (Merger) and $16 million lower amortization expense related to technology acquired in the Merger. Gross margins, excluding the lower amortization and lower fair value adjustment on acquired inventory, decreased 790 basis points for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the prior year period primarily due to lower revenues, higher cost product built and capitalized in prior periods being expensed, less favorable sales mix especially in datacom applications in the communications market, underutilized operating capacity in several plants, shut down costs related to site consolidations, higher costs related to product lines that are being exited, and the unfavorable foreign exchange rates. Internal research and development. Internal research and development (IR&D) expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2023 were $113 million, or 11% of revenues, compared to $121 million, or 9% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease for the three months ended September 30, 2023 was primarily in the Materials and Networking segments and was driven by lower costs due to the consolidation of sites and our efforts to control costs. The IR&D expenses are primarily related to our continued investment in new products and manufacturing processes across all of our businesses, including significant investments in indium phosphide semiconductor lasers, silicon carbide materials, devices for both power electronics and wireless devices, and lasers for display processing and semiconductor capital equipment. Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2023 were $212 million, or 20% of revenues, compared to $280 million, or 21% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the same period last fiscal year was the result of lower charges related to the Merger, including $39 million lower transaction fees and financing, lower one-time expense of $18 million related to share-based compensation resulting from the Merger, as well as $13 million lower severance and integration consulting costs partially offset by incremental amortization expense of $6 million. Restructuring Charges. Restructuring charges related to our Restructuring Plan for the three months ended September 30, 2023 were $3 million and consist of severance, move costs, equipment write-offs and accelerated depreciation due to the consolidation of certain manufacturing sites. See Note 17. Restructuring and Synergy and Site Consolidation Plan for further information. Interest and other, net. Interest and other, net for the three months ended September 30, 2023 was expense of $67 million, compared to expense of $93 million for the same period last fiscal year, a decrease of $27 million. Included in interest and other, net, were interest expense on borrowings, foreign currency gains and losses, amortization of debt issuance costs, equity gains and losses from unconsolidated investments, and interest income on excess cash balances as well as Merger financing fees in the prior year quarter. For the three months ended September 30, 2023, the decrease of $27 million in comparison to the same period last fiscal year was driven by $35 million incurred in the prior year quarter related to financing of the Merger and $3 million incremental interest income partially offset by $11 million of incremental interest expense due to higher interest rates on our Term Facilities. Income taxes. The Companys year-to-date effective income tax rate was 24% at both September 30, 2023 and September 30, 2022. The variations between the Companys effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 21% were due to tax rate differentials between U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Segment Reporting Revenues and operating income for our reportable segments are discussed below. Operating income differs from net earnings in that operating income excludes certain expenses included in other expense (income) net as reported. Management believes operating income to be a useful measure for investors, as it reflects the results of segment performance over which management has direct control and is used by management in its evaluation of segment performance. See Note 12. Segment Reporting, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on our reportable segments and for the reconciliation of our operating income to net earnings, which is incorporated herein by reference. We report our financial results in the following three designated segments: (i) Networking, (ii) Materials, and (iii) Lasers. Networking ($ in millions) Three Months Ended September 30, % Increase (Decrease) 2023 2022 Revenues $ 473 $ 597 (21)% Operating income $ 16 $ 91 (82)% 26 Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2023 decreased 21% to $473 million, compared to $597 million for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease in revenue of $124 million during the three months ended September 30, 2023 was primarily due to decreases in the communications market driven by decreased revenues in telecom applications. Operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2023 decreased 82% to $16 million, compared to operating income of $91 million for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease in operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2023 was driven by $124 million lower revenues as well as lower gross margin percentage. The margin percentage was lower than the three months ended September 30, 2022 due to less favorable sales mix in datacom applications, the impact of fixed manufacturing costs on lower revenues as a percentage of revenue and higher costs related to products that are being exited. Materials ($ in millions) Three Months Ended September 30, % Increase (Decrease) 2023 2022 Revenues $ 245 $ 356 (31)% Operating income $ 7 $ 75 (90)% Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2023 decreased 31% to $245 million, compared to revenues of $356 million for the same period last fiscal year. Compared to the three months ended September 30, 2022, Materials decreased $111 million year-over-year, with a decrease of $89 million in the electronics end market for consumer products, partially offset by higher demand for electric vehicles, as well as a decrease of $11 million in industrial market applications. Demand in communications and instrumentation markets also decreased, but to a lesser extent. Operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2023 decreased 90% to $7 million, compared to operating income of $75 million for the same period last fiscal year, primarily driven by $111 million lower revenues and lower margin percentage. The margin percentage was lower than the three months ended September 30, 2022 due to the unfavorable impact of fixed manufacturing costs with lower revenues, higher cost product built and capitalized in prior periods being expensed, underutilized operating capacity in several plants and shut down costs related to site consolidations. Lasers ($ in millions) Three Months Ended September 30, % Increase (Decrease) 2023 2022 Revenues $ 336 $ 392 (14)% Operating loss $ (45) $ (124) 64% Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2023 decreased 14% to $336 million, compared to revenues of $392 million for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to a $43 million drop in the industrial end market due to lower demand for semiconductor and display capital equipment and precision manufacturing applications, as well as $14 million lower shipments to the instrumentation end market. Operating loss for the three months ended September 30, 2023 decreased 64% to $45 million, compared to an operating loss of $124 million for the same period last fiscal year. The lower operating loss was driven by $120 million lower costs in the current year quarter compared to the prior year quarter related to the Merger, including $45 million lower amortization of the preliminary fair value step-up on acquired inventory, $39 million lower transaction fees and financing, $18 million lower nonrecurring share based compensation, $9 million lower integration costs, and $9 million lower amortization expense related to the fair value of intangible assets acquired. Excluding the lower Merger related costs, operating loss for the three months ended September 30, 2023 increased $41 million primarily due to lower revenues and lower gross margin percentage due to less favorable mix within the industrial market and the unfavorable impact of fixed manufacturing costs with lower revenues. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our primary sources of cash have been from operations, long-term borrowings, and advance funding from customers. Other sources of cash include proceeds from the issuance of equity, proceeds received from the exercises of stock options, and sale of equity investments and businesses. Our historic uses of cash have been for business acquisitions, capital expenditures, investment in research and development, payments of principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, payments of debt and equity issuance costs to obtain financing and payments in satisfaction of employees minimum tax obligations. Supplemental information pertaining to our sources and uses of cash for the periods indicated is presented as follows: 27 Sources (uses) of cash (millions): Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 Proceeds from long-term borrowings and revolving credit facility $ $ 3,715 Net proceeds from debt and equity issuances 1,358 Net cash provided by operating activities 199 80 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and other items (10) (42) Proceeds from exercises of stock options and purchases of stock under employee stock purchase plan 15 7 Other items (2) (1) Payments on Convertible Debt and Finisar Notes (4) Payments in satisfaction of employees minimum tax obligations (14) (41) Debt issuance costs (127) Additions to property, plant & equipment (62) (139) Payments on existing debt (19) (996) Purchases of businesses, net of cash acquired (5,489) Operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities was $199 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to $80 million of net cash provided by operating activities for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in cash flows provided by operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the same period last fiscal year was primarily due to improved management of working capital accounts, in particular accounts receivable and accounts payable. Investing activities: Net cash used in investing activities was $64 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to net cash used of $5,628 million for the same period last fiscal year. In the three months ended September 30, 2022, $5.5 billion was used to fund the Merger. Cash used to fund capital expenditures decreased by $77 million year-over-year. Financing activities: Net cash used in financing activities was $18 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $3.9 billion for the same period last fiscal year. Financing outflows in the current year period included payments on existing debt. Cash inflow for the prior year-to-date period was from borrowings under the Term Facilities, defined below, as well the net proceeds from the issuance of Coherents Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock. Financing outflows for the prior year-to-date period included payments to settle the Companys existing senior credit facilities. 28 Table of Contents New Senior Credit Facilities On July 1, 2022, Coherent entered into a Credit Agreement by and among the Company, the lenders, and other parties thereto, and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent, which provides for senior secured financing of $4.0 billion, consisting of a term loan A credit facility (the Term A Facility), with an aggregate principal amount of $850 million, a term loan B credit facility (the Term B Facility and, together with the Term A Facility, the Term Facilities), with an aggregate principal amount of $2,800 million, and a revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility and, together with the Term Facilities, the Senior Credit Facilities), in an aggregate available amount of $350 million, including a letter of credit sub-facility of up to $50 million. On March 31, 2023, Coherent entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Credit Agreement, which replaced the adjusted LIBOR-based rate of interest therein with an adjusted Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) based rate of interest. As amended, the Term A Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility each bear interest at an adjusted SOFR rate subject to a 0.10% floor plus a range of 1.75% to 2.50%, based on the Companys total net leverage ratio. The Term A Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility borrowings bear interest at adjusted SOFR plus 1.75% as of September 30, 2023. As amended, the Term B Facility bears interest at an adjusted SOFR rate (subject to a 0.50% floor) plus 2.75%. In relation to the Term Facilities, the Company incurred expense of $60 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, which is included in interest expense in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss). On July 1, 2023, our interest rate cap became effective, which together with our interest rate swap, reduced interest expense by $11 million during the three months ended September 30, 2023. During the three months ended September 30, 2023, the Company made payments of $18 million for the Term Facilities. As of September 30, 2023, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. Our cash position, borrowing capacity and debt obligations are as follows (in millions): September 30, 2023 June 30, 2023 Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 941 $ 833 Available borrowing capacity under Revolving Credit Facility 346 348 Total debt obligations 4,294 4,310 Other Liquidity On October 10, 2023, the Company entered into two investment agreements under which Silicon Carbide LLC, a Company subsidiary, will receive, subject to closing, $1.0 billion cash in exchange for 25% of the equity of that entity. Such funds will be used primarily to fund future capital expansion, including the previously-announced capital that Coherent intended to invest in its silicon carbide business. As a result, the transaction will enable Coherent to allocate the capital it had intended to invest in this business unit to other corporate purposes, thus increasing its available free cash flow which will provide greater financial and operational flexibility. The transaction is expected to close by or during the first quarter of calendar 2024. There can be no assurance that the transaction will close as anticipated or at all. See Note 18. Subsequent Events for further information. The Company believes existing cash, cash flow from operations, and available borrowing capacity from its Senior Credit Facilities will be sufficient to fund its needs for working capital, capital expenditures, repayment of scheduled long-term borrowings and lease obligations, investments in IR&D, and internal and external growth objectives at least through the next twelve months. Our cash and cash equivalent balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world, including amounts held outside the United States. As of September 30, 2023, the Company held approximately $788 million of cash and cash equivalents outside of the United States. Generally, cash balances held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States. At September 30, 2023, we had $10 million of restricted cash. 29 Table of Contents