Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements contained in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are forward-looking statements as defined by Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding projected growth rates, markets, product development, financial position, capital expenditures and foreign currency exposure. Forward-looking statements are also identified by words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, projects or similar expressions. 25 Table of Contents Although our management considers the expectations and assumptions on which the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are based to have a reasonable basis, there can be no assurance that managements expectations, beliefs or projections as expressed in the forward-looking statements will actually occur or prove to be correct. In addition to general industry and global economic conditions, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to: (i) the failure of any one or more of the expectations or assumptions on which such forward-looking statements are based to prove to be correct; and (ii) the risks relating to forward-looking statements and other Risk Factors discussed in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 and in the Company's other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company disclaims any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, or otherwise. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment; new risk factors can arise, and it is not possible for management to anticipate all such risk factors, or to assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any individual risk factor, or combination of risk factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are based only on information currently available to us and speak only as of the date of this Report. We do not assume any obligation, and do not intend, to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by the securities laws. Investors should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature that the Company may make in its subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, or other disclosures filed with or furnished to the SEC. Investors should also be aware that, while the Company does communicate with securities analysts from time to time, such communications are conducted in accordance with applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement, conclusion of any analysis, or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Overview II-VI Incorporated (II-VI, the Company, we, us or our), a worldwide leader in engineered materials and opto-electronic components, is a vertically integrated manufacturing company that develops innovative products for communications, industrial, aerospace and defense, consumer electronics, semiconductor capital equipment, life sciences and automotive end markets. The Company produces a wide variety of application-specific photonic and electronic materials and components, and deploys them in various forms, including integration with advanced software. The Company generates revenues, earnings and cash flows from developing, manufacturing and marketing a broad portfolio of products for our end markets. We also generate revenue, earnings and cash flows from government and customer-funded research and development contracts relating to the development and manufacture of new technologies, materials and products. Our customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, laser end users, system integrators of high-power lasers, manufacturers of equipment and devices for industrial, optical communications, consumer electronics, security and monitoring applications, U.S. government prime contractors, and various U.S. government agencies. As we grow, we are focused on scaling our company and deriving the continued benefits of vertical integration as we strive to be a best-in-class competitor in all of our highly competitive markets. The Company may elect to change the way in which the Company operates or is organized in the future to enable the most efficient implementation of our strategy. Pending Coherent Acquisition On March 25, 2021, II-VI, Coherent, Inc. (Coherent) and Watson Merger Sub Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of II-VI (Merger Sub), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, and subject to the conditions set forth therein, Merger Sub will be merged with and into Coherent, and Coherent will continue as the surviving corporation in the merger and wholly owned subsidiary of II-VI (the Merger). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, and subject to the conditions set forth therein, at the effective time of the Merger (the Effective Time), each share of common stock of Coherent (the Coherent Common Stock) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time will be canceled and extinguished and automatically converted into the right to receive the following consideration (collectively, the Merger Consideration): (A) $220.00 in cash, without interest 26 (the Cash Consideration), and (B) 0.91 of a validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock of II-VI, no par value per share ("II-VI Common Stock"). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, each Coherent restricted stock unit award (a Coherent RSU), other than Director RSUs (as defined below), outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time will be automatically converted into time-based restricted stock units denominated in shares of II-VI Common Stock entitling the holder to receive, upon settlement, a number of shares of II-VI Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Coherent Common Stock subject to the Coherent RSU multiplied by the sum of (A) 0.91, and (B) the quotient obtained by dividing the Cash Consideration by the volume weighted average price of a share of II-VI Common Stock for a 10 trading day period ending prior to the closing of the Merger (the Closing). For Coherent RSUs subject to performance-based vesting conditions and metrics, the number of shares of II-VI Common Stock subject to the converted Coherent RSUs will be determined after giving effect to the Coherent Board of Directors determination of the number of Coherent RSUs earned, based on the greater of the target or actual level of achievement of such goals or metrics immediately prior to the Effective Time. The converted Coherent RSUs generally will be subject to the same terms and conditions that applied to the awards immediately prior to the Effective Time, provided that any Coherent RSUs subject to performance-based vesting conditions will be subject solely to time-and service-based vesting. Each Coherent RSU that is outstanding as of the date of the Merger Agreement and as of immediately prior to the Effective Time will be entitled to certain vesting acceleration benefits. Each Coherent RSU granted to a non-employee member of Coherents Board of Directors (Director RSUs) (whether or not vested) that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time will automatically vest in full and be canceled and converted into the right to receive the Merger Consideration as if such Director RSU had been settled in shares of Coherent Common Stock immediately prior to the Effective Time. The Boards of Directors of II-VI and Coherent unanimously approved the Merger and the Merger Agreement. II-VI filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 relating to the Merger, and the SEC declared that registration statement to be effective on May 6, 2021. Shareholders of II-VI and stockholders of Coherent voted to approve proposals related to the Merger at special meetings held on June 24, 2021 by the respective companies. The completion of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain additional customary closing conditions, including review and approval of the Merger by the State Administration for Market Regulation in China. Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of each of the closing conditions, II-VI anticipates that the Merger will be completed by the middle of the second calendar quarter of 2022. However, it is possible that factors outside the control of both companies could result in the Merger being completed at a later time or not at all. In connection with entering into the Merger Agreement, II-VI has obtained a fully underwritten financing commitment pursuant to a commitment letter (the Commitment Letter), dated as of March 25, 2021, as further amended and restated on April 21, 2021, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., MUFG Bank, Ltd., MUFG Securities Americas Inc., PNC Capital Markets LLC, PNC Bank, National Association, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Citizens Bank, N.A., Mizuho Bank, Ltd., BMO Capital Markets Corp., Bank of Montreal, TD Securities (USA) LLC, The Toronto-Dominion Bank, New York Branch, TD Bank, N.A. and First National Bank of Pennsylvania (collectively, the Commitment Parties) pursuant to which the Commitment Parties have committed to provide up to $5.125 billion in debt financing. II-VI and the Commitment Parties amended and restated the Commitment Letter on October 25, 2021 (the Amended and Restated Commitment Letter) to effect certain amendments thereto, including to reduce the total amounts of commitments thereunder to $4.99 billion. The obligation of the Commitment Parties to provide the debt financing provided for in the Amended and Restated Commitment Letter is subject to a number of customary conditions. Subject to the terms of the Amended and Restated Debt Commitment Letter, the commitment parties thereto committed to provide a senior unsecured bridge loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $990 million (the "Bridge Loan Commitment"). As a result of the issuance of the Senior Notes (defined in Note 8), the Bridge Loan Commitment was terminated, such that the total amounts of commitments under the Amended and Restated Commitment Letter are $4.0 billion. On December 10, 2021, II-VI issued $990 million aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes are guaranteed by each of the Companys domestic subsidiaries that guarantee its obligations under its existing credit agreement. The Senior Notes were offered and sold either to persons reasonably believed to be qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), or to persons outside the United States under Regulation S of the Securities Act. Interest on the Senior Notes will be payable on December 15 and June 15 of each year, commencing on June 15, 2022, at a rate of 5.00% per annum. The Senior Notes will mature on December 15, 2029. 27 As of December 10, 2021, the New Term Facilities and the New Revolving Credit Facility (as defined in Note 8) contemplated by the Amended and Restated Commitment Letter have been fully priced and allocated. The Company intends to borrow under the New Term Facilities and to use the net proceeds from the issuance and sale of the Senior Notes in connection with the Merger. The New Revolving Credit Facility is expected to be available concurrently with the Closing. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the Senior Notes, together with other financing sources (including the New Term Facilities described further under Note 3. Pending Coherent Acquisition in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q ) and cash on hand, to fund the Cash Consideration, the repayment of certain indebtedness and certain fees and expenses in connection with the Merger. If (i) the Merger has not been consummated on or prior to 11:59 p.m., Eastern Time, on December 15, 2022 or (ii) the Company informs the Trustee in writing or otherwise announces in writing that the Merger is no longer being pursued and/or the Merger Agreement has been terminated, the Company will be required to redeem all of the outstanding Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the applicable redemption date. In connection with entering into the Merger Agreement, II-VI entered into an Amended and Restated Investment Agreement, dated as of as of March 30, 2021, (the "Investment Agreement"), with BCPE Watson (DE) SPV, LP, an affiliate of Bain Capital Private Equity, LP (the Investor). Pursuant to the terms of the Investment Agreement, on March 31, 2021, II-VI issued, sold, and delivered to the Investor 75,000 shares of a new Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company (II-VI Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock) for $10,000 per share (the Equity Per Share Price), resulting in an aggregate purchase price of $750 million. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Investment Agreement, among other things, the Company and the Investor also agreed that the Company would issue, sell and deliver to the Investor: 105,000 shares of a new Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company (II-VI Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock) for a purchase price per share equal to the Equity Per Share Price, resulting in an aggregate purchase price of $1.05 billion, immediately prior to the Closing; and immediately prior to the Closing, if elected by the Company and agreed by the Investor, up to an additional 35,000 shares of II-VI Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Upsize Shares") for a purchase price per share equal to the Equity Per Share Price, resulting in an aggregate maximum purchase price for the Upsize Shares of $350 million. Following the Companys provision of notice to the Investor of its election to offer the Upsize Shares, the Investor informed the Company on June 8, 2021 of its agreement to purchase the Upsize Shares from the Company immediately prior to the Closing, increasing the Investors total equity commitment to II-VI pursuant to the Investment Agreement to $2.15 billion. The expenses associated with the Merger for the six months ended December 31, 2021, have not been allocated to an Operating Segment, and are presented in the Unallocated and Other within this Quarterly Report. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures are in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K dated August 20, 2021 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Standards See Note 2. Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. COVID-19 Update On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization designated the novel coronavirus disease known as COVID-19 as a global pandemic. In response to the global spread of COVID-19, governments at various levels have implemented unprecedented 28 response measures. Overall, the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly curtailed global economic activity and caused significant volatility and disruption in global financial markets. Certain of the measures taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic have adversely affected, and could in the future materially adversely impact, our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. In particular, the COVID-19 pandemic continues to have a significant impact on global trade, which has resulted in supply chain and production disruptions impacting our business. Our focus has been on the protection of the health and safety of our employees and business partners. In our facilities, we have deployed new safety measures, including guidance to employees on matters such as effective hygiene and disinfection, social distancing, limited and remote-access working where feasible and use of protective equipment. We also are prioritizing efforts to understand and support the changing business needs of our customers and suppliers in light of restrictions that are applicable to them. In addition, our supply chain has been affected by measures implemented in response to the pandemic and in certain cases, our suppliers have not had the materials, capacity or capability to supply us with the components necessary for continuing our manufacturing operations or development efforts at our normal levels. There are also restrictions and delays on logistics, such as air cargo carriers, as well as increased logistics costs due to limited capacity and high demands for freight forwarders. Similarly, our customers have also experienced, and could continue to experience, disruptions in their operations, which may result in reduced, delayed, or canceled orders, and have increased collection risks, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the related responses on our operational and financial performance remains uncertain and will depend on many factors outside our control, including, without limitation, the duration and severity of the pandemic, the imposition of protective public safety measures, and the impact of the pandemic on the global economy as a whole and, in particular, demand for our products. Due to these uncertainties, we cannot reasonably estimate the related impact on us at this time. For additional information regarding the risks that we face as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, please see Item 1A, Risk Factors, in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2021. Further, to the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it also may have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the risk factors in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2021 and in our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Results of Operations ($ in millions, except per share data) The following tables set forth select items from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the three and six months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 ($ in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2021 Three Months Ended December 31, 2020 % of Revenues % of Revenues Total revenues $ 807 100 % $ 787 100 % Cost of goods sold 496 61 474 60 Gross margin 311 39 313 40 Operating expenses: Internal research and development 95 12 85 11 Selling, general and administrative 118 15 109 14 Interest and other, net 19 2 12 2 Earnings before income taxes 79 10 106 14 Income taxes 12 1 18 2 Net earnings $ 68 8 % $ 88 11 % Diluted earnings per share $ 0.44 $ 0.73 29 Six Months Ended December 31, 2021 Six Months Ended December 31, 2020 % of Revenues % of Revenues Total revenues $ 1,602 100 % $ 1,515 100 % Cost of goods sold 984 61 925 61 Gross margin 618 39 590 39 Operating expenses: Internal research and development 184 12 163 11 Selling, general and administrative 240 15 207 14 Interest and other, net 24 1 54 4 Earnings (loss) before income taxes 170 11 166 11 Income taxes 28 2 32 2 Net earnings (loss) $ 142 9 % $ 134 9 % Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 0.94 $ 1.12 Consolidated Revenues. Revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2021 increased 3% to $807 million, compared to $787 million for the same period last fiscal year. Revenues for the six months ended December 31, 2021 increased 6% to $1,602 million, compared to $1,515 million for the same period last fiscal year . The increase in revenue for both the three and six months ended December 31, 2021 is driven by increased sales in the industrial and communications product lines, especially 200, 400, and 800G products. Gross margin. Gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was $311 million, or 39% of total revenues, compared to $313 million, or 40% of total revenues, for the same period last fiscal year, a decrease of 120 basis points. Gross margin for the six months ended December 31, 2021 increased 5% to $618 million, compared to $590 million for the same period last fiscal year, and decreased as a percent of revenue year-over-year by 30 basis points. The decrease as a percent of revenue for both the three and six months ended December 31, 2021, was driven by higher costs to secure components affected by supply chain shortages, as well as additional costs incurred related to COVID-19. Internal research and development. Internal research and development (IR&D) expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2021 were $95 million, or 12% of revenues, compared to $85 million, or 11% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. IR&D for the six months ended December 31, 2021 increased 13% to $184 million, compared to $163 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase for both the three and six months ended December 31, 2021 was driven by additional operating expenses of $10 million related to the start-up of new devices for new customer applications. Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2021 were $118 million, or 15% of revenues, compared to $109 million, or 14% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. SG&A expenses for the six months ended December 31, 2021 were $240 million, or 15% of revenues, compared to $207 million, or 14% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of revenue for the three and six months ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period last fiscal year was primarily the result of transaction costs incurred in the current year related to the Merger of $20 million, as compared to $3 million during the same period last fiscal year. Interest and other, net. Interest and other, net for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was expense of $19 million, compared to expense of $12 million for the same period last fiscal year. Included in interest and other, net, was interest expense on borrowings, equity earnings from unconsolidated investments, foreign currency gains and losses, amortization of debt issuance costs, and interest income on excess cash balances. For the three months ended December 31, 2021, interest and other, net increased by $6 million in comparison to the same period last fiscal year, driven by additional expense incurred in the current year related to financing of the Merger. For the six months ended December 31, 2021, interest and other, net decreased by $31 million in comparison to the same period last fiscal year, driven by $25 million of debt extinguishment expense recognized in the prior year, and a favorable foreign currency fluctuation year-over-year of approximately $17 million. There 30 were foreign currency gains of $5 million for the current six-month period, compared to $12 million of losses for the six months ended December 31, 2020. Income taxes. The Companys year-to-date effective income tax rate at December 31, 2021 was 16%, compared to an effective tax rate of 19% for the same period last fiscal year. The variations between the Companys effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 21% were due to tax rate differentials between U.S. and foreign jurisdictions and deductions for intangible income. Segment Reporting Revenues and operating income for the Companys reportable segments are discussed below. Operating income differs from net earnings in that operating income excludes certain operational expenses included in other expense (income) net as reported. Management believes operating income to be a useful measure for investors, as it reflects the results of segment performance over which management has direct control and is used by management in its evaluation of segment performance. See Note 13. Segment Reporting, to our unaudited consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on the Companys reportable segments and for the reconciliation of the Companys operating income to net earnings, which is incorporated herein by reference. Photonic Solutions ($ in millions) Three Months Ended December 31, % Increase Six Months Ended December 31, % Increase 2021 2020 2021 2020 Revenues $ 525 $ 483 9% $ 1,061 $ 981 8% Operating income $ 50 $ 48 3% $ 106 $ 99 7% Revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2021 increased 9% to $525 million, compared to $483 million for the same period last fiscal year. Revenues for the six months ended December 31, 2021 increased 8% to $1,061 million, compared to $981 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in revenue during the three and six months ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to sustained demand for products in the optical communications market, in particular datacom and telecom products. Operating income for the three months ended December 31, 2021 increased 3% to $50 million, compared to operating income of $48 million for the same period last fiscal year. Operating income for the six months ended December 31, 2021 increased 7% to $106 million, compared to operating income of $99 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in operating income for both the three and six months ended December 31, 2021 was driven by the increase in revenue, and remained consistent as a percentage of sales. Compound Semiconductors ($ in millions) Three Months Ended December 31, % Increase Six Months Ended December 31, % Increase 2021 2020 2021 2020 Revenues $ 282 $ 304 (7)% $ 541 $ 534 1% Operating income $ 57 $ 70 (19)% $ 107 $ 121 (12)% Revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2021 decreased 7% to $282 million, compared to revenues of $304 million for the same period last fiscal year. Compared to the three months ended December 31, 2020, 3D sensing revenue was lower due to two factors, the first being a design change that comes with a lower unit price, accompanied by a shift in timing of revenues into our first fiscal quarter this year. This decrease was partially offset by growth in the industrial and semiconductor capital equipment markets. Revenues for the six months ended December 31, 2021 increased 1% to $541 million, compared to revenues of $534 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in revenues during the six months ended December 31, 2021 primarily related to the increase in demand in the industrial market and the semiconductor capital equipment market. Shipments for 3D sensing were similar to the prior year with strong outlook despite changes in designs. Operating income for the three months ended December 31, 2021 decreased 19% to $57 million, compared to operating income of $70 million for the same period last fiscal year. Operating income for the six months ended December 31, 2021 decreased 31 12% to $107 million, compared to operating income for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease in operating income for both the three and six months ended December 31, 2021 was driven by increased operating expense of $11 million related to the start-up of new devices for new customer applications. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our primary sources of cash have been from operations, long-term borrowing, and advance funding from customers. Other sources of cash include proceeds from the issuance of equity, proceeds received from the exercises of stock options, and sale of equity investments and businesses. Our historic uses of cash have been for capital expenditures, investment in research and development, business acquisitions, payments of principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, payments of debt and equity issuance costs to obtain financing and payments in satisfaction of employees minimum tax obligations. Supplemental information pertaining to our sources and uses of cash for the periods indicated is presented as follows: Sources (uses) of cash (millions): Six Months Ended December 31, 2021 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 240 $ 356 Net proceeds from debt and equity issuances 990 884 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and other items 9 26 Proceeds from exercises of stock options and purchases of stock under employee stock purchase plan 8 22 Purchases of businesses, net of cash acquired (34) Other items (2) Debt issuance costs (6) Payments in satisfaction of employees' minimum tax obligations (14) (7) Payments on Finisar Notes (15) Payment of dividends (21) (7) Payments under long-term borrowings and credit facility (31) (820) Additions to property, plant & equipment (102) (79) Operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities was $240 million for the six months ended December 31, 2021 compared to $356 million of net cash provided by operating activities for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities during the six months ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period last fiscal year was primarily due to increased working capital requirements to mitigate the impact of our supply chain challenges. Investing activities: Net cash used in investing activities was $102 million for the six months ended December 31, 2021, compared to net cash used of $114 million for the same period last fiscal year. Cash used to fund capital expenditures increased by $22 million year over year, to continue to increase capacity to meet the growing demand for the Companys product portfolio. Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended December 31, 2020 was used to fund the acquisitions of Ascatron AB and Innovion Corporation. Financing activities: Net cash provided by financing activities was $911 million for the six months ended December 31, 2021, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $73 million for the same period last fiscal year. Cash outflow for the current period was primarily comprised of payments on the Term A facility (as defined below), payment to repurchase, redeem and settle conversions of Finisar Corporation's 0.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2036 and payment of cash dividends on II-VI's outstanding preferred stock, no par value. Net cash provided by financing activities in the current year primarily consisted of receipt of the net proceeds from the offering of the Senior Notes. 32 The Company intends to use the proceeds from the offering of the Senior Notes, together with other financing sources (including the New Term Facilities and cash on hand), to fund the cash consideration, the repayment of certain indebtedness and certain fees and expenses in connection with the Merger. Senior Credit Facilities The Company currently has Senior Credit Facilities with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and the other lenders party thereto. The credit agreement governing the Senior Credit Facilities (the "Credit Agreement") provides for senior secured financing of $2.425 billion in the aggregate, consisting of (i) Aggregate principal amount of $1,255 million for a five-year senior secured first-lien term A loan facility (the Term A Facility), (ii) Aggregate principal amount of $720 million for a seven-year senior secured term B loan facility (the Term B Facility and together with the Term A Facility, the Term Loan Facilities), which was repaid in full during the quarter ended September 30, 2020, and (iii) Aggregate principal amount of $450 million for a five-year senior secured first-lien revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility and together with the Term Loan Facilities, the Senior Credit Facilities). The Credit Agreement also provides for a letter of credit sub-facility not to exceed $25 million and a swing loan sub-facility initially not to exceed $20 million. The Company is obligated to repay the outstanding principal amount of the Term A Facility in quarterly installments equal to 1.25% of the initial aggregate principal amount of the Term A Facility, with the remaining outstanding balance due and payable on the fifth anniversary of September 24, 2019 (the "Closing Date"). The Company is obligated to repay the outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Credit Facility, if any, on the fifth anniversary of the Closing Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all amounts outstanding under the Senior Credit Facilities will become due and payable 120 days prior to the maturity of the Companys currently outstanding 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 (the II-VI Convertible Notes) if (i) the II-VI Convertible Notes remain outstanding, and (ii) the Company has insufficient cash and borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Facility to repay the principal amount of the II-VI Convertible Notes. The II-VI Convertible Notes are included in the current portion of long-term debt. The Company has sufficient cash to repay the principal amount of the II-VI Convertible Notes, therefore the Senior Credit facilities remain classified as long-term obligations in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Companys obligations under the Senior Credit Facilities are guaranteed by each of the Companys material existing or future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries (collectively, the Guarantors), subject to certain exceptions. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facilities are secured by a first priority lien in substantially all of the assets of the Company and the Guarantors, subject to certain exception, including that no real property secures the Senior Credit Facilities. All amounts outstanding under the Senior Credit Facilities become due and payable 120 days prior to the maturity of the Companys currently outstanding II-VI Convertible Notes if (i) the II-VI Convertible Notes remain outstanding, and (ii) the Company has insufficient cash and borrowing availability to repay the principal amount of the II-VI Convertible Notes. Amounts outstanding under the Senior Credit Facilities bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an applicable margin over a eurocurrency rate or an applicable margin over a base rate determined by reference to the highest of (a) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (b) Bank of America, N.A.s prime rate and (c) a eurocurrency rate plus 1.00%, in each case as calculated in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement. The applicable interest rate would increase under certain circumstances relating to events of default. The Company has entered into an interest rate swap contract to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk on its variable rate borrowings under the Senior Credit Facilities. Refer to Note 15 for further information regarding this interest rate swap. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants with respect to the Senior Credit Facilities, including limitations with respect to liens, investments, indebtedness, dividends, mergers and acquisitions, dispositions of assets and transactions with affiliates. The Company is obligated to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio (as calculated in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement) as of the end of each fiscal quarter of not less than 3.00 to 1.00. The Company is obligated to maintain a consolidated total net leverage ratio (as calculated in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement) of not greater than (i) 5.00 to 1.00 for the first four fiscal quarters after the Finisar Closing Date, 33 commencing with the first full fiscal quarter after the Finisar Closing Date, (ii) 4.50 to 1.00 for the fifth fiscal quarter through and including the eighth fiscal quarter after the Finisar Closing Date, and (iii) 4.00 to 1.00 for each subsequent fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2021 the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Credit Agreement. In addition, on December 2, 2021, the Company entered into an amendment to the Credit Agreement, by and among the Company, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto, related to the offering of the Senior Notes (as defined in Note 8). Additional information regarding the Senior Credit Facilities and certain of the Company's other indebtedness is set forth in Note 8. Debt to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part 1, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.