Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." You can identify these and other forward-looking statements by the use of the words such as "may," "will," "could," "would," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "potential," "projected," "continue," "our observation," or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements also include the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth below in "Business," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and under the heading "Risk Factors." All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements as a result of events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or non-occurrence of anticipated events, except to the extent required by law. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Business Overview Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to September 30. Fiscal years 2016 , 2015 and 2014 ended on October 1 , October 3 , and September 27 , respectively, and are referred to in this annual report as fiscal 2016 , fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014 for convenience. Fiscal years 2016 and 2014 included 52 weeks and fiscal year 2015 included 53 weeks. We are one of the world's leading providers of lasers and laser-based technology in a broad range of scientific, commercial and industrial applications. We design, manufacture, service and market lasers and related accessories for a diverse group of customers. Since inception in 1966, we have grown through internal expansion and through strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, technologies, intellectual property, manufacturing processes and product offerings. We are organized into two operating segments: Specialty Lasers and Systems ("SLS") and Commercial Lasers and Components ("CLC"). This segmentation reflects the go-to-market strategies for various products and markets. While both segments deliver cost-effective photonics solutions, SLS develops and manufactures configurable, advanced performance products largely serving the microelectronics, scientific research and government programs and original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") components and instrumentation markets. The size and complexity of many of the SLS products require service to be performed at the customer site by factory-trained field service engineers. CLC focuses on higher volume products that are offered in set configurations. The product architectures are designed for easy exchange at the point of use such that substantially all product service and repairs are based upon advanced replacement and depot (i.e., factory) repair. CLC's primary markets include materials processing, OEM components and instrumentation and microelectronics. Income from operations is the measure of profit and loss that our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") uses to assess performance and make decisions. Income from operations represents the sales less the cost of sales and direct operating expenses incurred within the operating segments as well as allocated expenses such as shared sales and manufacturing costs. We do not allocate to our operating segments certain operating expenses, which we manage separately at the corporate level. These unallocated costs include stock-based compensation and corporate functions (certain advanced research and development, management, finance, legal and human resources) and are included in Corporate and other. Management does not consider unallocated Corporate and other costs in its measurement of segment performance. We were originally incorporated in California on May 26, 1966 and reincorporated in Delaware on October 1, 1990. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and we are a member of the Standard & Poor's SmallCap 600 Index and the Russell 2000 Index. Additional information about Coherent, Inc. (referred to herein as the Company, we, our, or Coherent) is available on our web site at www.coherent.com. We make available, free of charge on our web site, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Information contained on our web site is not part of this annual report or our other filings with the SEC. Any product, product name, process, or technology described in these materials is the property of Coherent. RECENT EVENTS On November 7, 2016, we completed our previously announced acquisition of Rofin-Sinar Technologies Inc. ("Rofin") pursuant to the Merger Agreement dated March 16, 2016. Rofin is one of the world's leading developers and manufacturers of high-performance industrial laser sources and laser-based solutions and components. As a condition of the acquisition, we are required to divest ourselves of Rofins low power CO2 laser business based in Hull, United Kingdom, and will report this business separately as a discontinued operation until it is divested. The acquisition was an all-cash transaction at a price of $32.50 per share of Rofin common stock. The aggregate consideration paid by us to the former Rofin stockholders was approximately $904.5 million, excluding related transaction fees and expenses. We also paid $15.3 million due to the cancellation of options held by employees of Rofin. We funded the payment of the aggregate consideration with a combination of our available cash on hand and the proceeds from the Euro Term Loan described below. As a result of the acquisition of Rofin, and subsequent to fiscal 2016 year-end, we announced that in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 we will reorganize our existing two segments into two new reporting segments for the combined company, OEM 4 Table of Contents Laser Systems and Industrial Lasers and Systems. Accordingly, our segment information will be restated retroactively in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. On November 7, 2016, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Barclays Bank PLC, Bank of America, N.A., and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. The Credit Agreement provided for a 670.0 million Euro senior secured term loan facility and a $100.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility. On November 7, 2016, the Euro Term Loan was drawn in full and its proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of Rofin and pay related fees and expenses. Also, on November 7, 2016, we used 10.0 million Euro of the capacity under the revolving credit facility for the issuance of a letter of credit. INDUSTRY BACKGROUND The word "laser" is an acronym for "light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation." A laser emits an intense coherent beam of light with some unique and highly useful properties. Most importantly, a laser is orders of magnitude brighter than any lamp. As a result of its coherence, the beam can be focused to a very small and intense spot, useful for applications requiring very high power densities including cutting and other materials processing procedures. The laser's high spatial resolution is also useful for microscopic imaging and inspection applications. Laser light can be monochromaticall of the beam energy is confined to a narrow wavelength band. Some lasers can be used to create ultrafast outputa series of pulses with pulse durations as short as attoseconds (i.e., 10 -18 seconds). There are many types of lasers and one way of classifying them is by the material or medium used to create the lasing action. This can be in the form of a gas, liquid, semiconductor, solid state crystal or fiber. Lasers can also be classified by their output wavelength: ultraviolet, visible, infrared or wavelength tunable. We manufacture all of these laser types. There are also many options in terms of pulsed output versus continuous wave, pulse duration, output power, beam dimensions, etc. In fact, each application has its specific requirements in terms of laser performance. The broad technical depth at Coherent enables us to offer a diverse set of product lines characterized by lasers targeted at growth opportunities and key applications. In all cases, we aim to be the supplier of choice by offering a high-value combination of superior technical performance and high reliability. Photonics has taken its place alongside electronics as a critical enabling technology for the twenty-first century. Photonics based solutions are entrenched in a broad array of industries that include industrial automation, textile processing, microelectronics, flat panel displays and medical diagnostics, with adoption continuing in ever more diverse applications. Growth in these applications stems from two sources. First, there are many applications where the laser is displacing conventional technology because it can do the job faster, better or more economically. Second, there are new applications where the laser is the enabling tool that makes the work possible (e.g., the production of sub 50 micron microvias); these lasers are used in the manufacturing of high density printed circuit boards ("PCBs") found in the latest smart phones and tablet computers. Key laser applications include: semiconductor inspection; manufacturing of advanced PCBs; flat panel display manufacturing; solar cell production; medical and bio-instrumentation; materials processing; metals cutting and welding; industrial process and quality control; marking; imaging and printing; graphic arts and display; and, research and development. For example, ultraviolet (UV) lasers are enabling the move towards miniaturization, which drives innovation and growth in many markets. In addition, the advent of industrial grade ultrafast lasers continues to open up new applications for laser processing. OUR STRATEGY We strive to develop innovative and proprietary products and solutions that meet the needs of our customers and that are based on our core expertise in lasers and optical technologies. In pursuit of our strategy, we intend to: Leverage our technology portfolio and application engineering to lead the proliferation of photonics into broader markets We will continue to identify opportunities in which our technology portfolio and application engineering can be used to offer innovative solutions and gain access to new markets. We plan to utilize our expertise to increase our market share in the mid to high power material processing applications. Optimize our leadership position in existing markets There are a number of markets where we have historically been at the forefront of technological development and product deployment and from which we have derived a substantial portion of our revenues. We plan to optimize our financial returns from these markets. Maintain and develop additional strong collaborative customer and industry relationships We believe that the Coherent brand name and reputation for product quality, technical performance and customer satisfaction will help us to further develop our loyal customer base. We plan to maintain our current customer relationships and 5 Table of Contents develop new ones with customers who are industry leaders and work together with these customers to design and develop innovative product systems and solutions as they develop new technologies. Develop and acquire new technologies and market share We will continue to enhance our market position through our existing technologies and develop new technologies through our internal research and development efforts, as well as through the acquisition of additional complementary technologies, intellectual property, manufacturing processes and product offerings. Streamline our manufacturing structure and improve our cost structure We will focus on optimizing the mix of products that we manufacture internally and externally. We will utilize vertical integration where our internal manufacturing process is considered proprietary and seek to leverage external sources when the capabilities and cost structure are well developed and on a path towards commoditization. Focus on long-term improvement of adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of net sales We define adjusted EBITDA as operating income adjusted for depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation expense, major restructuring costs and certain other non-operating income and expense items. Key initiatives to reach our goals for EBITDA improvements include utilization of our Asian manufacturing locations, rationalizing our supply chain and continued leveraging of our infrastructure. APPLICATIONS Our products address a broad range of applications that we group into the following markets: Microelectronics, Materials Processing, OEM Components and Instrumentation and Scientific Research and Government Programs. Microelectronics Nowhere is the trend towards miniaturization more prevalent than in the Microelectronics market where smart phones, tablets, personal computers ("PC's"), televisions ("TV's") and "wearables" are driving advances in displays, integrated circuits and PCBs. In response to market demands and expectations, semiconductor and device manufacturers are continually seeking to improve their process and design technologies in order to manufacture smaller, more powerful and more reliable devices at lower cost. New laser applications and new laser technologies are a key element in delivering higher resolution and higher precision at lower manufacturing cost. We support three major markets in the microelectronics industry: (1) flat panel display ("FPD") manufacturing, (2) advanced packaging and interconnects ("API") and (3) semiconductor front-end ("SEMI"). Microelectronicsflat panel display manufacturing The high-volume consumer market is driving the production of FPDs in applications such as mobile phones, tablets, laptop computers, TVs and wearables. There are several types of established and emerging displays based on quite different technologies, including liquid crystal ("LCD") and organic light emitting diodes ("OLED"). Each of these technologies utilize laser applications due to the fact that lasers enable higher process speed, better yield, improved battery life, lower cost and/or superior display brightness and resolution. Several display types require a high-density pattern of silicon thin film transistors ("TFTs"). If this silicon is polycrystalline as opposed to amorphous, the display performance is greatly enhanced. In the past, these polysilicon layers could only be produced on expensive special glass at high temperatures. However, excimer-based processes, such as excimer laser annealing ("ELA") have allowed high-volume production of low-temperature polysilicon ("LTPS") on conventional glass substrates as well as flexible displays on plastic substrates. Our excimer lasers provide a unique solution for LTPS because they are the only industrial-grade excimer lasers optimized for this application. The current state-of-the-art product for this application is our excimer VYPER laser, which delivers over 1000W of power, enabling customers to scale to current Generation 5.5 & 6 substrates all the way up to Generation 8 sizes. These systems are integral to the manufacturing process on all leading LTPS-based smart phone displays, with the highest commercially available pixel densities of greater than 300 pixels per inch (ppi), with the current trends going to even higher ppi (>500 ppi) for high end smart phones, and hold the potential for deployment in tablet display and OLED TV manufacturing. Excimer based LTPS is also enabling a new generation of flexible OLED displays which have already seen some implementation in leading smart phones and wearables and are poised for rapid growth in the near future. Our AVIA, Rapid, Talisker, Monaco and DIAMOND CO 2 and CO lasers are also used in other production processes for FPDs. These processes include drilling, cutting, patterning, marking and yield improvement. Microelectronicsadvanced packaging and interconnects 6 Table of Contents After a wafer is patterned, there are then a host of other processes, referred to as back-end processing, which finally result in a packaged encapsulated silicon chip. Ultimately, these chips are then assembled into finished products. The advent of high-speed logic and high-memory content devices has caused chip manufacturers to look for alternative technologies to improve performance and lower process costs. In terms of materials, this search includes new types of materials, such as low-k and thinner silicon. Our AVIA, Rapid, Talisker, Monaco and Matrix lasers provide economical methods of cutting and scribing these wafers while delivering higher yields than traditional mechanical methods. There are similar trends in chip packaging and PCB manufacturing requiring more compact packaging and denser interconnects. In many cases, lasers present enabling technologies. For instance, lasers are now the only economically practical method for drilling microvias in chip substrates and in both rigid and flexible PCBs. These microvias are tiny interconnects that are essential for enabling high-density circuitry commonly used in smart phones, tablets and advanced computing systems. Our DIAMOND CO 2 and AVIA diode pumped solid state ("DPSS") lasers are the lasers of choice in this application. The ability of these lasers to operate at very high repetition rates translates into faster drilling speeds and increased throughput in microvia processing applications. In addition, multi-layer circuit boards require more flexible production methods than conventional printing technologies can offer, which has led to widespread adoption of laser direct imaging ("LDI"). Our Paladin laser is used for this application. Lasers have also become a valuable tool in high-brightness ("HB") light-emitting diode ("LED") manufacturing, improving LED performance and yield. LEDs have widespread adoption as the light source in all categories of LCD displays, from phones all the way to full size TVs and moving into general lighting. Our lasers are used in back-end processing of HB-LEDs. Microelectronicssemiconductor front-end The term "front-end" refers to the production of semiconductor devices which occurs prior to packaging. As semiconductor device geometries decrease in size, devices become increasingly susceptible to smaller defects during each phase of the manufacturing process and these defects can negatively impact yield. One of the semiconductor industry's responses to the increasing vulnerability of semiconductor devices to smaller defects has been to use defect detection and inspection techniques that are closely linked to the manufacturing process. For example, automated laser-based inspection systems are now used to detect and locate defects as small as 0.01 micron, which may not be observable by conventional optical microscopes. Detecting the presence of defects is only the first step in preventing their recurrence. After detection, defects must be examined in order to identify their size, shape and the process step in which the defect occurred. This examination is called defect classification. Identification of the sources of defects in the lengthy and complex semiconductor manufacturing process has become essential for maintaining high yield production. Semiconductor manufacturing has become an around-the-clock operation and it is important for products used for inspection, measurement and testing to be reliable and to have long lifetimes. Our Azure, Paladin and Excimer lasers are used to detect and characterize defects in semiconductor chips. Materials processing Lasers are widely accepted today in many important industrial manufacturing applications including cutting, welding, joining, drilling, perforating, and marking of metals and nonmetals. We supply high-power lasers for metal processing and low-to-medium power lasers for laser marking, nonmetals processing and precision micromachining. Our high power industrial laser systems are used for cutting, welding, cladding and hardening of metals, as well as other materials processing applications. Our Semiconductor business provides higher power arrays with powers in excess of 50 kilowatts through proprietary cooling and stacking technology. This unique technology provides the engine for both our Highlight direct diode systems as well as our Highlight multi-kilowatt class fiber lasers. Our differentiated fiber laser design offers our customers a higher level of integration and additional options for product serviceability. Our fiber lasers are used for metal cutting, cladding, welding and additive manufacturing applications. Complementing our high power solid state lasers is our industry leading DIAMOND E1000 CO 2 laser. This laser remains in high demand due to its high power, small size and completely sealed designall ideal for materials processing. With the broadest product portfolio in the laser industry, we offer solutions for almost any application on any material to our customers. Combining the high power Direct Diode, Fiber and CO 2 products with our META flatbed cutting tool provides a strong, compelling four-pronged approach to meeting the needs of our diverse high power materials processing customers. We are vertically integrated with world class diode and active fiber manufacturing, which makes us very well positioned to succeed in both the near and long term in the high power fiber laser market. 7 Table of Contents We also participate in the low to medium power area, including such applications as the cutting, drilling and joining of a host of materials using our DIAMOND CO and CO 2 lasers; Highlight fiber array product ("FAP") semiconductor lasers in OEM opportunities and direct end user applications with META cutting tools; applications including cutting, perforating and scoring of paper, thin metals and packaging materials; and various cutting and patterning applications in the textile, wood and sign industries. In the specific area of textiles and clothing, our DIAMOND lasers service older applications, such as cutting complex shapes in leather for footwear, as well as newer applications such as creating detailed fade patterns on designer denims. Laser marking and coding are generally considered part of the precision materials processing applications market for which we remain a leading supplier. The optimum choice of laser depends on the material being marked, whether it is a surface mark (engraved) or a sub-surface mark, and the specific economics of the application. Our DIAMOND J, C and GEM Series of CO 2 lasers provide many systems manufacturers with a reliable cost effective source for marking and engraving on non-metals. In addition, our Matrix and Helios product lines of reliable, compact and low-cost DPSS lasers provide an ideal solution for marking of other materials in high volume manufacturing. With our large portfolio of Ultrafast laser technology, we serve customers with a variety of laser micromachining solutions, including our Integrated Optics Systems group which will develop sub systems and new applications in the fast growing micro materials processing market. OEM components and instrumentation Instrumentation is one of our more mature commercial applications. Representative applications within this market include bio-instrumentation, medical OEMs, graphic arts and display and machine vision. We also support the laser-based instrumentation market with a range of laser-related components, including diode lasers for optical pumping. Our OEM component business includes sales to other, less integrated laser manufacturers participating in OEM markets such as materials processing, scientific, and medical. Bio-instrumentation Bio-instrumentation applications for lasers include bio-agent detection for point source and standoff detection of pathogens or other bio-toxins; confocal microscopy for biological imaging that allows researchers and clinicians to visualize cellular and subcellular structures and processes with an incredible amount of detail; DNA sequencing that provides automation and data acquisition rates that would be impossible by any other method; drug discoverygenomic and proteomic analyses that enable drug discovery to proceed at very high throughput rates; and flow cytometry for analyzing single cells or populations of cells in a heterogeneous mixture, including blood samples. Our OBIS, Flare, Galaxy, Sapphire, BioRay and Genesis lasers are used in several bio-instrumentation applications. Medical Therapy We sell a variety of components and lasers to medical laser companies in end-user applications such as ophthalmology, aesthetic, surgical, therapeutic and dentistry. Our DIAMOND series CO 2 lasers are widely used in ophthalmic, aesthetic and surgical markets. We have a leading position in Lasik and photorefractive keratectomy surgery methods with our ExciStar XS excimer laser platform. We also provide ultrafast lasers for use in cataract surgery, a growing applications space. The unique ability of our optically pumped semiconductor lasers ("OPSL") technology to match a wavelength to an application has led to the development of a high-power yellow (577nm) laser for the treatment of eye related diseases, such as Age Related Macular Degeneration and retinal diseases associated with diabetes. The 577nm wavelength was designed to match the peak in absorption of oxygenated hemoglobin thereby allowing treatment to occur at a lower power level, and thus reducing stress and heat-load placed on the eye with traditional green-based (530nm) solid state lasers. Other applications where our OBIS, Genesis and Sapphire series of lasers are used include the retinal scanning market in diagnostic imaging systems as well as new ground breaking in-vivo imaging. Scientific research and government programs We are widely recognized as a technology innovator and the scientific market has historically provided an ideal "test market" for our leading-edge innovations. These have included ultrafast lasers, DPSS lasers, continuous-wave ("CW") systems, excimer gas lasers and water-cooled ion gas lasers. Our portfolio of lasers that address the scientific research market is broad and includes our Chameleon, COMPexPro, Evolution, Fidelity, Legend, Libra, MBD, MBR, Monaco, Vitara, Mephisto, Mira and Verdi lasers. Many of the innovations and products pioneered in the scientific marketplace have become commercial successes for both our OEM customers and us. We have a large installed base of scientific lasers which are used in a wide range of applications spanning virtually every branch of science and engineering. These applications include biology and life science, engineering, physical chemistry and 8 Table of Contents physics. Most of these applications require the use of ultrafast lasers that enable the generation of pulses short enough to be measured in femto- or attoseconds (10 -15 to 10 -18 seconds). Because of these very short pulse durations, ultrafast lasers enable the study of fundamental physical and chemical processes with temporal resolution unachievable with any other tool. These lasers also deliver very high peak power and large bandwidths, which can be used to generate many exotic effects. Some of these are now finding their way into mainstream applications, such as microscopy or materials processing. The use of ultrafast lasers such as the Chameleon in microscopy is now a common occurrence in bio-imaging labs, and they have become a crucial tool in modern brain research. We recently released a new product called the Chameleon Discovery targeted to this market. FUTURE TRENDS Microelectronics Lasers are widely used in mass production microelectronics applications largely because they enable entirely new application capabilities that cannot be realized by any other known means. These laser-based fabrication and testing methods provide a level of precision, typically on a micrometer and nanometer level, that are unique, faster, are touch free, deliver superior end products, increase yields, and/or cut production costs. We anticipate this trend to continue, driven primarily by the increasing sophistication and miniaturization of consumer electronic goods and their convergence via the internet, resulting in increasing demand for better displays, more bandwidth and memory, and all packaged into devices which are lighter, thinner and consume less power. Although this market follows the macro-economic trends and carries inherent risks, we believe that we are well positioned to continue to capitalize on the current market trends and that we will see continued increased adoption of our solid-state, CO 2 , fiber, direct diode and excimer lasers, as all these lasers enable entirely new applications, performance improvements and reduced process costs. Excimer laser based LTPS is a key technology for producing high resolution OLED displays in general and flexible OLED displays in particular. We believe we are well positioned to take advantage of the rapid growth that is projected for OLED displays in smart phones and other mobile devices over the next several years with our Vyper and LineBeam systems. CO 2 , Avia, Matrix, Rapid, Talisker, Helios and direct diode lasers all seem aligned with the need for related FPD touch panel, film cutting, light guide technology, repair, frit welding, as well as sapphire and glass-cutting applications. The trend for thinner and lighter devices is impacting the glass substrates used in todays mobile devices requiring thinner glass with higher degrees of mechanical strength and scratch resistance. This trend also includes use of sapphire instead of glass. Mechanical means of cutting these glass and sapphire pieces are no longer adequate to meet future requirements and we expect lasers to play an increased role. Our CO, CO 2, Monaco and Rapid lasers are well positioned to take advantage of this trend. Semiconductor devices look set to continue Moore's Law, shrinking device geometries for at least another decade, as well as expanding vertically into new 3D structures. As a result we believe our many UV laser sources (such as Azure, Paladin, Avia, Rapid, ExiStar and Matrix) will continue to find increasing adoption, since their unique optical properties align well with the process demands of a nanometer scale world. The same lasers plus Monaco, Rapid FX, CO and CO 2 are also widely adopted for back end Advanced Packaging and Interconnect (API) applications. With dimension roadmaps showing a decade of dimension shrink on PCBs, interconnects, Silicon & LED scribe widths and wafer thickness, we believe that our portfolio of lasers aligns well with these demands as well as new processes that seem likely to be enabled by our lasers, to meet the increasing demands and decreasing tolerances of these markets. Materials processing The market for low to medium power CO 2 , solid state and semiconductor lasers used in industrial materials processing is very diverse. New product introductions such as our Diamond J-series CO 2 and CO lasers continue to support our growth in this area. These lasers represent a cost-effective manufacturing solution for cutting, joining, marking and engraving of non-metal materials including marking/coding, flat bed cutting, engraving, as well as the production of capital equipment for apparel and leather goods manufacturing. The market for kW class fiber lasers has seen strong growth in recent years, replacing legacy multi-kW CO 2 lasers in metal cutting and other applications. This trend will likely continue into the future. The favorable cost of ownership of high power diode and fiber lasers has expanded their use in a number of metal processing applications in addition to cutting. They have seen adoption in welding and brazing applications as well as newer growth areas in additive manufacturing like cladding and 3D printing. We believe we are well positioned to benefit from these large and growing markets with our line of kW fiber and diode lasers. 9 Table of Contents We have developed an expanded portfolio of lasers with a broad spectrum of wavelengths and power levels, enabling optimum solutions for virtually every metal and non-metal material type. At the same time, the higher reliability of these products has lowered the cost of ownership. OEM components and instrumentation The bio instrumentation market is on a steady path in the most important areas: microscopy, flow cytometry and DNA sequencing, which all are enjoying solid research funding on a worldwide basis with some local variations. In this field, our OPSL technology gives us differentiated products at a number of important wavelengths. This advantage coupled with strong focus on meeting our customers demands for more compact and cost effective sources has made us very successful and we expect that to continue. Our OPSL technology resulted in the first truly continuous wave solid-state UV laser which enables the use of UV in a clinical as well as a research environment. In the medical therapeutic area, we see solid business with several opportunities for growth. We supply excimer lasers used in refractive eye surgery and are actively involved in further developments in laser vision correction including the use of ultrafast lasers in applications such as laser cataract surgery where higher precision and use of advanced implants enable better and more reliable patient outcomes. Laser cataract surgery is still at a relatively early stage of adoption and is expected to see continued growth over the next several years. We also have opportunities in dental procedures for both hard and soft tissue ablation, with greatly improved patient comfort and outcome. In the area of photocoagulation, our Genesis OPSL yellow lasers are being used as the wavelength is particularly suitable for the treatment of blood vessels. In aesthetic laser procedures, we are an OEM supplier of CO 2 and semiconductor lasers to the major manufacturers of equipment used in the latest procedures in dermatology and hair removal. Scientific research and government programs Worldwide scientific funding seems very stable overall, with some regions growing and others just holding their current level. Bright spots include the strong push in neuroscience to better understand how the brain functions. Lasers play a very important role in imaging brain structure as well as tracking activity in animal brains using techniques such as optogenetics. We believe that our current and upcoming products are well positioned to take advantage of this exciting opportunity. In physics and chemistry applications, our recent product introductions of high performance and industrially hardened ultrafast products have been very well received. While this is a very competitive market, we expect that our new products will position us for growth. 10 Table of Contents MARKET APPLICATIONS We design, manufacture and market lasers, laser tools, precision optics and related accessories for a diverse group of customers. The following table lists our major markets and the Coherent technologies serving these markets.* Market Application Technology Microelectronics Flat panel display CO, CO 2 DPSS Excimer Ultrafast Semiconductor Advanced packaging and interconnects CO, CO 2 DPSS Excimer Ultrafast Semiconductor front-end CO 2 DPSS OPSL Excimer Ion Materials processing Metal cutting, drilling, joining, cladding, surface treatment and additive manufacturing CO 2 Fiber Semiconductor Laser Machine Tools Ultrafast Laser marking and coding CO 2 DPSS Ultrafast Non-metal cutting, drilling CO, CO 2 DPSS Ultrafast Excimer Semiconductor Laser Machine Tools OEM components and instrumentation Bio-Instrumentation DPSS OPSL Semiconductor Graphic arts and display OPSL CO 2 Medical therapy (OEM) CO, CO 2 DPSS Ultrafast Excimer OPSL Semiconductor Scientific research and government programs All scientific applications DPSS Excimer OPSL Ultrafast *Coherent sells its laser measurement and control products into a number of these applications. In addition to products we provide, we invest routinely in the core technologies needed to create substantial differentiation for our products in the marketplace. Our semiconductor, crystal, fiber and large form factor optics facilities all maintain an external customer base providing value-added solutions. We direct significant engineering efforts to produce unique solutions targeted for internal consumption. These investments, once integrated into our broader product portfolio, provide our customers with uniquely differentiated solutions and the opportunity to substantially enhance the performance, reliability and capability of the products we offer. 11 Table of Contents TECHNOLOGIES Diode-pumped solid-state lasers DPSS lasers use semiconductor lasers to pump a crystal to produce a laser beam. By changing the energy, optical components and the types of crystals used in the laser, different wavelengths and types of laser light can be produced. The efficiency, reliability, longevity and relatively low cost of DPSS lasers make them ideally suited for a wide range of OEM and end-user applications, particularly those requiring 24-hour operations. Our DPSS systems are compact and self-contained sealed units. Unlike conventional tools and other lasers, our DPSS lasers require minimal maintenance since they do not have internal controls or components that require adjusting and cleaning to maintain consistency. They are also less affected by environmental changes in temperature and humidity, which can alter alignment and inhibit performance in many systems. We manufacture a variety of types of DPSS lasers for different applications including semiconductor inspection; advanced packaging and interconnects; laser pumping; spectroscopy; bio-agent detection; DNA sequencing; drug discovery; flow cytometry; forensics; computer-to-plate printing; entertainment lighting (display); medical; rapid prototyping and marking, welding, engraving, cutting and drilling. Fiber lasers Fiber lasers use semiconductor lasers to pump a doped optical fiber to produce a laser beam. The unique features of a fiber laser make them suitable for producing high power, continuous wave laser beams. We introduced a multi kilowatt fiber laser platform in fiscal 2015. Our fiber laser design has several unique features including a modular design for improved serviceability and diode bar based pumping. Due to packaging efficiency, diode bars reduce the overall cost of a fiber laser. Some of the most critical components inside a fiber laser include the gain fiber itself and the diodes providing the pump power. We are well positioned as a fiber laser supplier since we are vertically integrated with respect to these key technologies; we use diode bars and fiber manufactured in-house. We plan to continue to drive cost reduction in our diode laser pumps and demonstrate the scalability of the platform by moving up the power scale into the multi kilowatt regime. This platform will address the large growing high power metal cutting and joining market. Gas lasers (CO, CO 2 , Excimer, Ion) The breadth of our gas laser portfolio is industry leading, encompassing CO, CO 2 , excimer and ion laser technologies. Gas lasers derive their name from the use of one or more gases as a lasing medium. They collectively span an extremely diverse and useful emission range, from the very deep ultraviolet to the far infrared. This diverse range of available wavelengths, coupled with high optical output power, and an abundance of other attractive characteristics, makes gas lasers extremely useful and popular for a variety of microelectronics, scientific, medical therapeutic and materials processing applications. Optically Pumped Semiconductor Lasers ("OPSL") Our OPSL platform is a surface emitting semiconductor laser that is energized or pumped by a semiconductor laser. The use of optical pumping circumvents inherent power scaling limitations of electrically pumped lasers, enabling very high powered devices. A wide range of wavelengths can be achieved by varying the semiconductor materials used in the device and changing the frequency of the laser beam using techniques common in solid state lasers. The platform leverages high reliability technologies developed for telecommunications and produces a compact, rugged, high power, single-mode laser. Our OPSL products are well suited to a wide range of applications, including the bio-instrumentation, medical therapeutics and graphic arts and display markets. We continue to expand our ultraviolet version of the OPSL platform called the Genesis, which was developed for the bio-instrumentation market. Semiconductor lasers High power edge emitting semiconductor diode lasers use the same principles as widely-used CD and DVD lasers, but produce significantly higher power levels. The advantages of this type of laser include smaller size, longer life, enhanced reliability and greater efficiency. We manufacture a wide range of discrete semiconductor laser products with wavelengths ranging from 650nm to over 1000nm and output powers ranging from 1W to over 100W, with highly integrated products in the kW range. These products are available in a variety of industry standard form factors including the following: bare die, packaged and fiber coupled single emitters and bars, monolithic stacks and fully integrated modules with microprocessor controlled units that contain power supplies and active coolers. Our semiconductor lasers are used internally as the pump lasers in DPSS, fiber and OPSL products that are manufactured by us, as well as a wide variety of external medical, OEM, military and industrial applications, including aesthetic (hair 12 Table of Contents removal, cosmetic dentistry), graphic arts, counter measures, rangefinders, target designators, cladding, hardening and plastic welding. Ultrafast ("UF") Lasers Ultrafast lasers are lasers generating light pulses with durations of a few femtoseconds (10 -15 seconds) to a few tens of picoseconds (10 -11 seconds). These types of lasers are used for medical, advanced microelectronics and materials processing applications as well as scientific research. UF laser oscillators generate a train of pulses at 50-100 MHz, with peak powers of tens of kilowatts, and UF laser amplifiers generate pulses at 1-2000 kHz, with peak powers up to several Terawatts. The extremely short duration of UF laser pulses enables temporally resolving fast events like the dynamics of atoms or electrons. In addition, the high peak power enables so-called non-linear effects where several photons can be absorbed by a molecule at the same time. This type of process enables applications like multi-photon excitation microscopy or UF ablation of materials with high precision and minimal thermal damage. The use of our ultrafast lasers in applications outside science has been growing rapidly over the last several years, particularly in microelectronics and materials processing applications. SALES AND MARKETING We primarily market our products in the United States through a direct sales force. We sell internationally through direct sales personnel located in Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, China, South Korea, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, as well as through independent representatives in certain jurisdictions around the world. Our foreign sales are made principally to customers in South Korea, Japan, Germany, China and other European and Asia-Pacific countries. Foreign sales accounted for 76% of our net sales in fiscal 2016 , 73% of our net sales in fiscal 2015 and 74% of our net sales in fiscal 2014 . Sales made to independent representatives and distributors are generally priced in U.S. dollars. A large portion of foreign sales that we make directly to customers are priced in local currencies and are therefore subject to currency exchange fluctuations. Foreign sales are also subject to other normal risks of foreign operations such as protective tariffs, export and import controls and political instability. We had one customer, Advanced Process Systems Corporation, who contributed more than 10% of revenue during fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . We had another major customer, Japanese Steel Works, Ltd., who contributed more than 10% of revenue during fiscal 2016 . To support our sales efforts we maintain and continue to invest in a number of applications centers around the world, where our applications experts work closely with customers on developing laser processes to meet their manufacturing needs. The applications span a wide range, but are mostly centered around the materials processing and microelectronics markets. Locations include several facilities in the US, Europe and Asia. We maintain customer support and field service staff in major markets within the United States, Europe, Japan, China, South Korea, Taiwan and other Asia-Pacific countries. This organization works closely with customers, customer groups and independent representatives in servicing equipment, training customers to use our products and exploring additional applications of our technologies. We typically provide parts and service warranties on our lasers, laser-based systems, optical and laser components and related accessories and services. Warranties on some of our products and services may be shorter or longer than one year. Warranty reserves, as reflected on our consolidated balance sheets, have generally been sufficient to cover product warranty repair and replacement costs. The weighted average warranty period covered is approximately 15 months. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We are constantly developing and introducing new products as well as improving and refining existing products to better serve the markets we participate in. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends. Our efforts are also focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make valuable contributions. Research and development expenditures for fiscal 2016 were $81.8 million , or 9.5% of net sales compared to $81.5 million , or 10.2% of net sales for fiscal 2015 and $79.1 million , or 10.0% of net sales for fiscal 2014 . We work closely with customers, both individually and through our sponsored seminars, to develop products to meet customer application and performance needs. In addition, we are working with leading research and educational institutions to develop new photonics based solutions. 13 Table of Contents MANUFACTURING Strategies One of our core manufacturing strategies is to tightly control our supply of key parts, components, sub-assemblies and outsourcing partners. We primarily utilize vertical integration when we have proprietary internal capabilities that are not cost-effectively available from external sources. We believe this is essential to maintain high quality products and enable rapid development and deployment of new products and technologies. We provide customers with 24-hour technical expertise and quality that is International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") certified at our principal manufacturing sites. Committed to quality and customer satisfaction, we design and produce many of our own components and sub-assemblies in order to retain quality and performance control. We have also outsourced certain components, sub-assemblies and finished goods where we can maintain our high quality standards while improving our cost structure. As part of our strategy to increase our market share and customer support in Asia as well as our continuing efforts to manage costs, we have transferred the production of additional products into both of our Singapore and Malaysia factories. In addition, we expanded our repair activities in our China and South Korea operations and also opened a tube refurbishment manufacturing site in South Korea. This has allowed us to reduce service response time and inventories, providing benefits to us and to our customers. We have also established an International Procurement Office in Singapore and have been increasing our sourcing of materials from Asia to reduce material costs on a global basis. In fiscal 2015, we increased our vertical integration capabilities with the asset acquisition of the Tinsley Optics business from L-3 Communications Corporation. We have designed and implemented proprietary manufacturing tools, equipment and techniques in an effort to provide products that differentiate us from our competitors. These proprietary manufacturing techniques are utilized in a number of our product lines including our gas laser production, crystal growth, beam alignment as well as the wafer growth for our semiconductor and optically pumped semiconductor laser product family. Raw materials or sub-components required in the manufacturing process are generally available from several sources. However, we currently purchase several key components and materials, including exotic materials, crystals and optics, used in the manufacture of our products from sole source or limited source suppliers. We also purchase assemblies and turnkey solutions from contract manufacturers based on our proprietary designs. We rely on our own production and design capability to manufacture and specify certain strategic components, crystals, fibers, semiconductor lasers, lasers and laser based systems. For a discussion of the importance to our business of, and the risks attendant to sourcing, see "Risk Factors" in item 1A "We depend on sole source or limited source suppliers, both internal and external, for some of our key components and materials, including exotic materials, certain cutting-edge optics and crystals, in our products, which make us susceptible to supply shortages or price fluctuations that could adversely affect our business." Operations Our products are manufactured at our sites in Santa Clara, Sunnyvale and Richmond, California; Wilsonville, Oregon; East Hanover, New Jersey; Bloomfield, Connecticut; Salem, New Hampshire; Lbeck, Germany; Gttingen, Germany; Kaiserslautern, Germany; Glasgow, Scotland; YongIn-Si, South Korea; Kallang Sector, Singapore; and Penang, Malaysia. In addition, we also use contract manufacturers for the production of certain assemblies and turnkey solutions. Our ion gas lasers, a portion of our DPSS lasers that are used in microelectronics, scientific research and materials processing applications, semiconductor lasers, OPS lasers, fiber lasers and ultrafast scientific lasers are manufactured at our Santa Clara, California site. Our laser diode module products, laser instrumentation products, test and measurement equipment products are manufactured in Wilsonville, Oregon. We manufacture exotic crystals in East Hanover, New Jersey and both active and passive fibers are manufactured in our Salem, New Hampshire facility. Our CO 2 and CO gas lasers are manufactured in Bloomfield, Connecticut. We manufacture our LMT products in Bloomfield, Connecticut and Singapore. We manufacture a portion of our DPSS lasers used in microelectronics and OEM components and instrumentation applications in Lbeck, Germany. We manufacture a portion of our DPSS lasers used in microelectronics, OEM components and instrumentation and materials processing applications in Kaiserslautern, Germany. Our excimer gas laser products are manufactured in Gttingen, Germany. We refurbish excimer tubes at our manufacturing site in South Korea. We manufacture the fiber-based lasers and a portion of our DPSS lasers used in microelectronics and scientific research applications in Glasgow, Scotland. Our facility in Sunnyvale, California grows the aluminum-free materials that are incorporated into our semiconductor lasers. Our facility in Richmond, California manufactures large form factor optics for our Linebeam excimer laser annealing systems. We have transferred several products and subassemblies for manufacture at our Singapore and Malaysia facilities and are continuing to transfer additional product manufacturing to Singapore and Malaysia as part of our worldwide manufacturing cost reduction strategy. 14 Table of Contents INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. As of October 1, 2016 , we held approximately 565 U.S. and foreign patents, which expire from 2016 through 2032 (depending on the payment of maintenance fees) and we have approximately 133 additional pending patent applications that have been filed. The issued patents cover various products in all of the major markets that we serve. For a discussion of the importance to our business of, and the risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A "We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology which could adversely affect our competitive advantage" and "We may, in the future, be subject to claims or litigation from third parties, for claims of infringement of their proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors or other rights holders. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel. Adverse resolution of litigation may harm our operating results or financial condition." COMPETITION Competition in the various photonics markets in which we provide products is very intense. We compete against a number of large public and private companies including CVI Melles Griot, Novanta Inc., IPG Photonics Corporation, Lumentum Holdings Inc., MKS Instruments, Inc., and Trumpf GmbH, as well as other smaller companies. We compete globally based on our broad product offering, reliability, cost, and performance advantages for the widest range of commercial and scientific research applications. Other considerations by our customers include warranty, global service and support and distribution. BACKLOG At fiscal 2016 year-end, our backlog of orders scheduled for shipment (within one year) was $605.3 million compared to $309.5 million at fiscal 2015 year-end. By segment, backlog for SLS was $515.2 million and $219.3 million , respectively, at fiscal 2016 and 2015 year-ends. Backlog for CLC was $90.1 million and $90.2 million , respectively, at fiscal 2016 and 2015 year-ends. The increase in SLS backlog from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2016 year-end is primarily due to timing of large excimer laser annealing system orders, net of shipments, for the flat panel display market, which explains the increase in overall company backlog as well. Orders used to compute backlog are generally cancelable and, depending on the notice period, are subject to rescheduling by our customers without substantial penalties. Historically, we have not experienced a significant rate of cancellation or rescheduling, though we cannot guarantee that the rate of cancellations or rescheduling will not increase in the future. SEASONALITY We have historically experienced decreased revenue in the first fiscal quarter compared to other quarters in our fiscal year due to the impact of time off and business closures at our facilities and those of many of our customers due to year-end holidays. For example over the past 10 years we have noted, excluding certain recovery years, our first fiscal quarter revenues have ranged 2%-12% below the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal years. This historical pattern should not be considered a reliable indicator of the Company's future net sales or financial performance. EMPLOYEES As of fiscal 2016 year-end, we had 2,787 employees. Approximately 396 of our employees are involved in research and development; 1,786 of our employees are involved in operations, manufacturing, service and quality assurance; and 605 of our employees are involved in sales, order administration, marketing, finance, information technology, general management and other administrative functions. Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain employees. We face competition in this regard from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. ACQUISITIONS On November 7, 2016, we acquired Rofin, one of the world's leading developers and manufacturers of high-performance industrial laser sources and laser-based solutions and components. See "Recent Developments" for further discussion of the acquisition and the Credit Agreement. In July 2015, we acquired certain assets of Raydiance, Inc. ("Raydiance") for approximately $5.0 million, excluding transaction costs. Raydiance manufactured complete tools and lasers for ultrafast processing systems and subsystems in the precision micromachining processing market. The Raydiance assets have been included in our Specialty Lasers and Systems segment. 15 Table of Contents In July 2015, we acquired the assets and certain liabilities of the Tinsley Optics ("Tinsley") business from L-3 Communications Corporation for approximately $4.3 million, excluding transaction costs. Tinsley is a specialized manufacturer of high precision optical components and subsystems sold primarily in the aerospace and defense industry. Tinsley manufactures the large form factor optics for our excimer laser annealing systems. The Tinsley assets have been included in our Specialty Lasers and Systems segment. Please refer to "Note 3. Business Combinations" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 15 of this annual report for further discussion of recent acquisitions completed. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Environmental regulation Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, handling and disposal of regulated materials, chemicals, various radioactive materials and certain waste products. In the United States, we are subject to the federal regulation and control of the Environmental Protection Agency. Comparable authorities are involved in other countries. Such rules are subject to change by the governing agency and we monitor those changes closely. We expect all operations to meet the legal and regulatory environmental requirements and believe that compliance with those regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive and financial position. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of such materials comply with the standards required by federal and state laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident involving such materials, we could be liable for damages and such liability could exceed the amount of our liability insurance coverage and the resources of our business. We may face the potential of increasing complexity in our product designs and procurement operations due to the evolving nature of product compliance standards. Those standards may impact the material composition of our products entering specific markets. Such regulations went into effect in the European Union ("EU") in 2006, (The Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS)) and 2007 (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH)), and China in 2007 (Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products Regulation (China-RoHS)), and the US Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. Furthermore, we could face costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. Beginning in 2006, the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive made producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. Similar laws are now pending in various jurisdictions around the world, including the United States. Environmental liabilities Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations governing the environment, including the discharge of pollutants and the management and disposal of hazardous substances. As a result of our historic as well as on-going operations, we could incur substantial costs, including remediation costs. The costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. Our accruals for such costs and liabilities may not be adequate because the estimates on which the accruals are based depend on a number of factors including the nature of the matter, the complexity of the site, site geology, the nature and extent of contamination, the type of remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other Potentially Responsible Parties (PRPs) at multi-party sites and the number and financial viability of other PRPs. We further discuss the impact of environmental regulation under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A "Compliance or the failure to comply with current and future environmental regulations could cause us significant expense." SEGMENT INFORMATION We are organized into two operating segments: SLS and CLC. This segmentation reflects the go-to-market strategies for various products and markets. While both segments deliver cost-effective photonics solutions, SLS develops and manufactures configurable, advanced performance products largely serving the microelectronics, scientific research and government programs and OEM components and instrumentation markets. The size and complexity of many of the SLS products require service to be performed at the customer site by factory-trained field service engineers. CLC focuses on higher volume products that are offered in set configurations. The product architectures are designed for easy exchange at the point of use such that substantially all product service and repairs are based upon advanced replacement and depot (i.e., factory) repair. CLC's primary markets include materials processing, OEM components and instrumentation and microelectronics. We have identified SLS and CLC as operating segments for which discrete financial information was available. Both units have dedicated engineering, manufacturing, product business management and product line management functions. A 16 Table of Contents small portion of our outside revenue is attributable to projects and recently developed products for which a segment has not yet been determined. The associated direct and indirect costs are presented in the category of Corporate and other, along with other corporate costs. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES Financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations for fiscal years 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , is set forth in Note 15, "Segment and Geographic Information" of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 15 of this annual report. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the followings risks when considering an investment in our Common Stock. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under Forward-Looking Statements and the risk of our businesses described elsewhere in this annual report. Additionally, these risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO THE MERGER WITH ROFIN We may not be able to integrate the business of Rofin successfully with our own or realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. We will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices with those of Rofin. Potential difficulties that we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine our business with Rofin in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the full synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the merger; complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating products, services, complex and different information technology systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a cohesive manner; and potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays related to the merger and the integration of Rofin, including as a result of the requirement for holding separate Rofins business located in Hull, England. In addition, we have operated independently prior to the merger and it is possible that the integration process following the merger could result in: diversion of the attention of our management; and the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, prior to the merger, Rofins business faced risks and uncertainties, including those faced by our business and identified below. Rofins business may not meet future expectations due to these factors despite our integration efforts. Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the merger. Following the merger, the size of the business of the combined company has increased significantly. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected synergies and benefits anticipated from the merger. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expenses related to the merger with and the integration of Rofin. We have and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with the merger and the integration of Rofin. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that will need to be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing, marketing and employee benefits. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. These integration expenses could result in significant charges to earnings which we cannot currently quantify. 18 Table of Contents Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting to the Rofin acquisition may adversely affect our results of operations. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we will account for the Rofin acquisition using the purchase method of accounting, which will result in charges to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock following completion of the acquisition. Under the purchase method of accounting, we will allocate the total purchase price of Rofins net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over net tangible and identifiable intangible assets will be recorded as goodwill. We will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. These depreciation, amortization and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. Our indebtedness following the merger is substantially greater than our indebtedness prior to the merger. This increased level of indebtedness could adversely affect us, including by decreasing our business flexibility, and will increase our borrowing costs. In November 2016 we entered into the Credit Agreement which provides for a 670 million Euro term loan, all of which has been drawn, and a $100 million revolving credit facility, under which a 10 million Euro letter of credit has been issued. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future by accessing the revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement and/or entering into new financing arrangements. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal of our current indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations and the ongoing interest rate environment. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants, including covenants regarding the payment of taxes and other obligations, maintenance of insurance, reporting requirements and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and negative covenants, including covenants limiting the ability of us and our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur debt, grant liens, make investments, make certain restricted payments, transact with affiliates, and sell assets. The Credit Agreement also requires us and our subsidiaries to maintain a senior secured net leverage ratio as of the last day of each fiscal quarter of less of than or equal to 3.50 to 1.00. The Credit Agreement contains customary events of default that include, among other things, payment defaults, cross defaults with certain other indebtedness, violation of covenants, inaccuracy of representations and warranties in any material respect, change in control of the Company and the Borrower, judgment defaults, and bankruptcy and insolvency events. If an event of default exists, the lenders may require the immediate payment of all Obligations, as defined in the Credit Agreement, and may exercise certain other rights and remedies provided for under the Credit Agreement, the other loan documents and applicable law. The acceleration of such obligations is automatic upon the occurrence of a bankruptcy and insolvency event of default. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources or we will be able to arrange financing to repay our borrowings at such time. Our substantially increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio following completion of the merger in comparison to that prior to the merger will have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and will increase our borrowing costs. In addition, the amount of cash required to service our increased indebtedness levels and thus the demands on our cash resources will be greater than the amount of cash flows required to service our indebtedness or that of Rofin individually prior to the merger. The increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce funds available for our investments in product development as well as capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. We may not be able to divest the Rofin business located in Hull, England on favorable terms. On October 26, 2016, the European Commission approved under the EU Merger Regulation our acquisition of Rofin, conditional on the divestment of Rofins low power CO 2 laser business based in Hull, United Kingdom (the Hull Business) after the closing of the acquisition. We are required to hold the Hull Business separate until such time as it is divested. During fiscal years 2013 through 2015, the Hull Business had annual revenues of approximately 23-25 million British Pound Sterling and, accordingly, we will not have the revenue from the Hull Business once it is sold. If we are unable to successfully timely divest the Hull Business or if the European Commission does not approve a proposed sale thereof, then a divestiture trustee may be appointed by the European Commission and the terms for any sale of the Hull Business will be at the discretion of such trustee. During the period of time in which we are holding the Hull Business separate, the conditions for such structure may be a distraction on certain members of our senior management team. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND INDUSTRY TRENDS 19 Table of Contents Our operating results, including net sales, net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA in dollars and as a percentage of net sales, as well as our stock price have varied in the past, and our future operating results, including those results from the newly acquired Rofin business, will continue to be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations based upon numerous factors, including those discussed in this Item 1A and throughout this report. Our stock price will continue to be subject to daily variations as well. Our future operating results and stock price may not follow any past trends or meet our guidance and expectations. Our net sales and operating results, such as adjusted EBITDA percentage, net income (loss) and operating expenses, and our stock price have varied in the past and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year in the future. We believe a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, could cause these variations and make them difficult to predict, including: general economic uncertainties in the macroeconomic and local economies facing us, our customers and the markets we serve; fluctuations in demand for our products or downturns in the industries that we serve; the ability of our suppliers, both internal and external, to produce and deliver components and parts, including sole or limited source components, in a timely manner, in the quantity, quality and prices desired; the timing of receipt and conversion of bookings to net sales; the concentration of a significant amount of our backlog, and resultant net sales, with a few customers; rescheduling of shipments or cancellation of orders by our customers; fluctuations in our product mix; the ability of our customers' other suppliers to provide sufficient material to support our customers' products; currency fluctuations and stability, in particular the Euro, the Japanese Yen, the South Korean Won, the Chinese RMB and the US dollar as compared to other currencies; commodity pricing; introductions of new products and product enhancements by our competitors, entry of new competitors into our markets, pricing pressures and other competitive factors; our ability to develop, introduce, manufacture and ship new and enhanced products in a timely manner without defects; our ability to successfully expand our manufacturing capacity in Gttingen, Germany and add optics fabrication capacity at our site in Richmond, California; our ability to manage our manufacturing capacity and that of our suppliers; our reliance on contract manufacturing; the rate of market acceptance of our new products; the ability of our customers to pay for our products; expenses associated with acquisition-related activities; seasonal sales trends; access to applicable credit markets by us, our customers and their end customers; delays or reductions in customer purchases of our products in anticipation of the introduction of new and enhanced products by us or our competitors; our ability to control expenses; the level of capital spending of our customers; potential excess and/or obsolescence of our inventory; 20 Table of Contents costs and timing of adhering to current and developing governmental regulations and reviews relating to our products and business; costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets; our ability to meet our expectations and forecasts and those of public market analysts and investors; the availability of research funding by governments with regard to our customers in the scientific business, such as universities; continued government spending on defense-related projects where we are a subcontractor; maintenance of supply relating to products sold to the government on terms which we would prefer not to accept; changes in policy, interpretations, or challenges to the allowability of costs incurred under government cost accounting standards; damage to our reputation as a result of coverage in social media, Internet blogs or other media outlets; managing our and other parties' compliance with contracts in multiple languages and jurisdictions; managing our internal and third party sales representatives and distributors, including compliance with all applicable laws; impact of government economic policies on macroeconomic conditions; costs and expenses from litigation; costs associated with designing around or payment of licensing fees associated with issued patents in our fields of business; government support of alternative energy industries, such as solar; negative impacts related to the recent Brexit vote by the United Kingdom, particularly with regard to sales from our Glasgow, Scotland facility to other jurisdictions and purchases of supplies from outside the United Kingdom by such facility; the future impact of legislation, rulemaking, and changes in accounting, tax, defense procurement, or export policies; and distraction of management related to acquisition or divestment activities. In addition, we often recognize a substantial portion of our sales in the last month of our fiscal quarters. Our expenses for any given quarter are typically based on expected sales and if sales are below expectations in any given quarter, the adverse impact of the shortfall on our operating results may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall. We also base our manufacturing on our forecasted product mix for the quarter. If the actual product mix varies significantly from our forecast, we may not be able to fill some orders during that quarter, which would result in delays in the shipment of our products. Accordingly, variations in timing of sales, particularly for our higher priced, higher margin products, can cause significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Due to these and other factors, such as varying product mix, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our historical operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any quarter or year as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters and years may be below public market analysts' or investors' expectations, which would likely cause the price of our stock to fall. In addition, over the past several years, U.S. and global equity markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock prices of many technology companies both in and outside our industry. There has not always been a direct correlation between this volatility and the performance of particular companies subject to these stock price fluctuations. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions or investors' concerns regarding the credibility of corporate financial statements, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock in the future. We depend on sole source or limited source suppliers, both internal and external, for some of our key components and materials, including exotic materials, certain cutting-edge optics and crystals, in our products, which make us susceptible to 21 Table of Contents supply shortages or price fluctuations that could adversely affect our business, particularly our ability to meet our customers' delivery requirements. We currently purchase several key components and materials used in the manufacture of our products from sole source or limited source suppliers, both internal and external. In particular, from time-to-time our customers require us to ramp up production and/or accelerate delivery schedules of our products. Our key suppliers may not have the ability to increase their production in line with our customers demands. This can become acute during times of high growth in our customers businesses. Our failure to timely receive these key components and materials would likely cause delays in the shipment of our products, which would likely negatively impact both our customers and our business. Some of these suppliers are relatively small private companies that may discontinue their operations at any time and which may be particularly susceptible to prevailing economic conditions. Some of our suppliers are located in regions which may be susceptible to natural disasters, such as the flooding in Thailand and the earthquake, tsunami and resulting nuclear disaster in Japan and severe flooding and power loss in the Eastern part of the United States in recent years. Some may be vulnerable to man-made disasters, such as the recent worldwide shortage of neon gas as a result of the conflict in Ukraine. We typically purchase our components and materials through purchase orders or agreed upon terms and conditions and we do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. For certain long-lead time supplies or in order to lock-in pricing, we may be obligated to place purchase orders which are not cancelable or otherwise assume liability for a large amount of the ordered supplies, which limit our ability to adjust down our inventory liability in the event of market downturns or other customer cancellations or rescheduling of their purchase orders for our products. Some of our products, particularly in the flat panel display industry, require designs and specifications which are at the cutting-edge of available technologies. Our and our customers' designs and specifications frequently change to meet rapidly evolving market demands. Accordingly, certain of our products require components and supplies which may be technologically difficult and unpredictable to manufacture. By their very nature, these types of components may only be available by a single supplier. These characteristics further pressure the timely delivery of such components. We may fail to obtain these supplies in a timely manner in the future. We may experience difficulty identifying alternative sources of supply for certain components used in our products and may have to incur expenses and management distraction in assisting our current and future suppliers to meet our and our customers' technical requirements. We would experience further delays while identifying, evaluating and testing the products of these potential alternative suppliers. Furthermore, financial or other difficulties faced by these suppliers or significant changes in demand for these components or materials could limit their availability. We continue to consolidate our supply base and move supplier locations. When we transition locations we may increase our inventory of such products as a safety stock during the transition, which may cause the amount of inventory reflected on our balance sheet to increase. Additionally, many of our customers rely on sole source suppliers. In the event of a disruption of our customers' supply chain, orders from our customers could decrease or be delayed. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components or materials, or the inability to obtain these components and materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, or our failure to properly manage these moves, would impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. We have historically relied exclusively on our own production capability to manufacture certain strategic components, crystals, semiconductor lasers, lasers and laser-based systems and recently acquired the capability to manufacture certain large format optics. Because we manufacture, package and test these components, products and systems at our own facilities, and such components, products and systems are not readily available from other sources, any interruption in manufacturing would adversely affect our business. Since many of our products have lengthy qualification periods, our ability to introduce multiple suppliers for parts may be limited. In addition, our failure to achieve adequate manufacturing yields of these items at our manufacturing facilities may materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We participate in the microelectronics market, which requires significant research and development expenses to develop and maintain products and a failure to achieve market acceptance for our products could have a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations. The microelectronics market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions, the volatility of product supply and demand, changing customer requirements and evolving industry standards. The nature of this market requires significant research and development expenses to participate, with substantial resources invested in advance of material sales of our products to our customers in this market. Additionally, our product offerings may become obsolete given the frequent introduction of alternative technologies. In the event either our customers' or our products fail to gain market acceptance, or the microelectronics market fails to grow, it would likely have a significant negative effect on our business and results of operations. We participate in the flat panel display market, which has a relatively limited number of end customer manufacturers. Our backlog, timing of net sales and results of operations could be negatively impacted in the event our customers reschedule or cancel orders. 22 Table of Contents In the flat panel display market, there are a relatively limited number of manufacturers who are the end customers for our annealing products. In fiscal 2016, Advanced Process Systems Corporation, an integrator in the flat panel display market based in South Korea, and Japanese Steel Works, Ltd., an integrator in the flat panel display market based in Japan, contributed more than 10% of our revenue. Given macroeconomic conditions, varying consumer demand and technical process limitations at manufacturers, our customers may seek to reschedule or cancel orders. This was recently seen with a requested expedited shipment of a Linebeam 1500 product for our third fiscal quarter of 2015, which delivery date was then changed at the customers request back to its originally scheduled date in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2015. These larger flat panel-related systems have large average selling prices. Any rescheduling or canceling of such orders by our customers will likely have a significant impact on our quarterly or annual net sales and results of operations and could negatively impact inventory values and backlog. Additionally, challenges in meeting evolving technological requirements for these complex products by us and our suppliers could also result in delays in shipments, rescheduled or canceled orders by our customers. This could negatively impact our backlog, timing of net sales and results of operations. As of October 1, 2016 , flat panel display systems represented 63% of our backlog, compared to 32% at October 3, 2015. Since our backlog includes higher average selling price flat panel display systems, any delays or cancellation of shipments could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Some of our laser systems are complex in design and may contain defects that are not detected until deployed by our customers, which could increase our costs and reduce our net sales. Lasers and laser systems are inherently complex in design and require ongoing regular maintenance. The manufacture of our lasers, laser products and systems involves a highly complex and precise process. As a result of the technological complexity of our products, in particular the flat panel annealing systems, changes in our or our suppliers' manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve and maintain our projected yields or product reliability, our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships would be adversely affected. We provide warranties on a majority of our product sales, and reserves for estimated warranty costs are recorded during the period of sale. The determination of such reserves requires us to make estimates of failure rates and expected costs to repair or replace the products under warranty. We typically establish warranty reserves based on historical warranty costs for each product line. If actual return rates and/or repair and replacement costs differ significantly from our estimates, adjustments to cost of sales may be required in future periods which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated, including under the end user's peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors, which may contain defects. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to identify and fix defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things: loss of customers or orders; increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses; damage to our brand reputation; failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; diversion of development, engineering and manufacturing resources; and legal actions by our customers and/or their end users. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued volatility in the advanced packaging and semiconductor manufacturing markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our net sales in the microelectronics market depends on the demand for our products by advanced packaging applications and semiconductor equipment companies. These markets have historically been characterized by sudden and severe cyclical variations in product supply and demand, which have often severely affected the demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, including laser-based tools and systems. The timing, severity and duration of these market cycles are difficult to predict, and we may not be able to respond effectively to these cycles. The continuing uncertainty in these markets severely limits our ability to predict our business prospects or financial results in these markets. 23 Table of Contents During industry downturns, our net sales from these markets may decline suddenly and significantly. Our ability to rapidly and effectively reduce our cost structure in response to such downturns is limited by the fixed nature of many of our expenses in the near term and by our need to continue our investment in next-generation product technology and to support and service our products. In addition, due to the relatively long manufacturing lead times for some of the systems and subsystems we sell to these markets, we may incur expenditures or purchase raw materials or components for products we cannot sell. Accordingly, downturns in the semiconductor capital equipment market may materially harm our operating results. Conversely, when upturns in these markets occur, we must be able to rapidly and effectively increase our manufacturing capacity to meet increases in customer demand that may be extremely rapid, and if we fail to do so we may lose business to our competitors and our relationships with our customers may be harmed. We are exposed to risks associated with worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties which could negatively impact demand for our products and results of operations. Volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, depressed consumer confidence, government economic policies, negative economic conditions, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending could negatively impact demand for our products. In particular, it is difficult to develop and implement strategy, sustainable business models and efficient operations, as well as effectively manage supply chain relationships in the face of such conditions including uncertainty regarding the ability of some of our suppliers to continue operations and provide us with uninterrupted supply flow. Our ability to maintain our research and development investments in our broad product offerings may be adversely impacted in the event that our sales decline and do not increase in the future. Spending and the timing thereof by consumers and businesses have a significant impact on our results and, where such spending is delayed or canceled, it could have a material negative impact on our operating results. Current global economic conditions remain uncertain and challenging. Weakness in our end markets could negatively impact our net sales, gross margin and operating expenses, and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainty in global fiscal policy has likely had an adverse impact on global financial markets and overall economic activity in recent years. Should this uncertain financial policy recur, it would likely negatively impact global economic activity. Any weakness in global economies would also likely have negative repercussions on U.S. and global credit and financial markets, and further exacerbate sovereign debt concerns in the European Union. All of these factors would likely adversely impact the global demand for our products and the performance of our investments, and would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The financial turmoil that has affected the banking system and financial markets in recent years could result in tighter credit markets and lower levels of liquidity in some financial markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from a tightened credit environment on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions negatively impacting our treasury functions. In the event our customers are unable to obtain credit or otherwise pay for our shipped products it could significantly impact our ability to collect on our outstanding accounts receivable. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Volatility in the financial markets and any overall economic uncertainty increase the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts, terrorist acts, civil unrest and mass migration may put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and the rest of the world. Unstable economic, political and social conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Additionally, unstable economic conditions can provide significant pressures and burdens on individuals, which could cause them to engage in inappropriate business conduct. See Part II, Item 9A.