Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." You can identify these and other forward-looking statements by the use of the words such as "may," "will," "could," "would," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "potential," "projected," "continue," "our observation," or the negative of such terms, or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements also include the assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth below in "Business," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and under the heading "Risk Factors." All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements as a result of events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or non-occurrence of anticipated events. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Business Overview Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to September 30. Fiscal years 2011 , 2010 and 2009 ended on October 1 , October 2 , and October 3 , respectively, and are referred to in this annual report as fiscal 2011 , fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 for convenience. Fiscal years 2011 and 2010 included 52 weeks; fiscal year 2009 included 53 weeks. We are one of the world's leading suppliers of photonics-based solutions in a broad range of commercial and scientific research applications. We design, manufacture, service and market lasers and related accessories for a diverse group of customers. Since inception in 1966, we have grown through internal expansion and through strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, technologies, intellectual property, manufacturing processes and product offerings. We are organized into two operating segments: Commercial Lasers and Components ("CLC") and Specialty Lasers and Systems ("SLS"). This segmentation reflects the go-to-market strategies for various products and markets. While both segments deliver cost-effective photonics solutions, CLC focuses on higher volume products that are offered in set configurations. The product architectures are designed for easy exchange at the point of use such that substantially all product service and repairs are based upon advanced replacement and depot (i.e., factory) repair. CLC's primary markets include materials processing and original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") components and instrumentation. SLS develops and manufactures configurable, advanced performance products largely serving the microelectronics, OEM components and instrumentation and scientific research and government programs markets. The size and complexity of many of the SLS products require service to be performed at the customer site by factory-trained field service engineers. Effective as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we moved our diode pumped solid state ("DPSS") Germany and Crystal product families from the CLC segment into the SLS segment. This concentrated all DPSS product families in the SLS segment. All reporting has been aligned to reflect the revised reportable operating segments (CLC and SLS) and prior periods have been restated. See additional discussion in Note 18 "Segment and Geographic Information" of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Income (loss) from operations is the measure of profit and loss that our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") uses to assess performance and make decisions. Income (loss) from operations represents the sales less the cost of sales and direct operating expenses incurred within the operating segments as well as allocated expenses such as shared sales and manufacturing costs. We do not allocate to our operating segments certain operating expenses, which we manage separately at the corporate level. These unallocated costs include stock-based compensation and corporate functions (certain advanced research and development, management, finance, legal and human resources) and are included in Corporate and other. Management does not consider unallocated Corporate and other costs in its measurement of segment performance. We were originally incorporated in California on May 26, 1966 and reincorporated in Delaware on October 1, 1990. Additional information about Coherent, Inc. (referred to herein as the Company, we, our, or Coherent) is available on our web site at www.coherent.com. We make available, free of charge on our web site, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Information contained on our web site is not part of this annual report or our other filings with the SEC. Any product, product name, process, or technology described in these materials is the property of Coherent, Inc. INDUSTRY BACKGROUND The word "laser" is an acronym for "light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation." A laser emits an intense coherent beam of light with some unique and highly useful properties. Most importantly, a laser is orders of magnitude brighter than any lamp. As a result of its coherence, the beam can be focused to a very small and intense spot, useful for applications requiring very high power densities including cutting and other materials processing procedures. The laser's high spatial resolution is also useful for microscopic imaging and inspection applications. Laser light can be monochromaticall the beam energy is confined to a narrow wavelength band. Some lasers can be used to create ultrafast outputa series of pulses with pulse durations as short as attoseconds (i.e., 10 -18 seconds). There are many types of lasers and one way of classifying them is by the material or medium used to create the lasing action. This can be in the form of a gas, liquid, semiconductor or solid state crystal. Lasers can also be classified by their 4 Table of Contents output wavelength: ultraviolet, visible, infrared or wavelength tunable. We manufacture all of these laser types. There are also many options in terms of pulsed output versus continuous wave, pulse duration, output power, beam dimensions, etc. In fact, each application has its specific requirements in terms of laser performance. The broad technical depth at Coherent enables us to offer a diverse set of product lines characterized by lasers targeted at growth opportunities and key applications. In all cases, we aim to be the supplier of choice by offering a high-value combination of superior technical performance and high reliability. Photonics has taken its place alongside electronics as a critical enabling technology for the twenty-first century. Photonics based solutions are entrenched in broad industries that include industrial automation, textile processing, microelectronics, flat panel displays and medical diagnostics, with adoption continuing in ever more diverse applications. Growth in these applications stems from two sources. First, there are many applications where the laser is displacing conventional technology because it can do the job faster, better or more economically. Second, there are new applications where the laser is the enabling tool that makes the work possible (e.g., the production of sub 50 micron microvias) used in the manufacture of high density printed circuit boards found in the latest smartphones and tablet computers. Key laser applications include: micro and nanotechnologies; solar cell production; semiconductor inspection; microlithography; measurement, test and repair of electronic circuits; flat panel display manufacturing; medical and bio-instrumentation; industrial process and quality control; materials processing; imaging and printing; graphic arts and display; and, research and development. For example, ultraviolet ("UV") lasers are enabling the move towards miniaturization, which drives innovation and growth in many markets. The short wavelength of lasers that produce light in the UV spectral region makes it possible to manufacture extremely small structures with maximum precisionconsistent with the latest state-of-the-art technology. OUR STRATEGY We strive to develop innovative and proprietary products and solutions that meet the needs of our customers and that are based on our core expertise in lasers and optical technologies. In pursuit of our strategy, we intend to: Leverage our technology portfolio and application engineering to lead the proliferation of photonics into broader markets We will continue to identify opportunities in which our technology portfolio and application engineering can be used to offer innovative solutions and gain access to new markets. We plan to utilize our expertise to expand into new markets, such as laser-based processing development tools for solar manufacturing and high power materials processing solutions. Optimize our leadership position in existing markets There are a number of markets where we have historically been at the forefront of technological development and product deployment and from which we have derived a substantial portion of our revenues. We plan to optimize our financial returns from these markets. Maintain and develop additional strong collaborative customer and industry relationships We believe that the Coherent brand name and reputation for product quality, technical performance and customer satisfaction will help us to further develop our loyal customer base. We plan to maintain our current customer relationships and develop new ones with customers who are industry leaders and work together with these customers to design and develop innovative product systems and solutions as they develop new technologies. Develop and acquire new technologies and market share We will continue to enhance our market position through our existing technologies and develop new technologies through our internal research and development efforts, as well as through the acquisition of additional complementary technologies, intellectual property, manufacturing processes and product offerings. Streamline our manufacturing structure and improve our cost structure We will focus on optimizing the mix of products that we manufacture internally and externally. We will utilize vertical integration where our internal manufacturing process is considered proprietary and seek to leverage external sources when the capabilities and cost structure are well developed and on a path towards commoditization. Focus on long-term improvement of adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of net sales We define adjusted EBITDA as operating income adjusted for depreciation, amortization, stock compensation expenses, major restructuring costs and certain other non-operating income and expense items. Key initiatives to reach our goals for EBITDA improvements include utilization of our Asian manufacturing locations, rationalizing our supply chain and continued leveraging of our infrastructure. 5 Table of Contents APPLICATIONS Our products address a broad range of applications that we group into the following markets: Microelectronics, Scientific Research and Government Programs, OEM Components and Instrumentation and Materials Processing. Microelectronics Nowhere is the trend towards miniaturization more prevalent than in the Microelectronics market where smart phones, tablets, ultrabooks, personal computers ("PC's") and televisions ("TV's") are driving advances in displays, integrated circuits and printed circuit boards ("PCB's"). In response to market demands and expectations, semiconductor and device manufacturers are continually seeking to improve their process and design technologies in order to manufacture smaller, more powerful and more reliable devices at lower cost. New laser applications and new laser technologies are a key element in delivering higher resolution and higher precision at lower manufacturing cost. We support four major markets in the microelectronics industry: (1) flat panel display manufacturing, (2) advanced packaging and interconnects, (3) semiconductor front-end, and (4) solar cell production and other emerging processes. Microelectronicsflat panel display manufacturing The high-volume consumer market is driving the production of flat panel displays ("FPDs") in applications such as mobile telephones, tablets, ultrabooks, laptop computers, television monitors, digital cameras, personal digital assistants ("PDAs") and car navigation systems. There are several types of established and emerging displays based on quite different technologies, including plasma ("PDP"), liquid crystal ("LCD") and organic polymers ("OLED"). Lasers have found applications in each of these technologies given that the laser provides higher process speed, better yield, improved battery life, lower cost and/or superior display brightness and resolution. Several display types require a high-density pattern of silicon Thin Film Transistors ("TFTs"). If this silicon is polycrystalline, the performance is greatly enhanced. In the past, these polysilicon layers could only be produced on expensive special glass at high temperatures. However, excimer based processes, such as excimer laser annealing ("ELA") have allowed high-volume production of low-temperature polysilicon ("LTPS") on conventional glass substrates. Our excimer lasers provide an invaluable solution for LTPS because they are the only industrial-grade excimer lasers with the high pulse energy optimized for this application. The current state-of-the-art product for this application is our excimer VYPER laser, which delivers over 1000W of power, enabling customers to scale to current Generation 5 & 5.5 substrates and in the near future up to Generation 8 sizes, when coupled with our latest 750mm length Line Beam optical delivery system (LB-750). These systems are integral to the manufacturing process on all leading LTPS based smartphone displays, with the highest commercially available pixel densities of greater than 300 pixels per inch (ppi) and hold the potential for widespread deployment in tablet computing and future OLED TV manufacturing. Our AVIA and DIAMOND lasers are also used in other production processes for FPDs. These processes include drilling, cutting, patterning, marking and yield improvement. Lasers have also become a valuable tool in high-brightness (HB) LED manufacturing, improving LED performance and yield. LED has seen rapid growth in the last year due to widespread adoption as the light source in all categories of LCD displays, from phones all the way to full size TV's. Our lasers are used in the back-end processing of HB-LEDs. Microelectronicsadvanced packaging and interconnects After a wafer is patterned, there are then a host of other processes, referred to as back-end processing, which finally result in a packaged encapsulated silicon chip. Ultimately, these chips are then assembled into finished products. The advent of high-speed logic and high-memory content devices has caused chip manufacturers to look for alternative technologies to improve performance and lower process costs. In terms of materials, this search includes new types of wafers based on low-k materials and thinner silicon. Our AVIA and Matrix lasers are providing economic methods of cutting and scribing these wafers while delivering higher yields than traditional mechanical methods. Our DIAMOND carbon dioxide ("CO 2 ") lasers are used for singulating packages and printed circuit boards into individual components for final assembly. Our Talisker lasers are used in a broad range of applications requiring high precision and low heat damage, such as in thin wafer cutting and drilling. These same trends are also driving integration and miniaturization, blurring the traditional lines between formerly discrete applications such as assembly and PCB fabrication. Lasers are playing several enabling roles in this integration and miniaturization. For instance, lasers are now the only economically practical method for drilling microvias in chip assemblies and in both rigid and flexible printed circuit boards. These microvias are tiny interconnects that are essential for enabling high-density circuitry commonly used in mobile handsets and advanced computing systems. Our AVIA and DIAMOND lasers are the lasers of choice in this application. The ability of these lasers to operate at very high repetition rates translates into faster drilling speeds and increased throughput in Microvia processing applications. 6 Table of Contents Other applications have developed as well. For instance, the high density of the latest circuit boards is reaching the limits of conventional printing technologies, causing wider adoption of laser direct write methods. Our Paladin laser is used for this application. Microelectronicssemiconductor front-end The term "front-end" refers to the production of semiconductor devices which occurs prior to packaging. As semiconductor device geometries decrease in size, devices become increasingly susceptible to smaller defects during each phase of the manufacturing process and these defects can negatively impact yield. One of the semiconductor industry's responses to the increasing vulnerability of semiconductor devices to smaller defects has been to use defect detection and inspection techniques that are closely linked to the manufacturing process. For example, automated laser-based inspection systems are now used to detect and locate defects as small as 0.01 micron, which may not be observable by conventional optical microscopes. Detecting the presence of defects is only the first step in preventing their recurrence. After detection, defects must be examined in order to identify their size, shape and the process step in which the defect occurred. This examination is called defect classification. Identification of the sources of defects in the lengthy and complex semiconductor manufacturing process has become essential for maintaining high yield production. Semiconductor manufacturing has become an around-the-clock operation and it is important for products used for inspection, measurement and testing to be reliable and to have long lifetimes. Our Azure, Paladin, Sapphire, and Excimer lasers are used to detect and characterize defects in semiconductor chips. Microelectronicssolar cell production Numerous areas of microelectronics can be grouped as "emerging technologies." Some of these are transitioning to volume production in the present timeframe while others are more forward-looking. Today's higher energy costs have led to heightened interest in solar panels. The interest in solar cell technology coupled with the intense focus on improving cell efficiency, is driving the adoption of laser technology in the manufacturing of solar cells. Our lasers, such as AVIA, Paladin, Matrix and Talisker, are used in the production of solar panels with applications such as dopant activation in the Crystalline Silicon (C:Si) cells and transparent conductive oxide ("TCO") scribing purposes in Thin Film designs. We have introduced a number of complete solutions for certain processes in the manufacturing of solar cells including the Coherent Equinox laser system and the Aethon laser system. These systems are based on Coherent lasers and can be used in a production or process development environment. Scientific research and government programs We are widely recognized as a technology innovator and the scientific market has historically provided an ideal "test market" for our leading-edge innovations. These have included ultrafast lasers, DPSS lasers, continuous-wave ("CW") systems, excimer gas lasers and water-cooled ion gas lasers. Our portfolio of lasers that address the scientific research market is broad and includes our Chameleon, COMPexPro, Evolution, Legend, Libra, MBD, MBR, Micra, Mira, Mantis and Verdi lasers. Many of the innovations and products pioneered in the scientific marketplace have become commercial successes for both our OEM customers and us. We have a large installed base of scientific lasers which are used in a wide range of applications spanning virtually every branch of science and engineering. These applications include biology and life science, engineering, physical chemistry and physics. Most of these applications require the use of ultrafast lasers that enable the generation of pulses short enough to be measured in attoseconds (10 -18 seconds). Because of these very short pulse durations, ultrafast lasers enable the study of fundamental physical and chemical processes with temporal resolution unachievable with any other tool. These lasers also deliver very high peak power and large bandwidths, which can be used to generate many exotic effects. Some of these are now finding their way into mainstream applications, such as microscopy or materials processing. In fact, the use of ultrafast lasers such as the Chameleon in microscopy is now a common occurrence in bio-imaging labs. OEM components and instrumentation Instrumentation is one of our more mature commercial applications. Representative applications within this market include bio-instrumentation, medical OEMs, graphic arts and display and machine vision. We also support the laser-based instrumentation market with a range of laser-related components, including diode lasers for optical pumping. Some of our OEM component business includes sales to other, less integrated laser manufacturers participating in OEM markets such as materials processing, scientific, and medical. Bio-instrumentation 7 Table of Contents Bio-instrumentation applications for lasers include bio-agent detection for point source and standoff detection of pathogens or other bio-toxins; confocal microscopy for biological imaging that allows researchers and clinicians to visualize cellular and subcellular structures and processes with an incredible amount of detail; DNA sequencing that provides automation and data acquisition rates that would be impossible by any other method; drug discoverygenomic and proteomic analyses that enable drug discovery to proceed at very high throughput rates; and flow cytometry for analyzing single cells or populations of cells in a heterogeneous mixture, including blood samples. Specifically, our Sapphire, Compass and Coherent CUBE lasers are used in several bio-instrumentation applications. Medical Therapy We sell a variety of components and lasers to medical laser companies in end-user applications such as ophthalmology, aesthetic, surgical, therapeutic and dentistry. Our DIAMOND series CO 2 lasers are widely used in ophthalmic, aesthetic and surgical markets. Our Compass and Sapphire series of lasers are used in the retinal scanning market in diagnostic imaging systems as well as new ground breaking in-vivo imaging applications. In addition, we have a leading position in Lasik and photorefractive keratectomy ("PRK") surgery methods with our ExciStar XS excimer laser platform. The unique ability of our optically pumped semiconductor lasers ("OPSL") technology to match a wavelength to an application has led to the development of a high-power yellow (577nm) laser for the treatment of eye related diseases, such as Age Related Macular Degeneration and retinal diseases associated with diabetes. The 577nm wavelength was designed to match the peak in absorption of oxygenated hemoglobin thereby allowing treatment to occur at a lower power level, and thus reducing stress and heat-load placed on the eye with traditional green-based (530nm) solid state lasers. This technology is finding traction with both medical OEMs and ophthalmologists. Materials Processing Lasers are widely accepted today in many important industrial manufacturing applications including cutting, welding, joining, drilling, perforating, and marking of metals and nonmetals. We supply high-power lasers for metal processing and low-to-medium power lasers for laser marking, nonmetals processing and precision micromachining. Our high power industrial laser systems are used for cutting, cladding and hardening of metals, joining materials, and other materials processing applications. Other applications include welding of plastics and direct metal welding. Our Semiconductor business provides higher power arrays with powers in excess of 50Kilowatts through its proprietary cooling and stacking technology. This unique technology provides the engine for both our Highlight direct diode systems as well as our upcoming kW class fiber laser. Complementing our high power solid state lasers is our industry leading DIAMOND E1000 CO 2 laser. Introduced in 2009, this laser remains in high demand due to its high power, small size and completely sealed design - all ideal for material processing. Combining the high power Direct Diode, Fiber and CO 2 offerings with our MetaBeam 1000 flatbed cutting tool provides a strong, compelling four-pronged approach to meeting the needs of our diverse materials processing customers. In 2010 we acquired Beam Dynamics, Inc., a manufacturer of flexible laser cutting tools for the materials processing market. These tools, when combined with Coherent's medium to high power CO 2 lasers, offer a unique blend of performance and precision in a small lightweight tool for cutting of metals and non-metals. Enabled with the DIAMOND E1000, the new METABEAM 1000 offers the industry's most compact 1kW tool, with tools footprints at least 50% smaller than competitive designs. Operating costs, due to the sealed nature of the DIAMOND series of CO 2 lasers are 75% less than similar, but larger tools. We also participate in the low to medium power area, including such applications as the cutting, drilling and joining of host of materials using our DIAMOND CO 2 lasers; Highlight FAP semiconductor lasers in OEM opportunities and direct end user applications with the lower power OMNIBEAM and METABEAM cutting tools; applications including cutting, perforating and scoring of paper, thin metals and packaging materials; and various cutting and patterning applications in the textile, wood and sign industries. In the specific area of textiles and clothing, our DIAMOND lasers service older applications, such as cutting complex shapes in leather for footwear, as well as newer applications such as creating detailed fade patterns on designer denims. Laser marking and coding are generally considered part of the precision materials processing applications market for which we remain a leading supplier. One such area where applications are growing rapidly is the displacement of ink-jet coding due to both aesthetic and environmental pressures. The optimum choice of laser depends on the material being marked, whether it is a surface mark (engraved) or a sub-surface mark, and the specific economics of the application. We provide lasers for all important marking applications. Our DIAMOND C and GEM Series of CO 2 lasers provide many systems manufacturers with a reliable cost effective source for marking and engraving on non-metals. In addition, our Matrix product line of reliable, 8 Table of Contents compact and low-cost diode pumped solid state lasers provides an ideal solution for marking of other materials in high volume manufacturing. FUTURE TRENDS Microelectronics Lasers are widely used in mass production microelectronics applications largely because they enable entirely new application capabilities that cannot be realized by any other known means. These laser-based fabrication and testing methods provide a level of precision, typically on a micrometer and nanometer level, that are unique, faster, are touch free, deliver superior end products, increase yields, and/or cut production costs. We anticipate this trend to continue, driven primarily by the increasing sophistication of consumer electronic goods and their convergence via the internet, resulting in increasing demand for better displays, more bandwidth and memory, while at the same time consuming less power. Although this market follows the macro-economic trends and carries inherit risks, we believe that Coherent is well positioned to continue to capitalize on the current market trends and that we will see continued increased adoption of our pulsed fiber, solid-state, CO 2 , direct diode and excimer lasers, as all these lasers enable entirely new applications, performance improvements and reduced process costs. LTPS based high resolution mobile displays (greater than 300ppi), and especially the emergence of OLED technology, look set to dominate the FPD technology trends of the future. We believe we are well positioned, especially with our Vyper Excimer lasers and LB optical systems, to take advantage of this trend, including the possibility of LTPS based OLED TVs. CO 2 , Avia, Talisker and direct diode lasers all seem aligned with the need for related FPD touch panel, thin film cutting, light guide technology, frit welding and glass cutting applications. Semiconductor devices look set to continue Moore's Law, shrinking device geometries for at least another decade, as well as expanding vertically into new 3D structures. As a result we believe our many deep UV laser sources (such as Paladin, Avia, Talisker, ExiStar and Matrix) will continue to find increasing adoption, since their unique optical properties align well with the process demands of a nanometer scale world. The same lasers plus CO 2 are also widely adopted for back end Advanced Packaging and Interconnect (API) applications. With dimension roadmaps showing a decade of dimension shrink on PCBs, interconnects, Silicon & LED scribe widths and glass thickness, we believe that our portfolio of lasers aligns well with these demands as well as new processes that seem likely to be enabled by our lasers, to meet the increasing demands and decreasing tolerances of these markets. The short term outlook for solar is uncertain given the global economy, credit availability and the significant oversupply of cell production that exists at this time. The longer term outlook for this ultimate clean, free and abundant source of energy is expected to be strong; however, the timing is uncertain. We believe that the vast majority of leading solar cell manufacturers have laser based processes on their roadmap to enable higher conversion efficiencies. Lasers provide a touch-free manufacturing process on increasingly fragile substrates (as they get thinner). They also hold the promise of lower manufacturing costs and higher yield for certain process steps. We believe we are well positioned as this market matures, standardizes processes and recovers economically. Scientific research and government programs The scientific market benefited from stimulus funding during fiscal 2011, with applications in ultrashort pulses and in bio-research being the drivers of this anticipated expansion. We anticipate the total amount of government-related funding for scientific research to decline from prior stimulus levels, but believe that as we push the boundaries of performance and ease of use in our ultrafast lasers, we have the potential to capture a larger share of the funds that are available by enabling our customers to win funding for new research fields that drive discovery. While these markets remain highly competitive, we believe our leadership position and new product pipeline will drive Attosecond science boundaries and Biological Imaging ease of use, enabling new research frontiers to be forged and we would expect a gain in market share as a result. OEM components and instrumentation The instrumentation market is seeing a gradual migration from the use of mature laser technologies, such as water-cooled ion gas lasers, to new technologies, primarily based on solid state and semiconductor lasers. Using our unique portfolio of such lasers, as well as our patented OPSL technology, we are able to both assist and stimulate this transition as well as to be the technology of choice for developing applications such as security and clinical diagnostics. Our OPSL technology resulted in the first truly continuous solid-state UV laser which enables the use of UV in a clinical as well as a research environment. Furthermore we anticipate greater future opportunities in bio-instrumentation, including DNA sequencing, drug discovery, flow cytometry, and microscopy, based on our product enhancements and evolving market developments, particularly in increased migration from clinical to point-of-care diagnostics. Our newer laser technologies are the basis of a number of clinical procedures. In the area of photocoagulation, the Genesis OPSL yellow lasers are being used as the wavelength is particularly 9 Table of Contents suitable for the treatment of blood vessels. In aesthetic laser procedures, we are an OEM supplier of CO 2 and semiconductor lasers to the major manufacturers of equipment used in the latest procedures in dermatology and hair removal. We supply excimer lasers used in refractive eye surgery and are actively involved in further developments in laser vision correction. Materials processing The market for low to medium power CO 2 , solid state and semiconductor lasers used in industrial materials processing has experienced a nice rebound and is expected to see continued growth driven by wider adoption of lasers in new processes especially in emerging markets. Key design wins as well as more favorable markets continue to support our growth in this area. These lasers represent a cost-effective manufacturing solution for cutting, joining, marking and engraving of non-metal materials including marking/coding, flat bed cutting, engraving, as well as the production of capital equipment for apparel and leather goods manufacturing. Our four-pronged approach to the higher power industrial laser market provides us with a unique combination of high power, precision and compact size, which we believe will be highly desirable in existing manufacturing environments as well as those of the future. We offer kilowatt Diamond CO2 lasers, Highlight direct diode lasers and MetaBEAM family of turnkey laser machine tools. We demonstrated a prototype 1kW fiber laser in fiscal 2011 to round-out our four-pronged strategy. Several factors are enabling us to gain market share in the materials processing market. First, we have developed an expanded portfolio of lasers with a broad spectrum of wavelengths, enabling optimum solutions for virtually every metal and non-metal material type. At the same time, the reliability of these products has been achieved at even higher levels, lowering the cost of ownership. 10 Table of Contents MARKET APPLICATIONS We design, manufacture and market lasers, laser tools, precision optics and related accessories for a diverse group of customers. The following table lists our major markets and the Coherent technologies serving these markets.* Market Application Technology Microelectronics Flat panel display CO 2 DPSS Excimer Ultrafast Semiconductor Advanced packaging and interconnects CO 2 DPSS Ultrafast Semiconductor front-end DPSS OPSL Excimer Ion Solar cell production and other emerging processes DPSS Fiber Scientific research and government programs All scientific applications DPSS Excimer OPSL Ultrafast OEM components and instrumentation Bio-Instrumentation DPSS OPSL Semiconductor Ultrafast Graphic arts and display OPSL CO 2 Medical therapy (OEM) CO 2 DPSS Excimer OPSL Semiconductor Materials processing Metal cutting, joining, surface treatment CO 2 Fiber Semiconductor Laser Machine Tools Laser marking and coding CO 2 DPSS Non-metal cutting, drilling CO 2 DPSS Excimer Semiconductor Laser Machine Tools *Coherent sells its laser measurement and control products into a number of these applications. In addition to products we provide, we invest routinely in the core technologies needed to create substantial differentiation for our products in the marketplace. Our semiconductor, crystal and fiber facilities all maintain an external customer base providing value-added solutions. We direct significant engineering efforts to produce unique solutions targeted for internal consumption. These investments, once integrated into our broader product portfolio, provide our customers with uniquely differentiated solutions and the opportunity to substantially enhance the performance, reliability and capability of the products we offer. 11 Table of Contents TECHNOLOGIES Diode-pumped solid-state ("DPSS") lasers DPSS lasers use semiconductor lasers to pump a crystal to produce a laser beam. By changing the energy, optical components and the types of crystals used in the laser, different wavelengths and types of laser light can be produced. The efficiency, reliability, longevity and relatively low cost of DPSS lasers make them ideally suited for a wide range of OEM and end-user applications, particularly those requiring 24-hour operations. Our DPSS systems are compact and self-contained sealed units. Unlike conventional tools and other lasers, our DPSS lasers require minimal maintenance since they do not have internal controls or components that require adjusting and cleaning to maintain consistency. They are also less affected by environmental changes in temperature and humidity, which can alter alignment and inhibit performance in many systems. We manufacture a variety of types of DPSS lasers for different applications including semiconductor inspection; advanced packaging and interconnects; laser pumping; spectroscopy; bio-agent detection; DNA sequencing; drug discovery; flow cytometry; forensics; computer-to-plate printing; entertainment lighting (display); medical; rapid prototyping and marking, welding, engraving, cutting and drilling. Fiber lasers Fiber lasers use semiconductor lasers to pump a doped optical fiber to produce a laser beam. In fiscal 2008, we launched our first product based on fiber laser technology, the Talisker. This is an industrial ultrafast laser system which incorporates fiber laser technologies as a key part of the laser design. The Talisker is a new laser platform based on a fiber oscillator and crystal amplifier and is illustrative of our strategy of developing and incorporating fiber lasers where they can generate unique and cost-effective performance. We expect the Talisker platform will lead to a series of new ultrafast lasers for a number of commercial markets including microelectronics and medical. In fiscal 2009, we launched a program to address the kilowatt high power materials processing market. We have successfully demonstrated a 1 kilowatt fiber laser product based on our high power diode laser system, the Highlight 1000F. This prototype demonstrated the platform for a scalable, kilowatt class fiber laser based on a bar pumping design. Due to packaging efficiency, diode bars reduce the overall cost of a fiber laser. This platform will address the growing high power metal cutting and joining market and delivers a field serviceable solution. Fiber laser technology continues to be an important investment and product development area and we anticipate more products that incorporate fiber as the active gain medium. In fiscal 2010, we acquired the business assets of Stocker-Yale, Inc. which included a fiber manufacturing facility capable of producing both active and passive fibers. Gas lasers (CO 2 , Excimer, Ion) The breadth of our gas laser portfolio is industry leading, encompassing CO 2 , excimer and ion laser technologies. Gas lasers derive their name from the use of one or more gases as a lasing medium. They collectively span an extremely diverse and useful emission range, from the very deep ultraviolet to the far infrared. This diverse range of available wavelengths, coupled with high optical output power, and an abundance of other attractive characteristics, makes gas lasers extremely useful and popular for a variety of microelectronics, scientific, medical therapeutic and materials processing applications. Optically Pumped Semiconductor Lasers ("OPSL") Our OPSL platform is a surface emitting semiconductor laser that is energized or pumped by a semiconductor laser. The use of optical pumping circumvents inherent power scaling limitations of electrically pumped lasers, enabling very high powered devices. A wide range of wavelengths can be achieved by varying the semiconductor materials used in the device and changing the frequency of the laser beam using techniques common in solid state lasers. The platform leverages high reliability technologies developed for telecommunications and produces a compact, rugged, high power, single-mode laser. Our OPSL products are well suited to a wide range of applications, including the bio-instrumentation, medical therapeutics and graphic arts and display markets. In fiscal 2009, our Genesis yellow laser continued to make progress in ophthalmology and we have expanded our offerings in the area of entertainment lighting using a variety of products across the visible spectrum. We also continued to expand our ultraviolet version of the OPSL platform called the Genesis, which was developed for the bio-instrumentation market. Semiconductor lasers High power edge emitting semiconductor diode lasers use the same principles as widely-used CD and DVD lasers, but produce significantly higher power levels. The advantages of this type of laser include smaller size, longer life, enhanced reliability and greater efficiency. We manufacture a wide range of discrete semiconductor laser products with wavelengths ranging from 650nm to 1000nm and output powers ranging from 1W to over 100W, with highly integrated products in the kW 12 Table of Contents range. These products are available in a variety of industry standard form factors including the following: bare die, packaged and fiber coupled single emitters and bars, monolithic stacks, and fully integrated modules with microprocessor controlled units that contain power supplies and active coolers. Our semiconductor lasers are used internally as the pump lasers in DPSS, fiber and OPSL products that are manufactured by us, as well as a wide variety of external medical, OEM, military and industrial applications, including aesthetic (hair removal, cosmetic dentistry), graphic arts, counter measures, rangefinders, target designators, and plastic welding. Ultrafast ("UF") Lasers Ultrafast lasers are lasers generating light pulses with durations of a few femtoseconds (10 -15 seconds) to a few tens of picoseconds (10 -11 seconds). These types of lasers are primarily used for scientific research and also are finding use in sophisticated materials processing applications. Ultrafast lasers are usually pumped by a green DPSS laser. UF laser oscillators generate a train of pulses at 50-100 MHz, with peak powers of tens of Kilowatts, and UF laser amplifiers generate pulses at 10-500 kHz, with peak powers up to several Terawatts. The extremely short duration of UF laser pulses enables temporally resolving fast events like the dynamics of atoms or electrons. In addition, the high peak power enables so-called non-linear effects where several photons can be absorbed by a molecule at the same time. This type of process enables applications like multi-photon excitation microscopy or UF ablation of materials with minimal thermal damage. SALES AND MARKETING We market our products domestically through a direct sales force. Our foreign sales are made principally to customers in Japan, South Korea, Germany and other European and Asia-Pacific countries. We sell internationally through direct sales personnel located in Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, China, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia and the United Kingdom, as well as through independent representatives in certain jurisdictions around the world. Foreign sales accounted for 74% of our total net sales in fiscal 2011 , 67% of our total net sales in fiscal 2010 and 66% of our total net sales in fiscal 2009 . In fiscal 2011, sales to Asian markets continued to grow at a faster rate than sales to other geographic regions. Sales made to independent representatives and distributors are generally priced in U.S. dollars. A large portion of foreign sales that we make directly to customers are priced in local currencies and are therefore subject to currency exchange fluctuations. Foreign sales are also subject to other normal risks of foreign operations such as protective tariffs, export and import controls and political instability. Our products are broadly distributed and no one customer accounted for more than 10% of total net sales during fiscal 2011 , 2010 or 2009 . We maintain a customer support and field service staff in major markets within the United States, Europe, Japan, China, South Korea, Taiwan and other Asia-Pacific countries. This organization works closely with customers, customer groups and independent representatives in servicing equipment, training customers to use our products and exploring additional applications of our technologies. We typically provide parts and service warranties on our lasers, laser-based systems, optical and laser components and related accessories and services. Warranties on some of our products and services may be shorter or longer than one year. Warranty reserves, as reflected on our consolidated balance sheets, have generally been sufficient to cover product warranty repair and replacement costs. The weighted average warranty period covered is approximately 15 months. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We are committed to the development of new products, as well as the improvement and refinement of existing products, including better cost-of-ownership. Our development efforts are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends. Our efforts are also focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make valuable contributions. Research and development expenditures for fiscal 2011 were $81.2 million , or 10.1% of net sales compared to $72.4 million , or 12.0% of net sales for fiscal 2010 and $61.4 million , or 14.1% of net sales for fiscal 2009 . We work closely with customers, both individually and through our sponsored seminars, to develop products to meet customer application and performance needs. In addition, we are working with leading research and educational institutions to develop new photonics based solutions. MANUFACTURING Strategies One of our core manufacturing strategies is to tightly control our supply of key parts, components, sub-assemblies and outsourcing partners. We primarily utilize vertical integration when we have proprietary internal capabilities that are not available from external sources cost-effectively. We believe this is essential to maintain high quality products and enable rapid 13 Table of Contents development and deployment of new products and technologies. We provide customers with 24-hour technical expertise and quality that is International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") certified at our principal manufacturing sites. Committed to quality and customer satisfaction, we design and produce many of our own components and sub-assemblies in order to retain quality control. We have also outsourced certain components, sub-assemblies and finished goods where we can maintain our high quality standards while improving our cost structure. In 2007, we embarked on a plan to consolidate and close certain of our manufacturing facilities in order to reduce our footprint, realize synergies, and improve our cost structure and operating leverage. We have successfully executed this plan and closed six of our manufacturing facilities including Auburn and Lundy, California; St. Louis, Missouri; Montreal, Canada; Munich, Germany; and Tampere, Finland. The manufacturing of products from these six facilities were transferred to other Coherent facilities or outsourced to our Contract Manufacturing partners. As part of our strategy to increase our market share and customer support in Asia as well as our continuing efforts to manage costs, we acquired the business assets of privately-held Hypertronics in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. Hypertronics' assets included an engineering and integration center in Singapore and a low cost manufacturing facility in Penang, Malaysia, and designs and manufactures laser- and vision-based tools for flat panel, storage, semiconductor and biomedical applications. We have increased the footprint of both the Singapore and Malaysia factories and plan to use these operations to serve as a nucleus for laser manufacturing and repair in Asia. This will allow us to reduce service response time and inventories, providing benefits to customers and Coherent. We have also established an International Procurement Office in Singapore and plan to increase our sourcing of materials from Asia. As this function is developed, we will be able to reduce material costs on a global basis. We have designed and implemented proprietary manufacturing tools, equipment and techniques in an effort to provide products that differentiate us from our competitors. These proprietary manufacturing techniques are utilized in a number of our product lines including our gas laser production, crystal growth, beam alignment as well as the wafer growth for our semiconductor and optically pumped semiconductor laser product family. Raw materials or sub-components required in the manufacturing process are generally available from several sources. However, we currently purchase several key components and materials, including exotic materials and crystals, used in the manufacture of our products from sole source or limited source suppliers. We also purchase assemblies and turnkey solutions from contract manufacturers based on our proprietary designs. We rely on our own production and design capability to manufacture and specify certain strategic components, crystals, fibers, semiconductor lasers, lasers and laser based systems. For a discussion of the importance to our business of, and the risks attendant to sourcing, see "Risk FactorsWe depend on sole source or limited source suppliers, both internal and external, for some of our key components and materials, including exotic materials, certain cutting-edge optics and crystals, in our products, which make us susceptible to supply shortages or price fluctuations that could adversely affect our business" in Item 1A. Operations Our products are manufactured at our sites in Santa Clara and Sunnyvale, California; Wilsonville, Oregon; East Hanover, New Jersey; Bloomfield, Connecticut; Lbeck, Germany; Gttingen, Germany; Glasgow, Scotland; Salem, New Hampshire; Kallang Sector, Singapore; and Penang, Malaysia. In addition, we also use contract manufacturers for the production of certain assemblies and turnkey solutions. Our ion gas lasers, a portion of our DPSS lasers that are used in microelectronics, scientific research and materials processing applications, semiconductor lasers, [DDF fibers] and ultrafast scientific lasers are manufactured at our Santa Clara, California site. Our laser diode module products, laser instrumentation products, test and measurement equipment products are manufactured in Wilsonville, Oregon. We manufacture exotic crystals in East Hanover, New Jersey and both active and passive fibers are manufactured in our New Hampshire facility. Our CO 2 gas lasers are manufactured in Bloomfield, Connecticut. We manufacture a portion of our DPSS lasers used in microelectronics and OEM components and instrumentation applications in Lbeck, Germany. Our excimer gas laser products are manufactured in Gttingen, Germany. We manufacture the fiber-based lasers and a portion of our DPSS lasers used in microelectronics and scientific research applications in Glasgow, Scotland. Our facility in Sunnyvale, California grows the aluminum-free materials that are incorporated into our semiconductor lasers. Our laser- and vision-based tools for flat panel, storage, semiconductor and solar applications are manufactured in Singapore with Malaysia as the low cost assembly hub. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. As of October 1, 2011 , we held approximately 387 U.S. and foreign patents, which expire from 2013 through 2029 (depending on the payment of maintenance fees) and we have approximately 114 additional pending patent applications that have been filed. The issued patents cover various products in all of the major markets that we serve. For a discussion of the importance to our business of, and the risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "Risk 14 Table of Contents FactorsRisks Associated with Our Industry, Our Business and Market Conditions" 'We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology which could adversely affect our competitive advantage' and 'We may, in the future, be subject to claims or litigation from third parties, for claims of infringement of their proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors or other rights holders. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel. Adverse resolution of litigation may harm our operating results or financial condition' in Item 1A. COMPETITION Competition in the various photonics markets in which we provide products is very intense. We compete against a number of companies including CVI Melles Griot, Cymer, Inc., GSI Group, Inc., IPG Photonics Corporation, JDS Uniphase Corporation, Newport Corporation, Rofin-Sinar Technologies, Inc., and Trumpf GmbH, as well as other smaller companies. We compete globally based on our broad product offering, reliability, cost, and performance advantages for the widest range of commercial and scientific research applications. Other considerations by our customers include warranty, global service and support and distribution. BACKLOG At fiscal 2011 year-end, our backlog of orders scheduled for shipment (generally within one year) was $356.5 million compared to $262.0 million at fiscal 2010 and $164.3 million at fiscal 2009 year-ends. Orders used to compute backlog are generally cancelable without substantial penalties. Historically, the rate of cancellation experienced by us has not been significant though we cannot guarantee that cancellations will not increase in the future. SEASONALITY We have historically experienced decreased bookings and revenue in the first fiscal quarter compared to other quarters in our fiscal year due to the impact of time off and business closures at many of our customers due to year-end holidays. This historical pattern should not be considered a reliable indicator of the Company's future net sales or financial performance. EMPLOYEES As of fiscal 2011 year-end, we had 2,309 employees. Approximately 391 of our employees are involved in research and development; 1,358 of our employees are involved in operations, manufacturing, service and quality assurance; and 560 of our employees are involved in sales, order administration, marketing, finance, information technology and other administrative functions. Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain employees. We face competition in this regard from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. ACQUISITIONS In January 2011, we acquired all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Hypertronics Pte Ltd for approximately $14.5 million in cash. Hypertronics designs and manufactures laser-and vision-based tools for flat panel, storage, semiconductor and solar applications at facilities in Singapore and Malaysia. Hypertronics has been included in our Specialty Lasers and Systems segment. In April 2010, we acquired Beam Dynamics, Inc. for $5.9 million in cash and $0.3 million in deferred compensation related to an employment contract, which was recognized in expense as earned. Beam Dynamics manufactures flexible laser cutting tools for the materials processing market. Beam Dynamics has been included in our Commercial Lasers and Components segment. In October 2009, we acquired all the assets and certain liabilities of StockerYale, Inc.'s ("StockerYale") laser module product line in Montreal and its specialty fiber product line in Salem, New Hampshire for $15.0 million in cash. StockerYale designs, develops and manufactures low power laser modules, light emitting diode (LED) systems and specialty optical fiber products. These assets and liabilities have been included in our Commercial Lasers and Components segment. We consummated no acquisitions in fiscal 2009. Please refer to "Note 4. Business Combinations" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the acquisition completed during fiscal 2011 . RESTRUCTURINGS AND CONSOLIDATION During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we acquired the assets and certain liabilities of StockerYale's laser module product line in Montreal, Canada and began to transition those activities to contract manufacturers and other Coherent facilities in 15 Table of Contents Salem, Massachusetts, Wilsonville, Oregon and Sunnyvale, California. The transfer was completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. The fiscal 2010 severance related costs are primarily comprised of severance pay, outplacement services, medical and other related benefits for employees being terminated due to the transition of activities out of Montreal, Canada, and Tampere, Finland. The fiscal 2011 severance related costs are primarily comprised of severance pay, outplacement services, medical and other related benefits for employees being terminated due to the transition of activities out of Tampere, Finland. During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we announced our plans to close our facilities in Tampere, Finland and St. Louis, Missouri. The closure of our St. Louis, Missouri and Yokohama, Japan sites were completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. The closure of our Finland site was scheduled for completion by the end of fiscal 2010, but we decided to delay the closure due to increased demand for products manufactured in Finland. In the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we ceased manufacturing operations in our Finland facility and we exited the facility in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. These closure plans have resulted in charges primarily for employee termination and other exit related costs associated with a plan approved by management. During fiscal 2008, we consolidated our German DPSS manufacturing into our Lbeck, Germany site. The transfer was completed in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. On October 13, 2008, we announced the consolidation of the remainder of our Munich facility into our Gttingen site. The transfer was completed in our third quarter of fiscal 2009. The consolidation and transfers have resulted in charges primarily for employee terminations, other exit related costs associated with a plan approved by management and a grant repayment liability. In April 2008, we announced that we entered into an agreement to sell certain assets of our Auburn Optics ("Auburn") manufacturing operation to Research Electro-Optics, Inc. ("REO"), a privately held optics manufacturing and technology company. We also entered into a strategic supply agreement with REO. REO is providing optical manufacturing capabilities for us, including fabrication and coating of optical components. The transition of the optics manufacturing assets from Auburn to REO was substantially completed in second quarter of fiscal 2009. The transition has resulted in charges primarily for employee terminations, supplier qualification, moving costs for related equipment, and other exit related costs associated with a plan approved by management. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Environmental regulation Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental protection regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials, chemicals, various radioactive materials and certain waste products. In the United States, we are subject to the federal regulation and control of the Environmental Protection Agency. Comparable authorities are involved in other countries. We believe that compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive and financial position. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of such materials comply with the standards required by federal and state laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident involving such materials, we could be liable for damages and such liability could exceed the amount of our liability insurance coverage and the resources of our business. We may face potentially increasing complexity in our product designs and procurement operations as we adjust to requirements relating to the materials composition of products entering specific markets. Such regulations went into effect in the European Union ("EU") in 2006, and China in 2007. We could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. Beginning in 2006, the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive made producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. In addition, the EU has added the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals Regulation, otherwise known as the REACH Regulation, which further regulates substances and products imported, manufactured or sold within the EU. Similar laws are now pending in various jurisdictions around the world, including the United States. We further discuss the impact of environmental regulation under "Risk FactorsCompliance or the failure to comply with current and future environmental regulations could cause us significant expense" in Item 1A. SEGMENT INFORMATION We are organized into two operating segments: Commercial Lasers and Components ("CLC") and Specialty Lasers and Systems ("SLS"). This segmentation reflects the go-to-market strategies for various products and markets. While both segments work to deliver cost-effective photonics solutions, CLC focuses on higher volume products that are offered in set configurations. The product architectures are designed for easy exchange at the point of use such that product service and repairs are based upon advanced replacement and depot (i.e., factory) repair. CLC's primary markets include OEM components 16 Table of Contents and instrumentation and materials processing. SLS develops and manufacturers configurable, advanced-performance products largely serving the microelectronics and scientific research markets. The size and complexity of many of the SLS products require service to be performed at the customer site by factory-trained field service engineers. We have identified CLC and SLS as operating segments for which discrete financial information was available. Both units have dedicated engineering, manufacturing, product business management and product line management functions. A small portion of our outside revenue is attributable to projects and recently developed products for which a segment has not yet been determined. The associated direct and indirect costs are presented in the category of Corporate and other, along with other corporate costs. Effective as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2009, in order to align all of our diode-pumped solid state ("DPSS") technology into the same reportable operating segment, management moved the DPSS Germany and Crystal product families from the CLC segment into the SLS segment. This allows for leverage and efficiencies in many parts of the business. Crystal is primarily an internal supplier that supports the DPSS product family. This concentrates all DPSS product families in the SLS segment effective as of the first quarter of fiscal 2009. All reporting has been aligned to reflect the revised reportable operating segments (CLC and SLS). FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES Financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations for fiscal years 2011 , 2010 and 2009 , is set forth in Note 18, "Segment and Geographic Information" of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the followings risks when considering an investment in our Common Stock. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our Common Stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Coherent. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under Forward-Looking Statements and the risk of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additionally, these risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our business, results of operations or financial conditions. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND INDUSTRY TRENDS Risks Associated with Our Industry, Our Business and Market Conditions Our operating results, including net sales, net income (loss) and adjusted EBITDA percentage in dollars and as a percentage of net sales, as well as our stock price have varied in the past, and our future operating results will continue to be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations based upon numerous factors, including those discussed in this Item 1A and throughout this report. Our stock price will continue to be subject to daily variations as well. Our future operating results and stock price may not follow any past trends or meet our guidance and expectations. Our net sales and operating results, such as adjusted EBITDA percentage, net income (loss) and operating expenses, and our stock price have varied in the past and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year in the future. We believe a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, could cause these variations and make them difficult to predict, including: general economic uncertainties in the macroeconomic and local economies facing us, our customers and the markets we serve; access to applicable credit markets by us, our customers and their end customers; fluctuations in demand for our products or downturns in the industries that we serve; the ability of our suppliers, both internal and external, to produce and deliver components and parts, including sole or limited source components, in a timely manner, in the quantity, quality and prices desired; the timing of conversion of booking to revenue; timing or cancellation of customer orders and shipment scheduling; fluctuations in our product mix; the ability of our customers' suppliers to provide sufficient material to support our customers' products; currency fluctuations and stability, in particular the Euro; commodity pricing; introductions of new products and product enhancements by our competitors, entry of new competitors into our markets, pricing pressures and other competitive factors; our ability to develop, introduce, manufacture and ship new and enhanced products in a timely manner without defects; our ability to manage our capacity and that of our suppliers; our increased reliance on domestic and foreign contract manufacturing; the rate of market acceptance of our new products; 18 Table of Contents the ability of our customers to pay for our products; expenses associated with acquisition-related activities; seasonal sales trends; delays or reductions in customer purchases of our products in anticipation of the introduction of new and enhanced products by us or our competitors; our ability to control expenses; the level of capital spending of our customers; potential excess and/or obsolescence of our inventory; costs and timing of adhering to current and developing governmental regulations and reviews relating to our products and business; costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and other long term assets; our ability to meet our expectations and forecasts and those of public market analysts and investors; costs and expenses from litigation; the availability of research funding by governments with regard to our customers in the scientific business, such as universities; continued government spending on defense-related projects where we are a subcontractor; government support of the alternative energy industries, such as solar; maintenance of supply relating to products sold to the government on terms which we would prefer not to accept; changes in policy, interpretations, or challenges to the allowability of costs incurred under government cost accounting standards; damage to our reputation as a result of coverage in social media, Internet blogs or other media outlets ; managing our and other parties' compliance with contracts in multiple languages and jurisdictions; managing our internal and third party sales representatives and distributors, including compliance with all applicable laws; costs associated with designing around or payment of licensing fees associated with issued patents in our fields of business; the future impact of legislation, rulemaking, and changes in accounting, tax, defense procurement, or export policies; and distraction of management related to acquisition or divestment activities. In addition, we often recognize a substantial portion of our sales in the last month of our fiscal quarters. Our expenses for any given quarter are typically based on expected sales and if sales are below expectations in any given quarter, the adverse impact of the shortfall on our operating results may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall. We also base our manufacturing on our forecasted product mix for the quarter. If the actual product mix varies significantly from our forecast, we may not be able to fill some orders during that quarter, which would 19 Table of Contents result in delays in the shipment of our products. Accordingly, variations in timing of sales, particularly for our higher priced, higher margin products, can cause significant fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our historical operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our results for any quarter or year as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters and years may be below public market analysts' or investors' expectations, which would likely cause the price of our stock to fall. In addition, over the past several years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock prices of many technology companies. There has not always been a direct correlation between this volatility and the performance of particular companies subject to these stock price fluctuations. Further, over the last twelve months, equity markets around the world have significantly fluctuated across most sectors. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions or investors' concerns regarding the credibility of corporate financial statements, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock in the future. We are exposed to risks associated with worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties. Volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, depressed consumer confidence, negative economic conditions, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending could negatively impact demand for our products. In particular, it is difficult to develop and implement strategy, sustainable business models and efficient operations, as well as effectively manage supply chain relationships in the face of such conditions including uncertainty regarding the ability of some of our suppliers to continue operations and provide us with uninterrupted supply flow. Our ability to maintain our research and development investments in our broad product offerings may be adversely impacted in the event that our sales decline and do not increase in the future. Spending and the timing thereof by consumers and businesses has a significant impact on our results and, where such spending is delayed or canceled, it could cause a material negative impact on our operating results. The current global economic conditions remain uncertain and challenging. Weakness in our end markets could negatively impact our revenue, gross margin and operating expenses, and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that additional financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in continued tightening in the credit markets, and lower levels of liquidity in some financial markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the tightened credit environment on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions negatively impacting our treasury functions. In the event our customers are unable to obtain credit or otherwise pay for our shipped products it could significantly impact our ability to collect on our outstanding accounts receivable. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Volatility in the financial markets and any overall economic uncertainty increase the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts, terrorist acts and civil unrest may put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and abroad. Unstable economic, political and social conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Additionally, unstable economic conditions can provide significant pressures and burdens on individuals, which could cause them to engage in inappropriate business conduct. See Part II, Item 9A.