Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements contained in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are forward-looking statements as defined by Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding projected growth rates, markets, product development, financial position, capital expenditures and foreign currency exposure. Forward-looking statements are also identified by words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, projects or similar expressions. Although our management considers these expectations and assumptions to have a reasonable basis, there can be no assurance that managements expectations, beliefs or projections as expressed in the forward-looking statements will actually occur or prove to be correct. In addition to general industry and global economic conditions, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include, but are not limited to: (i) the failure of any one or more of the assumptions stated above to prove to be correct; and (ii) the risks relating to forward-looking statements and other Risk Factors discussed in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 and in the Company's other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The 21 Table of Contents Company disclaims any obligation to update information contained in these forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or developments, or otherwise. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment; new risk factors can arise, and it is not possible for management to anticipate all such risk factors, or to assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any individual risk factor, or combination of risk factors, may cause results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. The forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are based only on information currently available to us and speak only as of the date of this Report. We do not assume any obligation, and do not intend to, update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by the securities laws. Investors should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature that the Company may make in its subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, or other disclosures filed with or furnished to the SEC. Investors should also be aware that, while the Company does communicate with securities analysts from time to time, such communications are conducted in accordance with applicable securities laws. Investors should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Overview II-VI Incorporated (II-VI, the Company, we, us or our), a worldwide leader in engineered materials and opto-electronic components, is a vertically integrated manufacturing company that develops innovative products for industrial materials processing, communications, aerospace and defense, consumer electronics, semiconductor capital equipment, life sciences and automotive end markets. The Company produces a wide variety of application-specific photonic and electronic materials and components, and deploys them in various forms, including integration with advanced software. The Company generates revenues, earnings and cash flows from developing, manufacturing and marketing a broad portfolio of products for our end markets. We also generate revenue, earnings and cash flows from government-funded research and development contracts relating to the development and manufacture of new technologies, materials and products. Our customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, laser end users, system integrators of high-power lasers, manufacturers of equipment and devices for industrial, optical communications, consumer electronics, security and monitoring applications, U.S. government prime contractors, and various U.S. government agencies. On July 7, 2020, the Company closed its underwritten public offering and sale of 2.3 million shares of Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. as well as its underwritten public offering and sale of approximately 10.7 million shares of its common stock. See Note 12. Equity, to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. As we grow, we are focused on scaling our Company and deriving the continued benefits of vertical integration as we strive to be a best in class competitor in all of our highly competitive markets. The Company may elect to change the way in which the Company operates or is organized in the future to enable the most efficient implementation of our strategy. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures are in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in its condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K dated August 26, 2020 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. New Accounting Standards See Note 2. Recent Accounting Pronouncements to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements. COVID-19 Update 22 On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization designated the novel coronavirus known as COVID-19 as a global pandemic. In response to the global spread of COVID-19, governments at various levels have implemented unprecedented response measures. Overall, the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly curtailed global economic activity and caused significant volatility and disruption in global financial markets. Certain of the measures taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic have adversely affected, and could in the future materially adversely impact, our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. In particular, the COVID-19 pandemic is having a significant impact on global markets due to resulting supply chain and production disruptions, workforce and travel restrictions, quarantines and shelter-in-place orders, reduced spending and other similar measures implemented by many companies and other factors. Following the initial outbreak of COVID-19, we experienced temporary disruptions to our operations in China. While these operations have returned to active service, a pproxi mately 45% of our global facilities are subject to a government order, including approximately 10% that are currently closed, most of which are administrative facilities where employees are working remotely. Certain of our customers and suppliers currently are impacted by similar operational restrictions. Our focus has been on the protection of the health and safety of our employees and business partners. In our facilities, we have deployed new safety measures, including guidance to employees on matters such as effective hygiene and disinfection, social distancing, limited and remote access working where feasible and use of protective equipment. We also are prioritizing efforts to understand and support the changing business needs of our customers and suppliers in light of restrictions that are applicable to them. At this time, we believe that our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents, along with our existing committed borrowing availability and other short-term liquidity arrangements, will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, make necessary capital asset purchases and debt repayments and meet other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations. Likewise, our current estimates indicate that we will remain in compliance with financial covenants applicable under our debt arrangements. The full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the related responses on our operational and financial performance is currently uncertain and will depend on many factors outside our control, including, without limitation, the duration and severity of the pandemic, the imposition of protective public safety measures, and the impact of the pandemic on the global economy as a whole and, in particular, demand for our products. Due to these uncertainties, we cannot reasonably estimate the related impact on us at this time. For additional information regarding the risks that we face as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, please see Item 1A, Risk Factors, in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2020. Further, to the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it also may have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the risk factors included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2020 and in our subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Results of Operations ($ in millions, except per share data) The following tables set forth select items from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) for the three months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019: 23 Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 % of Revenues % of Revenues Total revenues $ 728.1 100.0 % $ 340.4 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 441.5 60.6 217.3 63.8 Gross margin 286.6 39.4 123.1 36.2 Operating expenses: Internal research and development 78.2 10.7 36.1 10.6 Selling, general and administrative 107.2 14.7 105.5 31.0 Interest and other, net 41.6 5.7 12.0 3.5 Earnings before income taxes 59.6 8.2 (30.6) (9.0) Income taxes 13.3 1.8 (4.5) (1.3) Net earnings (loss) $ 46.3 6.4 % $ (26.0) (7.6) % Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 0.38 $ (0.39) Consolidated Revenues. Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2020 increased 114% to $728.1 million, compared to $340.4 million for the same period last fiscal year. The addition of Finisar operations contributed $337.6 million revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2020. In addition to revenue contributed by Finisar, the Company realized increased revenues within its ROADM and 3D Sensing product lines, driven by data center and 5G optical network expansions, and prior year qualifications of additional VCSEL array manufacturing lines for facial biometrics in smartphones. Gross margin. Gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2020 was $286.6 million, or 39.4% of total revenues, compared to $123.1 million, or 36.2% of total revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in the gross margin of 320 basis points for the current quarter compared to the same period last year was driven by the addition of higher margin transceiver products following the Finisar acquisition, as well as favorable product mix within the Photonic Solutions Segment. Internal research and development. Internal research and development (IR&D) expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2020 were $78.2 million, or 10.7% of revenues, compared to $36.1 million, or 10.6% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in IR&D expenses during the three-month period compared to the same period last fiscal year was primarily due to the addition of $37.0 million of Finisar IR&D expense. The Company has maintained its strong internal investments in new products and technologies focused on 3D sensing, 5G, the Cloud, electric vehicles and other emerging markets. Selling, general and administrative. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2020 were $107.2 million, or 14.7% of revenues, compared to $105.5 million, or 31.0% of revenues, for the same period last fiscal year. The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of revenue for the three-month period compared to the same period last fiscal year was primarily the result of transaction costs incurred in prior year due to the Finisar acquisition. During the three months ended September 30, 2020, the Company incurred $2.1 million of transaction related expenses, compared to $49.0 million of transaction related expenses incurred in the three months ended September 30, 2019. Interest and other, net. Interest and other, net for the three months ended September 30, 2020 was expense of $41.6 million, compared to expense of $12.0 million for the same period last fiscal year. Included in interest and other, net were interest expense on borrowings, equity earnings and losses from its unconsolidated investments, foreign currency gains and losses, expense of debt issuance costs, and interest income on excess cash balances. Interest and other, net includes expense of $24.7 million of debt issuance costs recognized in conjunction with the repayment of the Company's Term B Facility, compared to $4 million of expense recognized in the three months ended September 30, 2019. Interest expense increased $10.2 million for the current three-month period due to the higher levels of outstanding debt incurred in conjunction with the acquisition of Finisar. In addition, there were foreign currency losses of $4.7 million for the current three-month period due to the volatility in the foreign exchange market, compared to $1.1 million of expense in the three months ended September 30, 2019. Other interest and expense, net was offset by income in equity investments and other insignificant activity. 24 Table of Contents Income taxes. The Companys year-to-date effective income tax rate at September 30, 2020 was 22.3%, compared to an effective tax rate of 14.8% for the same period last fiscal year. The variations between the Companys effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 21% were primarily due to the impact of the U.S. enacted tax legislation, partially offset by research and development incentives in certain jurisdictions and foreign tax credits. Segment Reporting Revenues and operating income for the Companys reportable segments are discussed below. Operating income differs from net earnings (loss) in that operating income excludes certain operational expenses included in other expense (income) net as reported. Management believes operating income to be a useful measure for investors, as it reflects the results of segment performance over which management has direct control and is used by management in its evaluation of segment performance. See Note 14. Segment Reporting, to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information on the Companys reportable segments and for the reconciliation of the Companys operating income to net earnings (loss), which is incorporated herein by reference. Photonic Solutions ($ in millions) Three Months Ended September 30, % Increase 2020 2019 Revenues $ 497.7 $ 141.4 252% Operating income $ 50.4 $ 13.0 287% Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2020 for Photonic Solutions increased 252% to $497.7 million, compared to $141.4 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period last fiscal year was primarily due to the acquisition of Finisar and the strengthening of demand for cloud and 5G optical infrastructure products. Operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2020 increased 287% to income of $50.4 million, compared to operating income of $13.0 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in operating income during the current three-month period compared to the same period last fiscal year was primarily driven by the incremental margin realized from the increased revenues during the current fiscal quarter, and the realization of synergies and plant efficiency following the Finisar acquisition. Compound Semiconductors ($ in millions) Three Months Ended September 30, % Increase 2020 2019 Revenues $ 230.4 $ 177.0 30% Operating income $ 50.7 $ 26.5 91% Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2020 for Compound Semiconductors increased 30% to $230.4 million, compared to revenues of $177.0 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase in revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2020 primarily related to increased 3D Sensing product shipments addressing the consumer market, and growth within the telecom and datacom markets. Operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2020 increased 91% to $50.7 million, compared to operating income of $26.5 million for the same period last fiscal year. The increase of 700 basis points in operating income during the three-month period compared to the same period last fiscal year was primarily driven by strong growth within our higher margin products, including indium phosphide components for transceivers and datacenters and the 5G optical access infrastructure. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, our primary sources of cash have been from operations, long-term borrowing, and advance funding from customers. Other sources of cash include proceeds from the issuance of equity, proceeds received from the exercises of stock options, and sale of equity investments and businesses. Our historic uses of cash have been for capital expenditures, investment in research and development, business acquisitions, payments of principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, 25 Table of Contents payments of debt issuance costs to obtain financing and payments in satisfaction of employees minimum tax obligations. Supplemental information pertaining to our sources and uses of cash for the periods indicated is presented as follows: Sources (uses) of Cash (millions): Three Months Ended September 30, 2020 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 134.3 $ (25.6) Net proceeds from equity issuance 883.9 Proceeds from exercises of stock options 1.1 3.0 Proceeds on long-term borrowings 1,570.0 Debt issuance costs (63.5) Payments under prior term loan and credit facility (172.8) Payments under new long-term borrowings and credit facility (755.1) Purchases of businesses, net of cash acquired (36.1) (1,036.6) Additions to property, plant & equipment (33.8) (25.6) Payments in satisfaction of employees' minimum tax obligations (5.6) (9.4) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and other items 2.2 (4.7) Net cash provided by operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities was $134.3 million during the current three-month period compared to $25.6 million of cash used by operating activities during the same period last fiscal year. The increase in cash flows provided by operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2020 compared to the same period last fiscal year was primarily driven by additional net earnings in the quarter ended September 30, 2020 compared to the quarter ended September 30, 2019 of $65.8 million, of which $32.2 was attributable to Finisar, and incremental transaction costs in the three months ended September 30, 2019 related to the Finisar acquisition. Additional drivers of increased cash flow from operations over the prior year included incremental amortization and depreciation, along with improved working capital during the current quarter. Net cash used in investing activities: Net cash used in investing activities was $69.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to net cash used of $1,064.2 million for the same period last fiscal year. Net cash used in investing activities during the current period primarily inclu ded $36.1 million for net cash paid for the acquisition of Ascatron AB and $33.8 million of capital expenditures to increase capacity to meet the growing demand for the Companys product portfolio. Net cash used in investing activities from the three-month period ended September 30, 2019 was primarily used to fund the Finisar acquisition. Net cash provided by financing activities: Net cash provided by financing activities was $123.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2020, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $1,326.6 million for the same period last fiscal year. Net cash provided by financing activities was primarily impacted by $883.9 million of net proceeds from the Company's equity issuance in July 2020, offset by cash used to repay borrowings of $755.1 million. Senior Credit Facilities The Company currently has Senior Credit Facilities with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and the other lenders party thereto. The Credit Agreement provides for senior secured financing of $2.425 billion in the aggregate, consisting of (i) Aggregate principal amount of $1,255 million for a five-year senior secured first-lien term A loan facility (the Term A Facility), (ii) Aggregate principal amount of $720 million for a seven-year senior secured term B loan facility (the Term B Facility and together with the Term A Facility, the Term Loan Facilities), which was repaid in full during the quarter ended September 30, 2020, and (iii) Aggregate principal amount of $450 million for a five-year senior secured first-lien revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility and together with the Term Loan Facilities, the Senior Credit Facilities). 26 The Credit Agreement also provides for a letter of credit sub-facility not to exceed $25.0 million and a swing loan sub-facility initially not to exceed $20.0 million. The Term B Facility was repaid in full by the Company subsequent to the public offerings that closed on July 7, 2020. Additional information regarding the underwritten public offering is set forth in Note 12. Additional information regarding the Senior Credit Facilities is set forth in Note 9. Debt to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in Part 1, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.