Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations July 1, 2023 Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute. Such forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and beliefs, including estimates and projections about our business and include, but are not limited to, statements concerning financial position, business strategy, our industry environment, market growth expectations, and plans or objectives for future operations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and may cause actual results to differ materially from managements current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include those set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Item1A. Risk Factors. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect managements outlook at any other point in time. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason, however, readers should carefully review the risk factors set forth in other reports or documents we file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Quarterly Report. This Form 10-Q also contains estimates, projections and other information concerning our industry, our business, and the markets for certain of our products. Information that is based on estimates, forecasts, projections, market research or similar methodologies is inherently subject to uncertainties and actual events or circumstances may differ materially from events and circumstances reflected in this information. Unless otherwise expressly stated, we obtained this industry, business, market, and other data from reports, research surveys, studies, and similar data prepared by market research firms and other third parties, industry, and general publications, government data, and similar sources. OVERVIEW Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection and metrology automation systems (handlers), micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors, thermal subsystems, and semiconductor automated test equipment (ATE) used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors. We offer a wide range of products and services and our revenue from capital equipment products is driven by the capital expenditures and operating budgets of our customers, who often abruptly delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to variations in their business. The level of expenditures by these companies depends on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductor devices and the products that incorporate them. Our recurring products are driven by the number of semiconductor devices that are tested and by the continuous introduction of new products and new technologies by our customers. As a result, our recurring products provide a more stable recurring source of revenue and generally do not have the same degree of cyclicality as our capital equipment products. In 2023, global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors are shaping the semiconductor industry. In response to the higher cost of capital, many chip companies are cutting costs, reducing employee headcount, and pushing out capital expenditures for additional capacity. For the second quarter ended July 1, 2023, on a sequential, quarter-over-quarter basis, our consolidated net sales declined 5.8% to $168.9 million due to lower demand for mobility, and 5G-related products due to these global economic conditions. Over the past twelve months, we have seen improvements in our gross margin due to favorable revenue mix, and greater insourcing of contactor manufacturing. Based on the strength of current business conditions and the results from our operations, we have continued to take actions to reduce outstanding principal debt under our Term Loan Credit Facility through voluntary prepayments, and we have also repurchased 176,885 shares of our common stock for approximately $6.2 million during the first six months of 2023. We continue to focus on building a well-balanced and resilient business model. Our long-term market drivers and market strategy remain intact, and we are encouraged by increased use of semiconductors including most recent developments in Artificial Intelligence (AI), along with customer traction with our new products. We continue to capture new customers and remain optimistic about the long-term prospects for our business due to the increasing ubiquity of semiconductors, increasing semiconductor complexity, increasing quality demands from semiconductor customers, increasing test intensity and continued proliferation of electronics in a variety of products across the automotive, mobility, industrial, computing, and consumer markets. 28 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations July 1, 2023 Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the current circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our critical accounting estimates that we believe are the most important to an investors understanding of our financial results and condition and that require complex management judgment include: revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations; estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically inventory reserves, which impact gross margin or operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits, the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and accounting for the impact of the change to U.S. tax law as described herein, which impact our tax provision, and the assessment of recoverability of long-lived and indefinite-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Revenue Recognition: Our net sales are derived from the sale of products and services and are adjusted for estimated returns and allowances, which historically have been insignificant. We recognize revenue when the obligations under the terms of a contract with our customers are satisfied; generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of our systems, non-system products or services. In circumstances where control is not transferred until destination or acceptance, we defer revenue recognition until such events occur. Revenue for established products that have previously satisfied a customers acceptance requirements is generally recognized upon shipment. In cases where a prior history of customer acceptance cannot be demonstrated or from sales where customer payment dates are not determinable and in the case of new products, revenue and cost of sales are deferred until customer acceptance has been received. Our post-shipment obligations typically include installation and standard warranties. The relative standalone selling price of installation related revenue is recognized in the period the installation is performed. Service revenue is recognized over time as we transfer control to our customer for the related contract or upon completion of the services if they are short-term in nature. Spares, contactor and kit revenue is generally recognized upon shipment. Certain of our equipment sales have multiple performance obligations. These arrangements involve the delivery or performance of multiple performance obligations, and transfer of control of performance obligations may occur at different points in time or over different periods of time. For arrangements containing multiple performance obligations, the revenue relating to the undelivered performance obligation is deferred using the relative standalone selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until satisfaction of the deferred performance obligation. Unsatisfied performance obligations primarily represent contracts for products with future delivery dates. At July 1, 2023, we had $6.5 million of revenue expected to be recognized in the future related to performance obligations that were unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) for contracts with original expected durations of over one year. As allowed under ASC 606, we have opted to not disclose unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with original expected durations of less than one year. We generally sell our equipment with a product warranty. The product warranty provides assurance to customers that delivered products are as specified in the contract (an assurance-type warranty). Therefore, we account for such product warranties under ASC 460, and not as a separate performance obligation. The transaction price reflects our expectations about the consideration we will be entitled to receive from the customer and may include fixed or variable amounts. Fixed consideration primarily includes sales to customers that are known as of the end of the reporting period. Variable consideration includes sales in which the amount of consideration that we will receive is unknown as of the end of a reporting period. Such consideration primarily includes sales made to certain customers with cumulative tier volume discounts offered. Variable consideration arrangements are rare; however, when they occur, we estimate variable consideration as the expected value to which we expect to be entitled. Included in the transaction price estimate are amounts in which it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. Variable consideration that does not meet revenue recognition criteria is deferred. Our contracts are typically less than one year in duration and we have elected to use the practical expedient available in ASC 606 to expense costs to obtain contracts as they are incurred because they would be amortized over less than one year. Accounts receivable represents our unconditional right to receive consideration from our customer. Payments terms do not exceed one year from the invoice date and therefore do not include a significant financing component. To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable. There were no material contract assets or contract liabilities recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented. On shipments where sales are not recognized, gross profit is generally recorded as deferred profit in the condensed consolidated balance sheet representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the inventory shipped. 29 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations July 1, 2023 Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for credit losses for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Our customers include semiconductor manufacturers and semiconductor test subcontractors throughout many areas of the world. While we believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate and represents our best estimate of future losses, we will continue to monitor customer liquidity and other economic conditions, which may result in changes to our estimates. Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans. We record valuation reserves on our inventory for estimated excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or net realizable value concerns equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future product demand, market conditions and product selling prices. If future product demand, market conditions or product selling prices are less than those projected by management or if continued modifications to products are required to meet specifications or other customer requirements, increases to inventory reserves may be required which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Income Taxes: We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits. Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of income. We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets. Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards. Segment Information: We applied the provisions of ASC 280, which sets forth a management approach to segment reporting and establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures about products, major customers and the geographies in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue. Under ASC 280, an operating segment is defined as a component that engages in business activities whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker and for which discrete financial information is available. We have determined that our three identified operating segments are: THG, STG and ISG. Our THG, STG and ISG operating segments qualify for aggregation under ASC 280 due to similarities in their customers, their economic characteristics, and the nature of products and services provided. As a result, we report in one segment, Semiconductor Test & Inspection. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets: We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting unit. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the fair value of the reporting unit and its carrying value of goodwill, not to exceed the carrying value of goodwill. We estimate the fair values of our reporting units using a weighting of the income and market approaches. Under the income approach, we use a discounted cash flow methodology to derive an indication of value, which requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasted revenues, gross profit margins, operating income margins, working capital cash flow, perpetual growth rates, and long-term discount rates, among others. For the market approach, we use the guideline public company method. Under this method we utilize information from comparable publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting units, to create valuation multiples that are applied to the operating performance metrics of the reporting unit being tested, to obtain an indication of value. We then apply a 50/50 weighting to the indicated values from the income and market approaches to derive the fair values of the reporting units. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on customer forecasts, industry trade organization data and general economic conditions. Fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions and factors. 30 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations July 1, 2023 We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year and have determined there was no impairment as of October 1, 2022, as the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date. Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates. Other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For other intangible assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the assets carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. During the first six months of 2023, no events or conditions occurred suggesting an impairment in our goodwill and other intangible assets. Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized. Our warranty obligation estimates are affected by historical product shipment levels, product performance and material and labor costs incurred in correcting product performance problems. Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Contingencies: We are subject to certain contingencies that arise in the ordinary course of our businesses which require us to assess the likelihood that future events will confirm the existence of a loss or an impairment of an asset. If a loss or asset impairment is probable and the amount of the loss or impairment is reasonably estimable, we accrue a charge to operations in the period such conditions become known. Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit. Share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant. Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in Note 1 located in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Recent Transactions Impacting Results of Operations On January 30, 2023, we completed the acquisition of MCT and the results of its operations have been included in our condensed consolidated financial statements since that date. The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended July 1, June 25, July 1, June 25, 2023 2022 2023 2022 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (52.5 )% (53.5 )% (52.2 )% (53.7 )% Gross margin 47.5 % 46.5 % 47.8 % 46.3 % Research and development (13.3 )% (10.7 )% (12.9 )% (11.1 )% Selling, general and administrative (19.4 )% (15.0 )% (19.2 )% (15.4 )% Amortization of purchased intangible assets (5.3 )% (3.8 )% (5.1 )% (4.1 )% Restructuring charges (0.2 )% - % (0.4 )% (0.1 )% Income from operations 9.3 % 17.0 % 10.2 % 15.6 % 31 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations July 1, 2023 Second Quarter of Fiscal 2023 Compared to Second Quarter of Fiscal 2022 Net Sales Our consolidated net sales decreased 22.2% to $168.9 million in 2023, compared to $217.2 million in 2022. As compared to the prior year, during the second fiscal quarter of 2023 our net sales declined due to the current macroeconomic environment which is driving lower demand for mobility (including 5G-related products) and computing applications. Our consolidated net sales in the second quarter of 2023 also include the net sales of MCT, which was acquired on January 30, 2023, and totaled $2.5 million. Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of materials, assembly, and test labor, and overhead from operations. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to several factors, including, but not limited to, the mix and volume of products sold, product support costs, material, labor, supplier, logistics and other operating cost changes, changes to inventory reserves or the sale of previously reserved inventory and utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales for the second fiscal quarter, was 47.5% in 2023 and 46.5% in 2022. Our gross margin for the second fiscal quarter of 2023 improved compared to the prior year due to favorable product mix and increased insourcing of contactor manufacturing. Our gross margin can be impacted by charges to cost of sales related to excess, obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory issues. During the second quarter of 2023 and 2022, we recorded charges to cost of sales of $1.1 million and $1.7 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively. While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or net realizable value concerns are adequate to cover known exposures as of July 1, 2023, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, because of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our gross margin in future periods. Research and Development Expense (R&D Expense) R&D expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in ongoing research, product design and development activities, costs of engineering materials and supplies and professional consulting expenses. R&D expense was $22.5 million in 2023 and $23.2 million in 2022 representing 13.3% and 10.7% of net sales, respectively. R&D expense decreased during the second fiscal quarter of 2023 due to lower spending on material costs associated with product development during the current year. The second quarter of 2023 includes $0.2 million of incremental R&D costs from MCT. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A Expense) SG&A expense consists primarily of salaries and benefit costs of employees, commission expense for independent sales representatives, product promotion and costs of professional services. SG&A expense was $32.8 million or 19.4% of net sales in 2023, compared to $32.5 million or 15.0% in 2022. SG&A expense increased during the second fiscal quarter of 2023 because of $0.7 million of incremental SG&A costs from the operations of MCT and $0.1 million of transaction related costs incurred specifically related to the acquisition of MCT. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of purchased intangibles is the process of expensing the cost of an intangible asset acquired through a business combination over the projected life of the asset. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $9.0 million and $8.3 million in the second quarter of 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in expense recorded during the current year was a result of the amortization of acquired intangible assets from MCT. Restructuring Charges During the first quarter of 2023, we began a strategic restructuring and integration program in connection with the acquisition of MCT. In addition, subsequent to the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, during the fourth quarter of 2018, we began a strategic restructuring program designed to reposition our organization and improve our cost structure as part of our targeted integration plan regarding Xcerra. Restructuring charges recorded in the second fiscal quarter of 2023 were $0.4 million. Restructuring charges recorded in the second fiscal quarter of 2022 were not material. Restructuring costs incurred in the second fiscal quarter of 2023 relate to the integration of MCT which was acquired on January 30,2023. 32 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations July 1, 2023 See Note 4, Restructuring Charges in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to restructuring charges. Interest Expense and Income Interest expense was $0.7 million and $0.9 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2023 and 2022, respectively. Interest income was $2.7 million and $0.3 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in interest income year-over-year is a result of higher rates and higher investment balances maintained during the course of the second quarter of 2023. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740. The provision or benefit for income taxes is attributable to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes. Our effective tax rate (ETR) used for interim periods is based on an estimated annual effective tax rate, including the tax effect of items required to be recorded discretely in the interim periods in which those items occur. Our ETR is different than the statutory rate in the U.S. due to foreign income taxed at different rates than the U.S., generation of tax credits, changes in uncertain tax benefit positions, changes to valuation allowances, and the impact of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) and the Base Erosion and Anti-abuse Tax (BEAT). In addition, we have numerous tax holidays related to our manufacturing operations in Malaysia and the Philippines. The tax holiday periods expire at various times in the future; however, we actively seek to obtain new tax holidays. Our second quarter ETR reflects the impact of certain foreign earnings taxed at rates higher than the U.S. statutory rate, offset by the impact of remeasuring deferred tax assets in Malaysia due to a tax holiday scheduled to expire in June 2024, the impact of excess tax benefits relating to share-based compensation and the tax benefit of U.S research & development and foreign tax credits. We conduct business globally and as a result, Cohu or one or more of its subsidiaries files income tax returns in the US and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examinations by taxing authorities throughout the world and are currently under examination in Germany, the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand. We believe our financial statement accruals for income taxes are appropriate. In accordance with the disclosure requirements as described in ASC 740, we have classified unrecognized tax benefits as non-current income tax liabilities, or a reduction in non-current deferred tax assets, unless expected to be paid within one year. Our continuing practice is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. There were no material changes to our unrecognized tax benefits and interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits during the three months ended July 1, 2023 and June 25, 2022. Net Income As a result of the factors set forth above, our net income was $10.6 million for the three months ended July 1, 2023. For the three months ended June 25, 2022 our net income was $28.8 million. First Six Months of Fiscal 2023 Compared to First Six Months of Fiscal 2022 Net Sales Our consolidated net sales decreased 16.1% to $348.3 million in 2023, compared to $415.0 million in 2022. The decrease was due to the current macroeconomic environment which is driving lower demand for mobility (including 5G-related products) and computing applications. Our consolidated net sales in the first six months of fiscal 2023 also include the net sales of MCT, which was acquired on January 30, 2023, and totaled $7.0 million. Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 47.8% in 2023 from 46.3% in 2022. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to several factors, including, but not limited to, the mix of products sold, product support costs, material, labor, supplier, logistics and other operating cost changes, inventory reserve adjustments, and utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin for the first six months of fiscal 2023 improved compared to the prior year due to favorable product mix and increased insourcing of contactor manufacturing. In the first six months of fiscal 2023 and 2022 we recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $3.0 million and $2.5 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively. While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures as of July 1, 2023, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, because of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our results of operations and gross margin in future periods. 33 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations July 1, 2023 R&D Expense R&D expense was $45.0 million or 12.9% of net sales in 2023, compared to $46.3 million or 11.1% in 2022. R&D expense decreased during the first six months of fiscal 2023 due to lower spending on material costs associated with product development during the current year. The first six months of fiscal 2023 includes $0.4 million of incremental R&D costs from MCT. SG&A Expense SG&A expense was $67.0 million or 19.2% of net sales in 2023, compared to $63.8 million or 15.4% in 2022. SG&A expense increased during the first six months of fiscal 2023 because of higher costs incurred in the current year for labor, product support, travel and professional services. The first six months of fiscal 2023 also includes $1.1 million of incremental SG&A costs from the operations of MCT and $0.4 million of transaction related costs incurred specifically related to the acquisition of MCT. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $17.8 million and $16.9 million for the first six months of 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in expense recorded during the current year was a result of the amortization of acquired intangible assets from MCT. Restructuring Charges We recorded restructuring charges, exclusive of the specific inventory related charges described above, totaling $1.3 million and $0.6 million in the first six months of 2023 and 2022, respectively. Restructuring costs incurred in the first six months of fiscal 2023 relate to the integration of MCT which was acquired on January 30,2023, whereas restructuring expense recorded during the prior year was related to the integration of Xcerra. See Note 4, Restructuring Charges in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to restructuring charges. Interest Expense and Income Interest expense was $1.9 million in both the first six months of 2023 and 2022. Interest income was $5.5 million and $0.4 million in the first six months of 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in interest income year-over-year is a result of higher rates and higher investment balances maintained during the course of the first six months of 2023. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740. The provision or benefit for income taxes is attributable to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes. Our effective tax rate (ETR) used for interim periods is based on an estimated annual effective tax rate, including the tax effect of items required to be recorded discretely in the interim periods in which those items occur. Our ETR is different than the statutory rate in the U.S. due to foreign income taxed at different rates than the U.S., generation of tax credits, changes in uncertain tax benefit positions, changes to valuation allowances, and the impact of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) and the Base Erosion and Anti-abuse Tax (BEAT). In addition, we have numerous tax holidays related to our manufacturing operations in Malaysia and the Philippines. The tax holiday periods expire at various times in the future; however, we actively seek to obtain new tax holidays. The ETR on income for the six months ended July 1, 2023 reflects the impact of certain foreign earnings taxed at rates higher than the U.S. statutory rate, offset by the impact of remeasuring deferred tax assets in Malaysia due to a tax holiday scheduled to expire in June 2024, the impact of excess tax benefits relating to share-based compensation and the tax benefit of U.S research & development and foreign tax credits. We conduct business globally and as a result, Cohu or one or more of its subsidiaries files income tax returns in the US and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examinations by taxing authorities throughout the world and are currently under examination in Germany, the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand. We believe our financial statement accruals for income taxes are appropriate. 34 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations July 1, 2023 In accordance with the disclosure requirements as described in ASC 740, we have classified unrecognized tax benefits as non-current income tax liabilities, or a reduction in non-current deferred tax assets, unless expected to be paid within one year. Our continuing practice is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. There were no material changes to our unrecognized tax benefits and interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits during the six months ended July 1, 2023 and June 25, 2022. Net Income As a result of the factors set forth above, our net income was $26.3 million in 2023 as compared to $50.3 million in 2022. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The seasonal and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. As of July 1, 2023, $207.2 million or 75.3% of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding taxes if we repatriate these funds. Except for working capital requirements in certain jurisdictions, we provide for all withholding and other residual taxes related to unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. At July 1, 2023, our total indebtedness, net of discount and deferred financing costs, was $42.7 million, which included $30.8 million outstanding under the Term Loan Credit Facility, $2.1 million outstanding under Kitas term loans, $8.1 million outstanding under Cohu GmbHs construction loan and $1.7 million outstanding under Kitas lines of credit. During the first six months of fiscal 2023, we prepaid $34.1 million in principal of our Term Loan Credit Facility and we repurchased 176,885 shares of our outstanding common stock, to be held as treasury stock, for $6.2 million. Liquidity Working Capital:The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital: July 1, December 31, Percentage (in thousands) 2023 2022 Decrease Change Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 372,317 $ 385,576 $ (13,259 ) (3.4 )% Working capital $ 583,889 $ 603,979 $ (20,090 ) (3.3 )% Cash Flows Operating Activities:Operating cash flows for the first six months of fiscal 2023 consisted of our net income, adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities. These adjustments include depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, share-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, deferred income taxes, amortization of cloud-based software implementation costs, loss on extinguishment of debt, capitalized interest associated with cloud computing implementation, amortization of debt discounts and issuance costs and sales of property, plant and equipment. Our net cash provided by operating activities in the first six months of fiscal 2023 totaled $69.6 million. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of MCT, net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities and included increases in inventories of $4.7 million, customer advances of $3.8 million, and decreases in accounts receivable of $38.1 million, accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities of $15.1 million, income taxes payable of $2.7 million, deferred profit of $4.0 million and other current assets of $1.4 million. Purchases of materials from suppliers made to fulfill anticipated future shipments of products resulted in an increase in inventory. The increase in customer advances represents cash received from customers in advance of product shipments that are expected to occur during 2023. Accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities decreased due to payments of incentive compensation related to the prior year that was paid during the first quarter of 2023. The income taxes payable decrease was driven by an excess of payments over accruals, the decrease in accounts receivable was due to the timing of cash collections on net sales recognized in the first quarter of 2023 and the recognition of revenue that was previously deferred in accordance with our revenue recognition policy resulted in the decrease in deferred profit. Amortization of prepaid services paid for and deferred in prior periods resulted in the decrease in other current assets. 35 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations July 1, 2023 Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our business, purchases of investments, proceeds from investment maturities, business divestitures and asset disposals. Net cash provided by investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2023 totaled $12.8 million. In the first six months of fiscal 2023 we generated $90.8 million from sales and maturities and used $43.7 million of cash for purchases of short-term investments. We invest our excess cash, in an attempt to seek the highest available return while preserving capital, in short-term investments since excess cash may be required for a business-related purpose. During the first half of 2023, we also used $26.3 million of cash, net of cash received, for the acquisition of MCT which was a strategic transaction for our test handler group, adding strip, film-frame and laser marking to Cohus product portfolio, and critical technologies that will accelerate development into the growing advanced package test market. Additions to property, plant and equipment of $8.1 million were made to support our operating and development activities and include amounts related to the expansion of our Philippines factory to support our interface business. Financing Activities: Financing cash flows consist primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans, repurchases of shares made under our share repurchase program and repayments of debt, net of new borrowings. We issue restricted stock units and maintain an employee stock purchase plan as components of our overall employee compensation. In the first six months of fiscal 2023, cash used to settle the minimum statutory tax withholding requirements on behalf of our employees upon vesting of restricted and performance stock awards, net of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, was $7.3 million. We made payments totaling $6.2 million in the first six months of 2023 for shares of our common stock repurchased under our share repurchase program to be held as treasury stock. Repayments of debt during the first six months of fiscal 2023 totaled $36.5 million. Share Repurchase Program On October 28, 2021, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a $70 million share repurchase program. On October 25, 2022, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $70 million under the share repurchase program. This share repurchase program was effective as of November 2, 2021, has no expiration date, and the timing of share repurchases and the number of shares of common stock to be repurchased will depend upon prevailing market conditions and other factors. Repurchases under this program will be made using our existing cash resources and may be commenced or suspended from time-to-time at our discretion without prior notice. Repurchases may be made in the open market, through 10b5-1 programs, or in privately negotiated transactions at prevailing market rates in accordance with federal securities laws. For the six months ended July 1, 2023, we repurchased 176,885 shares of our common stock for $6.2 million to be held as treasury stock. As of July 1, 2023, $75.8 million of shares of our common stock remained available for us to repurchase under our share repurchase program. Capital Resources We have access to credit facilitates and other borrowings provided by financial institutions to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures and our operations if needed. A summary of our borrowings and available credit is as follows. Credit Agreement On October 1, 2018, we entered into a Credit Agreement providing for a $350.0 million Term Loan Credit Facility and borrowed the full amount to finance a portion of the Xcerra acquisition. Loans under the Term Loan Credit Facility amortize in equal quarterly installments of 0.25% of the original principal amount, with the balance payable at maturity. All outstanding principal and interest in respect of the Term Loan Credit Facility must be repaid on or before October 1, 2025. The loans under the Term Loan Credit Facility bore interest, at Cohus option, at a floating annual rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin of 3.00%. On June 16, 2023, in connection with the discontinuation of LIBOR, we entered into an amendment to our Term Loan Credit Facility, which provided for the transition of the benchmark interest rate from LIBOR to SOFR. Effective with the interest period beginning July 1, 2023, LIBOR was replaced with Adjusted Term SOFR, a floating annual rate equal to SOFR plus a margin of 3.0%. At July 1, 2023, the outstanding loan balance, net of discount and deferred financing costs, was $30.8 million and $3.4 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2022, the outstanding loan balance, net of discount and deferred financing costs, was $66.2 million and $3.2 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, the lender may accelerate the payment terms upon the occurrence of certain events of default set forth therein, which include: the failure of Cohu to make timely payments of amounts due under the Credit Agreement, the failure of Cohu to adhere to the representations and covenants set forth in the Credit Agreement, the failure to provide notice of any event that causes a material adverse effect or to provide other required notices, upon the event that related collateral agreements become ineffective, upon the event that certain legal judgments are entered against Cohu, the insolvency of Cohu, or upon the change of control of Cohu. As of July 1, 2023, we believe no such events of default have occurred. 36 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations July 1, 2023 During the first six months of 2023, we prepaid $34.1 million in principal of our Term Loan Credit Facility for $34.1 million in cash. We accounted for the prepayment as a debt extinguishment, which resulted in a loss of $0.4 million reflected in other expense, net, in our condensed consolidated statement of income and a $0.4 million reduction in debt discounts and deferred financing costs in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. During the first six months of 2022, we repurchased $22.0 million in principal of our Term Loan Credit Facility for $22.0 million in cash. This resulted in a loss of $0.2 million reflected in other expense in our condensed consolidated statement of income and a corresponding $0.3 million reduction in debt discounts and deferred financing costs in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Approximately $31.1 million in principal of the Term Loan Credit Facility remained outstanding as of July 1, 2023. Kita Term Loans We have a series of term loans with Japanese financial institutions primarily related to the expansion of our facility in Osaka, Japan. The loans are collateralized by the facility and land, carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.42%, and expire at various dates through 2034. At July 1, 2023, the outstanding loan balance was $2.1 million and $0.2 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2022, the outstanding loan balance was $2.5 million and $0.2 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. Construction Loans In July 2019 and June 2020, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries located in Germany entered into a series of Loan Facilities with a German financial institution initially providing it with total borrowings of up to 10.1 million. In May 2022, one of the construction loans was amended, reducing total borrowings provided under the loans to up to 9.5 million. The Loan Facilities were utilized to finance the expansion of our facility in Kolbermoor, Germany and are secured by the land and the existing building on the site. The Loan Facilities bear interest at agreed upon rates based on the facility amounts as discussed below. The first facility totaling 3.4 million has been fully drawn and is payable over 10 years at a fixed annual interest rate of 0.8%. Principal and interest payments are due each quarter over the duration of the facility ending in September 2029. The second facility totaling 5.2 million has been fully drawn and is payable over 15 years at an annual interest rate of 1.05%, which is fixed until April 2027. Principal and interest payments are due each month over the duration of the facility ending in January 2034. The third facility totaling 0.9 million has been fully drawn and is payable over 10 years at an annual interest rate of 1.2%. Principal and interest payments are due each month over the duration of the facility ending in May 2030. At July 1, 2023, total outstanding borrowings under the Loan Facilities was $8.1 million with $1.0 million of the total outstanding balance being presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2022, total outstanding borrowings under the Loan Facilities was $8.4 million with $1.0 million of the total outstanding balance being presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The loans are denominated in Euros and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of the debt approximates the carrying value at July 1, 2023. Lines of Credit As a result of our acquisition of Kita, we assumed a series of revolving credit facilities with various financial institutions in Japan. The credit facilities renew monthly and provide access to working capital totaling up to 960 million Japanese Yen of which 250 million Japanese Yen was drawn as of July 1, 2023. At July 1, 2023, total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $1.7 million. As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The revolving lines of credit are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. Our wholly owned subsidiary in Switzerland has one line of credit which provides borrowings of up to a total of 2.0 million Swiss Francs, a portion of which is reserved for tax guarantees. At July 1, 2023 and December 31, 2022, no amounts were outstanding under this line of credit. 37 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations July 1, 2023 We also have a letter of credit facility (LC Facility) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf. The LC Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit and contains customary restrictive covenants. In addition, our wholly owned subsidiary, Xcerra, has arrangements with various financial institutions for the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees. As of July 1, 2023, $0.3 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit and bank guarantees. We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Contractual Obligations: Our significant contractual obligations consist of liabilities for debt, operating leases, unrecognized tax benefits, pensions, post-retirement benefits and warranties. During the first six months of 2023, we prepaid $34.1 million in outstanding principal of our Term Loan Credit Facility. Aside from the repayment of outstanding principal of our Term Loan Credit Facility, there were no material changes to these obligations outside the ordinary course of business from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers: From time to time, we enter into commitments with our vendors and outsourcing partners to purchase inventory at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within relatively short time horizons. We typically do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for the next three months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit instruments to certain parties as required. As of July 1, 2023, $0.3 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit.