Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations June 28, 2025 Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute. Such forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and beliefs, including estimates and projections about our business and include, but are not limited to, statements concerning financial position, business strategy, our industry environment, market growth expectations, and plans or objectives for future operations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and may cause actual results to differ materially from managements current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include those set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Item1A. Risk Factors. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect managements outlook at any other point in time. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason, however, readers should carefully review the risk factors set forth in other reports or documents we file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Quarterly Report. This Form 10-Q also contains estimates, projections and other information concerning our industry, our business, and the markets for certain of our products. Information that is based on estimates, forecasts, projections, market research or similar methodologies is inherently subject to uncertainties and actual events or circumstances may differ materially from events and circumstances reflected in this information. Unless otherwise expressly stated, we obtained this industry, business, market, and other data from reports, research surveys, studies, and similar data prepared by market research firms and other third parties, industry, and general publications, government data, and similar sources. OVERVIEW Cohu is a leading supplier of test and inspection metrology systems and data analytics software to optimize semiconductor manufacturing yield and productivity. We offer a wide range of products and services and our revenue from capital equipment products is driven by the capital expenditure and operating budgets of our customers, who often abruptly delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to variations in their business. The level of expenditure by these companies depends on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductor devices and the products that incorporate them. Our recurring products are driven by the number of semiconductor devices that are tested and by the continuous introduction of new products and new technologies by our customers. As a result, our recurring products provide a more stable recurring source of revenue and generally do not have the same degree of cyclicality as our capital equipment products. Global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors have impacted the semiconductor industry. In response to the higher cost of capital, slowing customer demand, and inventory levels higher than target, many semiconductor companies have been cutting costs, reducing employee headcount, and pushing out capital expenditures for additional capacity. For the three-month period ending June 28, 2025, our net sales increased 2.8%, on a year-over-year basis, to $107.7 million. In response to the current economic conditions, we initiated a global restructuring program designed to improve profitability without negatively impacting product development activities. Once fully implemented in 2025, quarterly cost savings are expected to total approximately $2.0 million including $1.0 million from manufacturing overhead and $1.0 million from operating expenses. Based on our ongoing assessment of business conditions in the semiconductor industry and the results from our operations, we repurchased 432,288 shares of our common stock for approximately $8.6 million during the six-month period ending June 28, 2025. We continue to focus on building a well-balanced and resilient business model, executing on customer design-wins and in developing innovative products. Our long-term market drivers and market strategy remain intact, and we are encouraged by increased use of semiconductors including the most recent developments in artificial intelligence (AI), along with customer traction with our new products. We continue to capture new customers and new opportunities and remain optimistic about the long-term prospects for our business due to the increasing ubiquity of semiconductors, increasing semiconductor complexity, increasing quality demands from semiconductor customers, increasing test intensity, increasing focus on automation and Industry 4.0 initiatives, and continued proliferation of electronics in a variety of products across the automotive, mobile, industrial, computing, and consumer markets. 29 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations June 28, 2025 Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our critical accounting estimates that we believe are the most important to investors understanding of our financial results and condition and require complex management judgment include: revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations; estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically inventory reserves, which impact gross margin or operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits, the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and accounting for the impact of the change to U.S. tax law as described herein, which impact our tax provision; and the assessment of recoverability of goodwill, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Revenue Recognition: Our net sales are derived from the sale of products and services and are adjusted for estimated returns and allowances, which historically have been insignificant. We recognize revenue when the obligations under the terms of a contract with our customers are satisfied; generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of our systems and non-system products or the completion of services. In circumstances where control is not transferred until destination or acceptance, we defer revenue recognition until such events occur. Revenue for established products that have previously satisfied a customers acceptance requirements is generally recognized upon shipment. In cases where a prior history of customer acceptance cannot be demonstrated and in the case of new products, revenue and cost of sales are deferred until customer acceptance has been received. Our post-shipment obligations typically include standard warranties. Service revenue is recognized over time as the transfer of control is completed for the related contract or upon completion of the services if they are short-term in nature. Spares, contactor and kit revenue is generally recognized upon shipment. Certain of our equipment sales have multiple performance obligations. These arrangements involve the delivery or performance of multiple performance obligations, that may occur at different points in time or over different periods of time. For arrangements containing multiple performance obligations, the revenue relating to the undelivered performance obligation is deferred using the relative standalone selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until satisfaction of the deferred performance obligation. Unsatisfied performance obligations primarily represent contracts for products with future delivery dates. On June 28, 2025, we had $4.7 million of revenue expected to be recognized in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) with expected durations of over one year. As allowed under ASC 606, we have opted not to disclose unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with original expected durations of less than one year. We generally sell our equipment with a product warranty. The product warranty provides assurance to customers that delivered products are as specified in the contract (an assurance-type warranty). Therefore, we account for such product warranties under ASC 460, and not as a separate performance obligation. The transaction price reflects our expectations about the consideration we will be entitled to receive from the customer and may include fixed or variable amounts. Fixed consideration primarily includes sales to customers that are known as of the end of the reporting period. Variable consideration includes sales in which the amount of consideration that we will receive is unknown as of the end of a reporting period. Such consideration primarily includes sales made to certain customers with cumulative tier volume discounts offered. Variable consideration arrangements are rare; however, when they occur, we estimate variable consideration as the expected value to which we expect to be entitled. Included in the transaction price estimate are amounts for which it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. This estimate is based on information available for projected future sales. Variable consideration that does not meet revenue recognition criteria is deferred. Accounts receivable represents our unconditional right to receive consideration from our customer. Payments terms do not exceed one year from the invoice date and therefore do not include a significant financing component. To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable. There were no material contract assets or contract liabilities recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented. On shipments where sales are not recognized, gross profit is generally recorded as deferred profit in the condensed consolidated balance sheet representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the inventory shipped. 30 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations June 28, 2025 Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for estimated credit losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Our customers include semiconductor manufacturers and semiconductor test subcontractors throughout many areas of the world. While we believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate and represents our best estimate of future losses, we will continue to monitor customer liquidity and other economic conditions, which may result in changes to our estimates. Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans. We record valuation reserves on our inventory for estimated excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or net realizable value concerns equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future product demand, market conditions and product selling prices. If future product demand, market conditions or product selling prices are less than those projected by management or if continued modifications to products are required to meet specifications or other customer requirements, increases to inventory reserves may be required which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Income Taxes: We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes; and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits. Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the condensed consolidated balance sheet. The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations. We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets. Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of research and development costs that are required to be capitalized under IRC Section 174, net of related amortization, reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax, and tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards. Segment Information: We applied the provisions of ASC 280, which sets forth a management approach to segment reporting and establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures about products, major customers and the geographies in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue. An operating segment is defined as a component that engages in business activities whose operating results are reviewed by the CODM and for which discrete financial information is available. We have determined that our three identified operating segments are: TH, ST and IS. Our three operating segments qualify for aggregation under ASC 280 due to similarities in their customers, their economic characteristics, and the nature of products and services provided. As a result, we report in one segment, Semiconductor Test & Inspection. Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Other Long-lived Assets: We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting unit. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the fair value of the reporting unit and its carrying value, not to exceed the carrying value of goodwill. We estimate the fair values of our reporting units using a weighting of the income and market approaches. Under the income approach, we use a discounted cash flow methodology to derive an indication of value, which requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasted revenues, gross profit margins, operating income margins, working capital cash flow, perpetual growth rates, and long-term discount rates, among others. For the market approach, we use the guideline public company method. Under this method we utilize information from comparable publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting units, to create valuation multiples that are applied to the operating performance metrics of the reporting unit being tested, to obtain an indication of value. We then apply a 50/50 weighting to the indicated values from the income and market approaches to derive the fair values of the reporting units. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on customer forecasts, industry trade organization data and general economic conditions. Fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions and factors. 31 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations June 28, 2025 We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st each year and determined there was no impairment as of October 1, 2024, as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date. Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates. While a decline in stock price and market capitalization is not specifically cited as a goodwill impairment indicator, a companys stock price and market capitalization should be considered in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Additionally, a significant decline in a companys stock price may suggest that an adverse change in the business climate may have caused the fair value of one or more reporting units to fall below their carrying value. The current financial market volatility caused directly impacts our fair value measurement through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. As of June 28, 2025, we do not believe there have been any events or circumstances that would require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment review, however, a sustained decline in Cohus market capitalization below its book value could lead us to determine, in a future period, that an interim goodwill impairment review is required and may result in an impairment charge which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the assets carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. During the first six months of fiscal 2025, no events or conditions occurred suggesting an impairment in our long-lived assets. Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized. Our warranty obligation estimates are affected by historical product shipment levels, product performance and material and labor costs incurred in correcting product performance problems. Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Contingencies: We are subject to certain contingencies that arise in the ordinary course of our businesses which require us to assess the likelihood that future events will confirm the existence of a loss or an impairment of an asset. If a loss or asset impairment is probable and the amount of the loss or impairment is reasonably estimable, we accrue a charge to operations in the period such conditions become known. Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit. When granted, share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant. Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in Note 1 located in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Recent Transactions Impacting Results of Operations On January 7, 2025, we completed the acquisition of Tignis. Tignis has been included in our condensed consolidated results of operations as of the date of acquisition. 32 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations June 28, 2025 The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: Three Months Ended Six Months Ended June 28, June 29, June 28, June 29, 2025 2024 2025 2024 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (56.3 )% (55.2 )% (56.3 )% (54.7 )% Gross margin 43.7 % 44.8 % 43.7 % 45.3 % Research and development (21.5 )% (20.4 )% (22.7 )% (20.6 )% Selling, general and administrative (27.7 )% (30.7 )% (29.3 )% (31.6 )% Amortization of purchased intangible assets (9.4 )% (9.3 )% (9.7 )% (9.2 )% Restructuring charges (1.1 )% 0.0 % (3.8 )% 0.0 % Loss from operations (16.0 )% (15.6 )% (21.8 )% (16.1 )% Second Quarter of Fiscal 2025 Compared to Second Quarter of Fiscal 2024 Net Sales Our consolidated net sales increased 2.8% to $107.7 million in 2025, compared to $104.7 million in 2024. Net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2025 were impacted by the current global macroeconomic environment which continues to show lower demand for automotive industrial and consumer applications, however, in the second quarter of fiscal 2025 we saw increased demand for mobile and AI-based computing applications as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2024. Cohu acquired Tignis on January 7, 2025, and the results of its operations are included since that date. In the second quarter of fiscal 2025, Tignis net sales were not material to Cohu. Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of materials, assembly, test labor, and overhead from operations. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix and volume of products sold, product support costs, changes in inventory reserves, the sale of previously reserved inventory and business volume which impacts the utilization of our manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales for the second fiscal quarter, was 43.7% in 2025 and 44.8% in 2024. Gross margin in the second quarter of fiscal 2025 declined as it was impacted by the mix of systems sold to customers, and $0.3 million of additional manufacturing employee compensation and inventory charges resulting from transitioning certain of our manufacturing activities from the U.S. and Europe to our factories in the Philippines and Malaysia. We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using inventory usage forecasts. During the second quarter of fiscal 2025 and 2024, we recorded charges to cost of sales of $1.5 million and $0.3 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively. We believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or net realizable value are adequate to cover known exposures as of June 28, 2025. Further reductions in customer forecasts, continued modifications to products, or our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our gross margin in future periods. Research and Development Expense (R&D Expense) R&D expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in ongoing research, product design and development activities, costs of engineering materials and supplies and professional consulting expenses. R&D expense was $23.2 million in fiscal 2025 and $21.3 million in fiscal 2024 representing 21.5% and 20.4% of net sales, respectively. During the second quarter of fiscal 2025 R&D expenses increased due to higher material costs associated with new product development and $0.9 million of incremental costs from the Tignis business. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A Expense) SG&A expense consists primarily of salaries and benefit costs of employees, commission expense for independent sales representatives, product promotion and costs of professional services. SG&A expense was $29.9 million or 27.7% of net sales in fiscal 2025, compared to $32.1 million or 30.7% in fiscal 2024. SG&A expense during the second fiscal quarter of 2025 was down on a year-over-year basis due to lower incentive compensation due to current business conditions and cost controls. SG&A expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2025 includes $0.6 million of incremental SG&A costs from the operations of Tignis. The second quarter of fiscal 2024 included $1.2 million of one-time severance costs resulting from manufacturing transition related to the expansion of our factories in the Philippines and Malaysia. Transaction related costs incurred related to the acquisition of Tignis incurred in the second quarter of fiscal 2025 were not significant. 33 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations June 28, 2025 Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of purchased intangibles is the process of expensing the cost of an intangible asset acquired through a business combination over the projected life of the asset. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $10.0 million and $9.7 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase in expense recorded during the second quarter of fiscal 2025 resulted from the amortization of acquired intangible assets from the acquisition of Tignis. Restructuring Charges During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we made the decision to transition all remaining volume manufacturing out of Poway, CA, and consolidate it into our factories in Asia. Restructuring costs incurred in the second quarter of fiscal 2025 related to the Poway volume manufacturing transition totaled $0.8 million. During the first quarter of fiscal 2025, we began executing a strategic restructuring program designed to reposition our global organization and improve our cost structure. Restructuring costs incurred in the second quarter of fiscal 2025 related to the 2025 Restructuring Program totaled $0.4 million. Amounts for restructuring recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2024 were not material. See Note 4, Restructuring Charges in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to restructuring charges. Interest Expense and Income Interest expense was $0.1 million in both the second fiscal quarter of 2025 and 2024, respectively. Interest income was $1.4 million and $2.3 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2025 and 2024, respectively. The decrease in interest income year-over-year is a result of lower investment balances in fiscal 2025 due to the acquisition of Tignis. Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740. The provision or benefit for income taxes is attributable to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes. Our effective tax rate (ETR) used for interim periods is based on an estimated annual effective tax rate, adjusted for the tax effect of items required to be recorded discretely in the interim periods in which those items occur. Our ETR is different than the statutory rate in the U.S. due to foreign income taxed at different rates than the U.S., generation of tax credits, changes in uncertain tax benefit positions, changes to valuation allowances, and the impact of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI). In addition, we have numerous tax holidays related to our manufacturing operations in Malaysia and the Philippines. The tax holiday periods expire at various times in the future; however, we actively seek to obtain new tax holidays. Our second quarter 2025 ETR is higher than the second quarter 2024 ETR primarily due to a change in mix of income between tax jurisdictions, an increase in our uncertain tax positions, and certain true ups. We conduct business globally and as a result, Cohu or one or more of its subsidiaries files income tax returns in the US and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examinations by taxing authorities throughout the world and are currently under examination in the United States, Germany, the Philippines, Malaysia, Switzerland and California. We believe our financial statement accruals for income taxes are appropriate. In accordance with the disclosure requirements as described in ASC 740, we have classified unrecognized tax benefits as non-current income tax liabilities, or a reduction in non-current deferred tax assets, unless expected to be paid within one year. Our continuing practice is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. Net Loss As a result of the factors set forth above, our net loss was $16.9 million for the three months ended June 28, 2025 and $15.8 million for the three months ended June 29, 2024. First Six Months of Fiscal 2025 Compared to First Six Months of Fiscal 2024 Net Sales Our consolidated net sales decreased 3.7% to $204.5 million in 2025, compared to $212.3 million in 2024. The decrease in net sales recognized for the first six months of fiscal 2025 resulted from the current global macroeconomic environment which continues to show lower demand for automotive, industrial, and mobile applications partly offset by increased demand for AI-based computing applications. Cohu acquired Tignis on January 7, 2025, and the results of its operations are included since that date. For the first six months of fiscal 2025, Tignis net sales were not material to Cohu. 34 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations June 28, 2025 Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 43.7% in 2025 from 45.3% in 2024. Gross margin during the first six months of fiscal 2025 declined as it was impacted by the mix of systems sold to customers and $0.5 million of additional manufacturing employee compensation and inventory charges resulting from transitioning certain of our manufacturing activities from the U.S. and Europe to our factories in the Philippines and Malaysia. In the first six months of fiscal 2025 and 2024 we recorded charges to cost of sales for excess and obsolete inventory of approximately $3.2 million and $2.0 million, respectively. We believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures as of June 28, 2025. Reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, or our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our results of operations and gross margin in future periods. R&D Expense R&D expense was $46.3 million or 22.7% of net sales in 2025, compared to $43.7 million or 20.6% in 2024. R&D expense increased during the first six months of fiscal 2025 due to higher material costs associated with new product development during the current year. Additionally, the first six months of fiscal 2025 included $1.9 million of incremental costs from Tignis. SG&A Expense SG&A expense was $59.9 million or 29.3% of net sales in 2025, compared to $67.2 million or 31.6% in 2024. The relative decrease in SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales is a result of lower sales in the first six months of fiscal 2025. SG&A expense during the first six months of fiscal 2025 was down on a year-over-year basis due to lower incentive compensation due to current business conditions and a $1.7 million benefit from and adjustment made to contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Tignis. SG&A expense during the first six months of fiscal 2025 includes $0.1 million of one-time severance costs resulting from manufacturing transition related to the expansion of our factories in the Philippines and Malaysia, $1.2 million of incremental SG&A costs from the operations of Tignis, and $0.3 million of transaction costs related to our acquisition of Tignis. The first six months of fiscal 2024 included $2.9 million of one-time severance costs resulting from manufacturing transition related to the expansion of our factories in the Philippines and Malaysia and a $1.0 million impairment charge related to our investment in Fraes-und Technologiezentrum GmbH Frasdorf (FTZ), a company based in Germany that provides milling services to one of our wholly owned subsidiaries and $0.2 million of transaction costs related to our acquisition of MCT and EQT. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $19.9 million and $19.5 million for the first six months of 2025 and 2024, respectively. The increase in expense recorded during the first six months of fiscal 2025 was a result of the amortization of acquired intangible assets from Tignis. Restructuring Charges During the first six months of fiscal 2025, we began executing a strategic restructuring program designed to reposition our global organization and improve our cost structure. Restructuring costs incurred in the first six months of fiscal 2025 related to the 2025 Restructuring Program totaled $6.6 million. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we made the decision to transition all remaining volume manufacturing out of Poway, CA, and consolidate it into our factories in Asia. Restructuring costs incurred in the first six months of fiscal 2025 related to the Poway volume manufacturing transition totaled $1.2 million. Restructuring charges incurred in the first six months of fiscal 2024 were not material. See Note 4, Restructuring Charges in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to restructuring charges. Interest Expense and Income Interest expense was $0.3 million and $0.4 million in the first six months of 2025 and 2024, respectively. On February 9, 2024, we repaid the remaining outstanding amounts owed under our Term Loan Credit Facility. Interest income was $3.0 million and $5.0 million in the first six months of 2025 and 2024, respectively. The year-over-year decrease resulted from lower cash and investment balances in the first six months of fiscal 2025 due to the repayment of the Term Loan Credit Facility and the acquisition of Tignis. 35 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations June 28, 2025 Income Taxes We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740. The provision or benefit for income taxes is attributable to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes. Our effective tax rate (ETR) used for interim periods is based on an estimated annual effective tax rate, adjusted for the tax effect of items required to be recorded discretely in the interim periods in which those items occur. Our ETR is different than the statutory rate in the U.S. due to foreign income taxed at different rates than the U.S., generation of tax credits, changes in uncertain tax benefit positions, changes to valuation allowances, and the impact of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI). In addition, we have numerous tax holidays related to our manufacturing operations in Malaysia and the Philippines. The tax holiday periods expire at various times in the future; however, we actively seek to obtain new tax holidays. The ETR on income for the six months ended June 28, 2025 is higher than the ETR for the six months ended June 29, 2024 primarily due to a change in mix of income between tax jurisdictions and an increase in our uncertain tax positions. We conduct business globally and as a result, Cohu or one or more of its subsidiaries files income tax returns in the US and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examinations by taxing authorities throughout the world and are currently under examination in the United States, Germany, the Philippines, Malaysia, Switzerland and California. We believe our financial statement accruals for income taxes are appropriate. In accordance with the disclosure requirements in ASC 740, we have classified unrecognized tax benefits as non-current income tax liabilities, or a reduction in non-current deferred tax assets, unless expected to be paid within one year. Our continuing practice is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. There were no material changes to our unrecognized tax benefits and interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits during the six months ended June 28, 2025. Net Loss As a result of the factors set forth above, our net loss was $47.7 million for the six months ended June 28, 2025. For the six months ended June 29, 2024, our net loss was $30.4 million. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our business is generally dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The cyclical, seasonal and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by operations and we manage our business to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. As of June 28, 2025, $131.6 million or 80.0% of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding taxes if we repatriate these funds. Except for working capital requirements in certain jurisdictions, we provide for all withholding and other residual taxes related to unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. On June 28, 2025, our total indebtedness included $1.8 million outstanding under Kitas term loans, $6.8 million outstanding under Cohu GmbHs construction loan, $8.9 million outstanding under Cohu Malaysias revolving credit facility and $0.9 million outstanding under Kitas lines of credit. We repurchased 432,288 shares of our outstanding common stock, to be held as treasury stock, for $8.6 million, during the first six months of fiscal 2025. We believe that our sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by a decrease in demand for our products. In addition, we may make acquisitions or increase our capital expenditures and may need to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to provide for greater flexibility to fund these activities. Additional financing may not be available or not available on terms favorable to us. 36 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations June 28, 2025 Liquidity Working Capital:The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital: June 28, December 28, Percentage (in thousands) 2025 2024 Decrease Change Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 209,411 $ 262,092 $ (52,681 ) (20.1 )% Working capital $ 390,448 $ 449,123 $ (58,675 ) (13.1 )% Cash Flows Operating Activities:Operating cash flows for the first six months of fiscal 2025 consisted of our net loss, adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities. These adjustments include depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, share-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, deferred income taxes, amortization of cloud-based software implementation costs, adjustments to contingent consideration, amortization of debt discounts and issuance costs, pension curtailment gains and gains on sales of property, plant and equipment. Our net cash provided by operating activities in the first six months of fiscal 2025 totaled $5.9 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities and included increases in accounts payable of $14.7 million, other current assets of $8.8 million, income taxes payable of $3.5 million, deferred profit of $1.3 million, accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities of $1.6 million, decreases in accounts receivable of $4.6 million and inventory of $1.2 million. The increase in accounts payable is a result of the timing of payments to suppliers. Other current assets, which includes prepaids and income taxes receivable, increased from prepayments of certain expenses that will be utilized throughout fiscal 2025 and the timing difference of accrual and receipt of income taxes. Changes in income taxes payable are a result of the estimation and timing of income taxes in certain jurisdictions in which we operate. The increase in deferred profit is due to deferrals of revenue made in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. Accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities increased due to accruals for restructuring severance, offset by payments of incentive compensation related to the prior year that were paid in the first quarter of 2025. The decrease in accounts receivable was a result of the timing of cash collections and inventory decreased due to a reduction in purchases in response to current business conditions. Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our business, purchases of investments, business acquisitions and proceeds from investment maturities, and asset disposals. Our net cash used in investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2025 totaled $34.7 million. We generated $36.6 million from sales and maturities and used $25.5 million of cash for purchases of short-term investments in the first six months of fiscal 2025. We invest our excess cash, in an attempt to seek the highest available return while preserving capital, in short-term investments since excess cash may be required for a business-related purpose. Additions to property, plant and equipment in the first six months of fiscal 2025 were $13.6 million, and were made to support our operating and development activities. Cash received for the settlement of net investment hedges totaled $2.6 million in first six months of fiscal 2025 and in the first six months of fiscal 2025, we used $34.9 million of cash, net of cash received, for the acquisition of Tignis, which was a strategic transaction of AI-driven data analytics software for our interface solutions group. Financing Activities: Financing cash flows consist primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans and repayments of debt. We issue restricted stock units, including performance stock units, and maintain an employee stock purchase plan as components of our overall employee compensation. In the first six months of fiscal 2025, cash used to settle the minimum statutory tax withholding requirements on behalf of our employees upon vesting of restricted and performance stock awards, net of proceeds from shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan, was $0.5 million. We made payments totaling $8.6 million in the first six months of fiscal 2025 for shares of our common stock repurchased under our share repurchase program to be held as treasury stock. Proceeds from borrowings on a revolving line of credit used to finance the purchase of our factory in Malaysia were $8.7 million during the first six months of fiscal 2025. Repayments of debt during the first six months of fiscal 2025 totaled $0.7 million. Share Repurchase Program On October 28, 2021, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a $70 million share repurchase program. This share repurchase program was effective as of November 2, 2021, and has no expiration date. On October 25, 2022, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $70 million under the share repurchase program. The timing of share repurchases and the number of shares of common stock to be repurchased will depend upon prevailing market conditions and other factors. Repurchases under this program will be made using our existing cash resources and may be commenced or suspended from time to time at our discretion without prior notice. Repurchases may be made in the open market, through 10b5-1 programs, or in privately negotiated transactions at prevailing market rates in accordance with federal securities laws. For the six months ended June 28, 2025, we repurchased 432,288 shares of our common stock for $8.6 million to be held as treasury stock. As of June 28, 2025, $22.8 million remained available for us to repurchase shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program. 37 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations June 28, 2025 Capital Resources We have access to credit facilities and other borrowings provided by financial institutions to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures and our operations if needed. A summary of our borrowings and available credit is as follows. Credit Agreement On October 1, 2018, we entered into a Credit Agreement providing for a $350.0 million Term Loan Credit Facility and borrowed the full amount to finance a portion of the Xcerra acquisition. Loans under the Term Loan Credit Facility amortize in equal quarterly installments of 0.25% of the original principal amount, with the balance payable at maturity. All outstanding principal and interest in respect of the Term Loan Credit Facility would have been due on or before October 1, 2025. On February 9, 2024, we made a cash payment of $29.3 million to repay the remaining outstanding amounts owed under our Term Loan Credit Facility. We accounted for the transaction as a debt extinguishment, and in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 we recognized a loss of $0.2 million in our condensed consolidated statement of operations due to the recognition of the remaining debt discount and deferred financing costs. Kita Term Loans We have a series of term loans with Japanese financial institutions primarily related to the expansion of our facility in Osaka, Japan. The loans are collateralized by the facility and land, carry interest at rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.95%, and expire at various dates through 2034. At June 28, 2025, the outstanding loan balance was $1.8 million and $0.2 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. At December 28, 2024, the outstanding loan balance was $1.7 million and $0.2 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. Construction Loans In July 2019 and June 2020, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries located in Germany entered into a series of Loan Facilities with a German financial institution providing it with total borrowings of up to 10.1 million. The Loan Facilities were utilized to finance the expansion of our facility in Kolbermoor, Germany and are secured by the land and the existing building on the site. The Loan Facilities bear interest at agreed upon rates based on the facility amounts as discussed below. The first facility totaling 3.4 million has been fully drawn and is payable over 10 years at a fixed annual interest rate of 0.8%. Principal and interest payments are due each quarter over the duration of the facility ending in September 2029. The second facility totaling 5.2 million has been fully drawn and is payable over 15 years at an annual interest rate of 1.05%, which is fixed until April 2027. Principal and interest payments are due each month over the duration of the facility ending in January 2034. The third facility totaling 0.9 million has been fully drawn and is payable over 10 years at an annual interest rate of 1.2%. Principal and interest payments are due each month over the duration of the facility ending in May 2030. At June 28, 2025, total outstanding borrowings under the Loan Facilities was $6.8 million with $1.1 million of the total outstanding balance being presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. At December 28, 2024, total outstanding borrowings under the Loan Facilities was $6.5 million with $0.9 million of the total outstanding balance being presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The loans are denominated in Euros and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of the debt approximates the carrying value at June 28, 2025. Revolving Credit Facility On December 30, 2024, our wholly owned subsidiary in Malaysia entered into a revolving credit facility with a Malaysian financial institution that provides up to MYR 40 million, of which MYR 37.6 million was subsequently withdrawn. The revolving credit facility was utilized to finance the purchase of our leased facility in Melaka, Malaysia. Interest is due monthly and is calculated based on the lenders Effective Cost of Funds (ECOF) plus a spread of 0.5%. The revolving credit facility is secured by the land and building. At June 28, 2025, $8.9 million was outstanding under the revolving credit facility and the rate of interest was 4.23%. As this revolving credit facility agreement renews monthly, it has been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The revolving credit is denominated in Malaysian Ringgits and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. 38 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations June 28, 2025 Lines of Credit As a result of our acquisition of Kita, we assumed a series of revolving credit facilities with various financial institutions in Japan. The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to 960 million Japanese Yen of which 135 million Japanese Yen is drawn. At June 28, 2025, total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $0.9 million. As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. The revolving lines of credit are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. Our wholly owned subsidiary in Switzerland has one available line of credit which provides it with borrowings of up to a total of 2.0 million Swiss Francs, a portion of which is reserved for tax guarantees. On June 28, 2025, and December 28, 2024, no amounts were outstanding under this line of credit. We also have a letter of credit facility (LC Facility) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf. The LC Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit and contains customary restrictive covenants. In addition, our wholly owned subsidiary, Xcerra, has arrangements with various financial institutions for the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees. On June 28, 2025, $0.4 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit and bank guarantees. We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Contractual Obligations: Our significant contractual obligations consist of liabilities for debt, operating leases, unrecognized tax benefits, pensions, post-retirement benefits and warranties. In June 2025, we gained access to our new corporate headquarters located in San Diego, California enabling us to make certain preparations for our relocation on January 1, 2026. The new lease will result in cash outflows totaling $34.9 million expected to be paid as follows: $2.5 million, $3.0 million, $2.6 million, $3.0 million and $23.8 million for 2026, 2027, 2028, 2029 and thereafter, respectively. On December 30, 2024, we purchased our leased facility in Malaysia, decreasing our financing lease liability by $8.4 million. The transaction was financed with proceeds from a revolving credit facility that our Malaysian subsidiary entered into. Aside from the items discussed above, there were no material changes to these obligations outside the ordinary course of business from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2024. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers: From time to time, we enter into commitments with our vendors and outsourcing partners to purchase inventory at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within relatively short time horizons. We typically do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for the next three months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit to certain parties as required. As of June 28, 2025, $0.4 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit