managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included in Part II, Item 7. In June 2015, we sold our mobile microwave communications equipment business and in June 2014, we sold our video camera business. The operating results of these businesses are being presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Additional information related to the sale of these businesses is included in Note 4, Discontinued Operations in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. On December 31, 2012, we purchased Ismeca Semiconductor Holding SA (Ismeca) and the results of its operations have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since that date. All amounts presented below exclude any impact from the acquisition of Kita, which was completed on January 4, 2017, subsequent to the end of fiscal 2016. See Note 2, Subsequent Event, included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. Years Ended, Dec. 31 Dec. 26 Dec. 27 Dec. 28 Dec. 29 (in thousands, except per share data) 2016 (1) 2015 2014 2013 2012 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net sales $ 282,084 $ 269,654 $ 316,629 $ 214,511 $ 179,449 Income (loss) from continuing operations (2) $ 3,260 $ 5,792 $ 14,780 $ (28,548 ) $ (11,255 ) Net income (loss) $ 3,039 $ 250 $ 8,708 $ (33,418 ) $ (12,243 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations - basic $ 0.12 $ 0.22 $ 0.58 $ (1.15 ) $ (0.46 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations - diluted $ 0.12 $ 0.22 $ 0.57 $ (1.15 ) $ (0.46 ) Net income (loss) - basic $ 0.11 $ 0.01 $ 0.34 $ (1.34 ) $ (0.50 ) Net income (loss) - diluted $ 0.11 $ 0.01 $ 0.33 $ (1.34 ) $ (0.50 ) Cash dividends per share, paid quarterly $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total Consolidated Assets $ 345,512 $ 345,346 $ 344,765 $ 345,423 $ 334,873 Working Capital $ 176,460 $ 171,272 $ 142,194 $ 125,837 $ 184,703 (1) The year ended December 31, 2016 consists of 53 weeks. All other years in the table above are comprised of 52 weeks. (2) Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 26, 2015 includes a gain on the sale of facility totaling $3.2 million. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. OVERVIEW Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal sub-systems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors. Our business is significantly dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors, which in turn is dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors that is subject to seasonal trends. We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be seasonal and volatile in part because consumer electronics, the principal end market for integrated circuits, is a highly dynamic industry and demand has traditionally fluctuated. Orders for semiconductor test and assembly equipment as reported by Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) increased sequentially each month from October 2015 through January 2016 followed by declining orders in February and March 2016. The downward order momentum within the back-end equipment segment ceased in March 2016 with global orders for equipment increasing during the second quarter reaching a peak in June and then declining throughout the second half of the year until rebounding in December. Our net sales in 2016 were up 4.6% from 2015 and benefitted from demand for equipment for testing devices used in mobile, automotive and computing applications. We monitor our customers test floors, and equipment utilization increased slightly at the end of the year. Looking ahead, we see momentum in the automotive and mobile markets and are optimistic about the long-term prospects for the semiconductor equipment industry due to the increasing technological functionality of mobile devices, growing integrated circuit and LED content in automobiles and consumer products, and expanding applications in industrial. We are focused on growing our market share in the mobility, automotive and solid state markets and expanding into the test contacting and wafer level package test markets. 17 Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our critical accounting estimates that we believe are the most important to investors understanding of our financial results and condition and require complex management judgment include: revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations; estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically product warranty, inventory reserves and allowance for bad debts, which impact gross margin or operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, which impact our tax provision; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation; and the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Revenue Recognition: We generally recognize revenue upon shipment and title passage for established products (i.e., those that have previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements) that provide for full payment tied to shipment. Revenue for products that have not previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements or from sales where customer payment dates are not determinable is recognized upon customer acceptance. In certain instances, customer payment terms may provide that a minority portion (e.g. up to 20%) of the equipment purchase price be paid only upon customer acceptance. In those situations, the majority portion (e.g. 80%) of revenue where the contingent payment is tied to shipment and the entire product cost of sale are recognized upon shipment and passage of title and the minority portion of the purchase price related to customer acceptance is deferred and recognized upon receipt of customer acceptance. For arrangements containing multiple elements the revenue relating to the undelivered elements is deferred using the relative selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until delivery of the deferred elements. We limit the amount of revenue recognition for delivered elements to the amount that is not contingent on the future delivery of products or services, future performance obligations or subject to customer-specified return or adjustment. On shipments where sales are not recognized, gross profit is generally recorded as deferred profit in our consolidated balance sheet, representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the inventory shipped. Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized. Our warranty obligation estimates are affected by historical product shipment levels, product performance, and material and labor costs incurred in correcting product performance problems. Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. 18 Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans. We record valuation reserves on our inventory for estimated excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future product demand, market conditions and product selling prices. If future product demand, market conditions or product selling prices are less than those projected by management or if continued modifications to products are required to meet specifications or other customer requirements, increases to inventory reserves may be required, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Income Taxes: We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits. Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations. We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets. Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of December 31, 2016 was approximately $47.3 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $44.7 million. Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carry-forwards. Segment Information : We applied the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 280, Segment Reporting , (ASC 280), which sets forth a management approach to segment reporting and establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures about products, major customers and the geographies in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue. An operating segment is defined as a component that engages in business activities whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker and for which discrete financial information is available. Based on the provisions of ASC 280, we have determined that our identified operating segments qualify for aggregation under ASC 280 due to similarities in their customers, their economic characteristics, and the nature of products and services provided. As a result, we report in one segment, semiconductor equipment. Goodwill, Purchased Intangible Assets and Other Long-lived Assets: We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on customer forecasts, industry trade organization data and general economic conditions. We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there is no impairment as of October 1, 2016 as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date. Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates. As of December 31, 2016 we do not believe there have been any events or circumstances that would require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment review. In the event we determine that an interim goodwill impairment review is required, in a future period, the review may result in an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the assets carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. 19 Contingencies: We are subject to certain contingencies that arise in the ordinary course of our businesses which require us to assess the likelihood that future events will confirm the existence of a loss or an impairment of an asset. If a loss or asset impairment is probable and the amount of the loss or impairment is reasonably estimable, we accrue a charge to operations in the period such conditions become known. Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit. Share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant. Share-based compensation for the year ended December 31, 2016 was impacted by our adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09) in the fourth quarter of 2016. For further information regarding our adoption of ASU 2016-09 please see Note 1, Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 1, "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In June 2015, we sold our mobile microwave communications equipment business and in June 2014, we sold our video camera business. The operating results of these businesses are being presented as discontinued operations and all prior period amounts have been reclassified. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussion below covers the comparative results from continuing operations. The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: 2016 2015 2014 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (66.4 ) (67.0 ) (66.5 ) Gross margin 33.6 33.0 33.5 Research and development (12.4 ) (12.3 ) (11.4 ) Selling, general and administrative (19.3 ) (19.0 ) (16.0 ) Gain on sale of facility - 1.2 - Income from operations 1.9 % 2.9 % 6.1 % 2016 Compared to 2015 Net Sales Cohus consolidated net sales increased 4.6% from $269.7 million in 2015 to $282.1 million in 2016. Our consolidated net sales in 2016 are up from 2015 and reflect the improving business conditions in the semiconductor industry and demand for equipment for testing devices used in mobile, automotive and computing applications. Gross Margin Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of the materials, assembly and test labor and overhead from operations. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix of products sold, product support costs, increase to inventory reserves or the sale of previously reserved inventory and utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 33.6% in 2016 from 33.0% in 2015. 20 We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast. During 2016 and 2015, we recorded net charges to cost of sales of approximately $1.1 million and $2.4 million, respectively, for excess and obsolete inventory. While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at December 31, 2016, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, as a result of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our gross margin in future periods. Research and Development Expense (R&D Expense) R&D expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in ongoing research, product design and development activities, costs of engineering materials and supplies and professional consulting expenses. Our future operating results depend, to a considerable extent, on our ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the products we provide, and historically we have maintained our commitment to investing in R&D in order to be able to continue to offer new products to our customers. R&D expense in 2016 was $34.8 million, or 12.4% of net sales, increasing from $33.1 million, or 12.3% of net sales in 2015. New product development programs resulted in higher R&D labor and material expense being incurred in 2016. These increased costs were partially offset by $1.6 million of development cost reimbursements received under a cost-sharing arrangement entered into with a customer in the first quarter of 2016. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A Expense) SG&A expense consists primarily of salaries and benefit costs of employees, commission expense for independent sales representatives, product promotion and costs of professional services. SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales increased to 19.3% in 2016, from 19.0% in 2015, increasing from $51.2 million in 2015 to $54.3 million in 2016. Our SG&A expense in 2016 was higher as a result of increased business volume, and during the year we incurred $1.8 million of costs associated with our acquisition of Kita. SG&A expense in 2016 also includes $0.6 million of expense related to a reduction of an indemnification receivable related to an uncertain tax position recorded in the Ismeca acquisition. In connection with this reduction we also booked a corresponding amount as a credit to our income tax provision and, as a result, the impact of this reduction on net income was zero. Employee share based compensation expense was $0.4 million higher in 2016, driven primarily by the number of employee stock options and restricted and performance share awards subject to vesting during the period and the corresponding valuation that was established on the date of grant. Costs incurred in connection with transitioning our manufacturing to Asia and employee severance were $1.4 million and $1.0 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Over the last two years our SG&A expense has benefitted from the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, which resulted in the recognition of $2.6 million and $1.4 million in foreign currency transaction gains in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Gain on Sale of Facility On December 4, 2015, we completed the sale of our headquarters facility located in Poway, California for $34.1 million. After payment of commissions and other fees associated with the sale we realized net cash proceeds of $33.3 million, which resulted in a total gain of $18.5 million. We accounted for this transaction in accordance with ASC subtopic 840-40, Sale-leaseback transactions , and recognized a gain on the completion of the sale totaling $3.2 million. The portion of the gain not recognized at the time the sale was completed has been deferred and is being recognized on a straight-line basis over the 10-year term of the lease in line with the recognition of rental expense related to the lease. During 2016, we amortized $2.0 million of the deferred gain to income. Income Taxes The income tax provision expressed as a percentage of pre-tax income in 2016 and 2015 was 45.7% and 27.6%, respectively. The income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to releases from statute expirations, non-deductible transaction costs, tax credits, changes in the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates and other factors. Companies are required to assess whether a valuation allowance should be recorded against their deferred tax assets (DTAs) based on the consideration of all available evidence, using a more likely than not realization standard. The four sources of taxable income that must be considered in determining whether DTAs will be realized are, (1) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences (i.e. offset of gross deferred tax assets against gross deferred tax liabilities); (2) taxable income in prior carryback years, if carryback is permitted under the tax law; (3) tax planning strategies and (4) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards. 21 In assessing whether a valuation allowance is required, significant weight is to be given to evidence that can be objectively verified. We have evaluated our DTAs each reporting period, including an assessment of our cumulative income or loss over the prior three-year period and future periods, to determine if a valuation allowance was required. A significant negative factor in our assessment was Cohu's three-year cumulative U.S. loss history at the end of various fiscal periods including 2016. As a result of our cumulative, three-year U.S. GAAP pretax loss from continuing operations of approximately $17.6 million at the end of 2016, and our U.S. loss in 2016, we were unable to conclude at December 31, 2016 that it was more likely than not that our U.S. DTAs would be realized. We will evaluate the realizability of our DTAs at the end of each quarterly reporting period in 2017 and, should circumstances change, it is possible the remaining valuation allowance, or a portion thereof, will be reversed in a future period. Our valuation allowance on our DTAs at December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015 was approximately $44.7 million and $42.3 million, respectively. The remaining gross DTAs for which a valuation allowance was not recorded are realizable primarily through future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. As the realization of DTAs is determined by tax jurisdiction, the deferred tax liabilities recorded as part of the 2008 acquisition of Rasco, a German corporation, and the fiscal 2013 acquisition of Ismeca, a Swiss Corporation, were not a source of taxable income in assessing the realization of our DTAs in the U.S. For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate and further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 7, Income Taxes, included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations was $3.3 million in 2016, compared to $5.8 million in 2015. Including the results of our discontinued operations, our net income in 2016 was $3.0 million as compared to $0.3 million in 2015. 2015 Compared to 2014 Net Sales Cohus consolidated net sales decreased 14.8% from $316.6 million in 2014 to $269.7 million in 2015 as a result of decreased global demand for back-end semiconductor test and assembly equipment, consistent with the broader market. Gross Margin Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 33.0% in 2015 from 33.5% in 2014. During 2015 and 2014, we recorded net charges to cost of sales of approximately $2.4 million and $2.6 million, respectively, for excess and obsolete inventory. R&D Expense R&D expense in 2015 was $33.1 million, or 12.3% of net sales, decreasing from $36.0 million, or 11.4% of net sales in 2014. The reduction in 2015 was a result of the completion of certain development programs, as planned, and headcount reductions. SG&A Expense SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales increased to 19.0% in 2015, from 16.0% in 2014, increasing from $50.6 million in 2014 to $51.2 million in 2015. We have benefitted from the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, which resulted in the recognition of $1.4 million and $2.0 million in foreign currency gains in 2015 and 2014 respectively. We incurred $1.0 million and $1.4 million of costs in connection with transitioning our manufacturing to Asia and employee severance, in 2015 and 2014, respectively. In 2015 we recognized an additional $1.1 million of employee share based compensation expense. This amount was driven primarily by the number of employee stock options and restricted and performance share awards subject to vesting during the period and the corresponding valuation that was established on the date of grant. 22 Gain on Sale of Facility On December 4, 2015, we completed the sale of our headquarters facility located in Poway, California for $34.1 million. After payment of commissions and other fees associated with the sale we realized net cash proceeds of $33.3 million, which resulted in a total gain of $18.5 million. We accounted for this transaction in accordance with ASC subtopic 840-40, Sale-leaseback transactions , and recognized a gain on the completion of the sale totaling $3.2 million. The portion of the gain not recognized at the time the sale was completed has been deferred and is being recognized on a straight-line basis over the 10-year term of the lease in line with the recognition of rental expense related to the lease. Income Taxes The income tax provision expressed as a percentage of pre-tax income in 2015 and 2014 was 27.6% and 23.9%, respectively. The income tax provision for the years ended December 26, 2015 and December 27, 2014 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to tax credits, changes in the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates and other factors. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations was $5.8 million in 2015, compared to $14.8 million in 2014. Including the results of our discontinued operations, our net income in 2015 was $0.3 million as compared to $8.7 million in 2014. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The seasonal and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our business to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. We believe that our sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by a decrease in demand for our products. In addition, we may make acquisitions or increase our capital expenditures and may need to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to provide for greater flexibility to fund these activities. Additional financing may not be available or on terms favorable to us. Liquidity Working Capital: The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital at December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015: (in thousands) 2016 2015 Increase Percentage Change Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 128,035 $ 117,022 $ 11,013 9 % Working capital $ 176,460 $ 171,272 $ 5,188 3 % As of December 31, 2016, $68.9 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes or foreign withholding taxes if we repatriate these funds. U.S. income taxes have not been provided on approximately $49 million of accumulated undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries, as we currently intend to indefinitely reinvest these earnings in operations outside the U.S. We repatriated $17.4 million from our Singapore subsidiary in 2016 due to the reduction in business activity of that operation. Our intent is to continue to indefinitely reinvest the remaining funds in our foreign operations and we have no current plans that would require us to repatriate these funds to the U.S. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of tax that might be payable if some or all of such earnings were to be remitted. 23 Cash Flows Operating Activities: Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Adjustments include the loss from our divestiture of BMS, depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, and deferred income taxes. Our net cash flows provided by operating activities in 2016 totaled $24.5 million compared to $21.5 million in 2015. Cash provided by operating activities also was impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities which included increases in accounts receivable of $4.6 million, accounts payable of $5.7 million and deferred profit of $3.3 million and decreases in inventories of $4.6 million and income taxes payable of $2.0 million. The increase in accounts receivable resulted from increased business volume and a sequential increase in product shipments in the fourth quarter of 2016. The increase in accounts payable resulted from increased business volume in the fourth quarter of 2016 and the timing of payments made to our suppliers. Deferred profit increased as a result of the deferral of revenue related to equipment shipments in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. Inventories decreased as a result of product shipments and improved inventory and supply chain management and income taxes payable decreased as a result of payments made. Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our business, purchases of investments, proceeds from investment maturities, business acquisitions, asset disposals and business divestitures. Our net cash used in investing activities in 2016 totaled $32.9 million and was primarily the result of $50.6 million in cash used for purchases of short-term investments offset by $20.2 million in net proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. We invest our excess cash, in an attempt to seek the highest available return while preserving capital, in short-term investments since excess cash may be required for a business-related purpose. Additions to property, plant and equipment in 2016 were $3.5 million and were made to support our operating and development activities. Financing Activities: Cash used in financing activities consisted of amounts distributed to our stockholders in the form of cash dividends. During 2016, we paid dividends totaling $6.4 million, or $0.24 per common share. On February 16, 2017 we announced a cash dividend of $0.06 per share on our common stock, payable on April 14, 2017 to stockholders of record as of February 28, 2017. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Partially offsetting cash used in the payment of dividends were the net proceeds from the issuance of our common stock under our equity incentive and employee stock purchase plans, which totaled $0.4 million during 2016. We issue stock options and maintain an employee stock purchase plan as components of our overall employee compensation. Capital Resources We have a secured letter of credit facility (the Secured Facility) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on behalf of Cohu and our subsidiaries. The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding standby letters of credit. As of December 31, 2016, no amounts were outstanding under standby letters of credit. Our wholly owned subsidiary Ismeca Semiconductor Holdings SA (Ismeca) has agreements with Credit Suisse and UBS (the Ismeca Facility) under which they administer lines of credit on behalf of Ismeca. Total borrowings available under the Ismeca Facility are 2.5 million Swiss Francs and at December 31, 2016 no amounts were outstanding. We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2016, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our balance sheet as current liabilities at December 31, 2016. Amounts excluded include our liability for unrecognized tax benefits that totaled approximately $10.1 million at December 31, 2016. We are currently unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount or period(s) the cash settlement of this liability may occur. (in thousands) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Total Non-cancelable operating leases $ 3,051 $ 2,527 $ 2,237 $ 2,259 $ 2,299 $ 8,695 $ 21,068 The table above does not include pension, post-retirement benefit and warranty obligations because it is not certain when these liabilities will be funded. For additional information regarding our pension and post-retirement benefits obligations see Note 6, Employee Benefit Plans and for more information on our contractual obligations, see Note 10, Guarantees in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. 24 Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers. From time to time, we enter into commitments with our vendors and outsourcing partners to purchase inventory at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within relatively short time horizons. We typically do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for the next three months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit instruments to certain parties as required. As of December 31, 2016, no amounts were outstanding under standby letters of credit.