Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute. Such forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and beliefs, including estimates and projections about our business and include, but are not limited to, statements concerning financial position, business strategy, and plans or objectives for future operations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and may cause actual results to differ materially from managements current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include those set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect managements outlook at any other point in time. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason, however, readers should carefully review the risk factors set forth in other reports or documents we file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Quarterly Report. OVERVIEW Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems, semiconductor automated test equipment and bare-board printed circuit board (PCB) test systems used by global semiconductor and electronics manufacturers and test subcontractors. We offer a wide range of products and services and our revenue from capital equipment products is driven by the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who often abruptly delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to variations in their business. The level of capital expenditures by these companies depends on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductor devices and printed circuit boards and the products that incorporate them. Our consumable products are driven by the number of semiconductor devices and printed circuit boards that are tested and by the continuous introduction of new products and new technologies by our customers. As a result, our consumable products provide a more stable recurring source of revenue and generally do not have the same degree of cyclicality as our capital equipment products. Starting in 2019 and 2020, the global semiconductor market has been impacted by U.S. and China trade tensions which impacted our customers ability to supply product to certain end users. Further, throughout 2020, customer test cell utilization was below levels that have historically triggered the need for additional capacity. During the first nine months of 2020 our net sales were negatively impacted by supply disruptions caused by the rapid and global spread of COVID-19 and weakness in the automotive market, and our consolidated net sales were $433.7 million, a decrease of 1.7% from the corresponding period of the prior year. Demand for equipment used in testing mobility semiconductor applications, data centers and personal computers strengthened during the third quarter of 2020 driven by the launch and accelerated ramp of our RedDragon RF module for testing 5G, Wi-Fi 6 and Ultra-Wideband devices, and new customers for our Neon inspection platform. We also began to see improved demand from semiconductor, automotive and industrial customers and orders for PCB test equipment were at near record levels. Based on current business conditions, during the third quarter of 2020 we took action to reduce outstanding principal under our Term Loan B debt associated with the financing of the Xcerra acquisition in October 2018. While we believe our total sales for the twelve months of 2020 will be negatively impacted by the global economic downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic our long-term market drivers and market strategy remain intact. We are encouraged by positive order momentum across our main market segments, and by customer traction with our new products going into 2021. We remain optimistic about the long-term prospects for our business due to the increasing ubiquity of semiconductors, the future rollout of 5G networks, increasing semiconductor complexity, increasing quality demands from semiconductor customers, increasing test intensity and continued proliferation of electronics in a variety of products across the automotive, mobility and industrial markets. We are focused on cross-selling opportunities and supporting our customers deployment of 5G RF capabilities on next generation smartphones and growing our sales to semiconductor and electronics manufacturers and test subcontractors. Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. COVID-19 continues to spread throughout the United States and other countries across the world, and the duration and severity of the effects are currently unknown. We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the current circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. 28 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 Our critical accounting estimates that we believe are the most important to an investors understanding of our financial results and condition and that require complex management judgment include: revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations; estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically product warranty, inventory reserves and allowance for bad debts, which impact gross margin or operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, which impact our tax provision; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation or amortization; and the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Revenue Recognition: Our net sales are derived from the sale of products and services and are adjusted for estimated returns and allowances, which historically have been insignificant. We recognize revenue when the obligations under the terms of a contract with our customers are satisfied; generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of our systems, non-system products or services. In circumstances where control is not transferred until destination or acceptance, we defer revenue recognition until such events occur. Revenue for established products that have previously satisfied a customers acceptance requirements is generally recognized upon shipment. In cases where a prior history of customer acceptance cannot be demonstrated or from sales where customer payment dates are not determinable and in the case of new products, revenue and cost of sales are deferred until customer acceptance has been received. Our post-shipment obligations typically include installation and standard warranties. The estimated fair value of installation related revenue is recognized in the period the installation is performed. Service revenue is recognized over time as the transfer of control is completed for the related contract or upon completion of the services if they are short-term in nature. Spares, contactor and kit revenue is generally recognized upon shipment. Certain of our equipment sales have multiple performance obligations. These arrangements involve the delivery or performance of multiple performance obligations, and transfer of control of performance obligations may occur at different points in time or over different periods of time. For arrangements containing multiple performance obligations, the revenue relating to the undelivered performance obligation is deferred using the relative standalone selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until satisfaction of the deferred performance obligation. Unsatisfied performance obligations primarily represent contracts for products with future delivery dates. At September 26, 2020, we have $8.7 million of revenue expected to be recognized in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) for contracts with original expected durations of over one year. As allowed under ASC 606, we have opted to not disclose unsatisfied performance obligations as these contracts have original expected durations of less than one year. We generally sell our equipment with a product warranty. The product warranty provides assurance to customers that delivered products are as specified in the contract (an assurance-type warranty). Therefore, we account for such product warranties under ASC 460, Guarantees (ASC 460), and not as a separate performance obligation. The transaction price reflects our expectations about the consideration we will be entitled to receive from the customer and may include fixed or variable amounts. Fixed consideration primarily includes sales to customers that are known as of the end of the reporting period. Variable consideration includes sales in which the amount of consideration that we will receive is unknown as of the end of a reporting period. Such consideration primarily includes sales made to certain customers with cumulative tier volume discounts offered. Variable consideration arrangements are rare; however, when they occur, we estimate variable consideration as the expected value to which we expect to be entitled. Included in the transaction price estimate are amounts in which it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. The estimate is based on information available for projected future sales. Variable consideration that does not meet revenue recognition criteria is deferred. Accounts receivable represents our unconditional right to receive consideration from our customer. Payments terms do not exceed one year from the invoice date and therefore do not include a significant financing component. To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable. There were no material contract assets or contract liabilities recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented. On shipments where sales are not recognized, gross profit is generally recorded as deferred profit in our consolidated balance sheet representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the inventory shipped. 29 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for credit losses for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. We adopted ASU 2016-13 , Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments , on December 29, 2019 the first day of our fiscal 2020. The ASU required a cumulative-effect adjustment to the statement of financial position as of the date of adoption. Periods prior to the adoption that are presented for comparative purposes are not adjusted. Based on our analysis of historical and anticipated collections of trade receivables, the impact of adoption of Topic 326 was insignificant. Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans. We record valuation reserves on our inventory for estimated excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or net realizable value concerns equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future product demand, market conditions and product selling prices. If future product demand, market conditions or product selling prices are less than those projected by management or if continued modifications to products are required to meet specifications or other customer requirements, increases to inventory reserves may be required which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Income Taxes: We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits. Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations. We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets. Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of September 26, 2020, was approximately $141.0 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $93.6 million. Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards. Segment Information: We applied the provisions of ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting , (ASC 280), which sets forth a management approach to segment reporting and establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures about products, major customers and the geographies in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue. An operating segment is defined as a component that engages in business activities whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker and for which discrete financial information is available. After the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, we have determined that our four identified operating segments are: Test Handler Group (THG), Semiconductor Test Group (STG), Interface Solutions Group (ISG) and PCB Test Group (PTG). Our THG, STG and ISG operating segments qualify for aggregation under ASC 280 due to similarities in their customers, their economic characteristics, and the nature of products and services provided. As a result, we report in two segments, Semiconductor Test & Inspection and PCB Test. Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangibles, Other Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets: We evaluate goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are solely comprised of in-process research and development (IPR&D), for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting unit or asset, in the case of in-process research and development. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the fair value of the reporting unit and its carrying value of goodwill. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on customer forecasts, industry trade organization data and general economic conditions. Fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions and factors. 30 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year and determined that there was no impairment as of October 1, 2019, as the estimated fair values of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeded their carrying values on that date. Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates. While a decline in stock price and market capitalization is not specifically cited as an impairment indicator, a companys stock price and market capitalization should be considered in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its book value. The financial and credit market volatility caused by the COVID-19 pandemic directly impacts our fair value measurement through our stock price that we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. During the first quarter of 2020, the volatility in Cohus stock price, the global economic downturn and business interruptions associated with the COVID-19 pandemic led us to determine that there was a triggering event related to goodwill within all of our identified reporting units and our indefinite-lived intangible assets. We performed an interim assessment as of March 28, 2020 and determined that the fair values of our identified reporting units all exceeded their carrying values and we concluded there was no impairment of goodwill within our reporting units. Anticipated delays in customer adoption of certain new products under development as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, changes to future project roadmaps and an increase in the discount rate used in the developing our interim fair value estimate resulted in a $3.9 million impairment to IPR&D recorded during the first quarter as the carrying value exceeded fair value. During the third quarter of 2020, we became aware of additional delays in customer adoption of the same new products under development leading us to re-evaluate the fair value of these projects and we determined that the carrying value exceeded the fair value and, as a result, we recorded a $7.3 million impairment to IPR&D. For the nine months ended September 26, 2020 total impairments recorded to IPR&D projects was $11.2 million. We also considered changes in market volatility, the improvement in Cohus stock price and our actual and expected operating results as compared to the forecasts utilized during our first quarter test noting no events or conditions that suggested a triggering event had occurred related to our goodwill as of September 26, 2020. The forecasts utilized in the interim impairment tests were based on known facts and circumstances. We evaluate and consider recent events and uncertain items, as well as related potential implications, as part of our annual and interim assessments and incorporate them into the analyses as appropriate. These facts and circumstances are subject to change and may not be the same as future analyses. In a future period, should we again determine that an interim goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment review is required we may be required to book additional impairment charges which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the assets carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. We evaluated the expected undiscounted cashflows of these assets as of March 28, 2020 and determined there was no impairment. During the third quarter of 2020, no events or conditions occurred suggesting an impairment in our long-lived assets. Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized. Our warranty obligation estimates are affected by historical product shipment levels, product performance and material and labor costs incurred in correcting product performance problems. Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Contingencies: We are subject to certain contingencies that arise in the ordinary course of our businesses which require us to assess the likelihood that future events will confirm the existence of a loss or an impairment of an asset. If a loss or asset impairment is probable and the amount of the loss or impairment is reasonably estimable, we accrue a charge to operations in the period such conditions become known. Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit. Share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant. Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model. 31 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in Note 1 located in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Recent Transactions Impacting Results of Operations As discussed herein, management determined that the fixtures services business, that was acquired as part of Xcerra, did not align with Cohus long-term strategic plan and management divested this business in the first quarter of 2020. As a result, the assets of our fixtures business were considered held for sale and the operations of our fixtures business were considered discontinued operations for all periods presented. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussion below covers the comparative results from continuing operations. The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 26, September 28, September 26, September 28, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (57.8 )% (58.9 )% (58.4 )% (60.2 )% Gross margin 42.2 % 41.1 % 41.6 % 39.8 % Research and development (13.6 )% (14.3 )% (14.6 )% (14.8 )% Selling, general and administrative (20.9 )% (23.5 )% (22.0 )% (24.6 )% Amortization of purchased intangible assets (6.5 )% (6.9 )% (6.7 )% (6.8 )% Restructuring charges (0.3 )% (0.6 )% (0.3 )% (2.4 )% Impairment charges (4.8 )% - % (2.6 )% - % Gain on sale of facilities 3.0 % - % 1.0 % - % Loss from operations (0.9 )% (4.2 )% (3.6 )% (8.8 )% Third Quarter of Fiscal 2020 Compared to Third Quarter of Fiscal 2019 Net Sales Our consolidated net sales increased 5.0% to $150.6 million in 2020, compared to $143.5 million in 2019. Demand for equipment used in testing mobility semiconductors, automotive and industrial strengthened during the third quarter of 2020 driving higher sales as compared to the prior year. Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of the materials, assembly and test labor and overhead from operations. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix and volume of products sold, product support costs, increases to inventory reserves or the sale of previously reserved inventory and utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, was 42.2% in 2020 and 41.1% in 2019. Our gross margin can be impacted by charges to cost of sales related to excess, obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory issues. During the third quarter of 2020 and 2019, we recorded charges to cost of sales of $3.6 million and $1.5 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively. During the third quarter of 2020 and 2019 we recorded, $2.6 million and $1.1 million of restructuring related inventory charges as part of the integration of Xcerra. While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or net realizable value concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at September 26, 2020, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, as a result of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our gross margin in future periods. 32 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 Research and Development Expense (R&D Expense) R&D expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in ongoing research, product design and development activities, costs of engineering materials and supplies and professional consulting expenses. R&D expense was $20.5 million in both 2020 and 2019 representing 13.6% and 14.3% of net sales, respectively. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A Expense) SG&A expense consists primarily of salaries and benefit costs of employees, commission expense for independent sales representatives, product promotion and costs of professional services. SG&A expense was $31.3 million or 20.9% of net sales in 2020, compared to $33.7 million or 23.5% in 2019. The decrease in SG&A expense in 2020 was primarily associated with a $1.0 million reduction in depreciation expense related to a step-up in value of Xcerra assets and lower salaries, travel and other administrative spending as a result of cost control measures implemented in response to the economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of purchased intangibles is the process of expensing the cost of an intangible asset acquired through a business combination over the projected life of the asset. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $9.8 million and $10.0 million in the third quarter of 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in expense recorded during the current year was a result of fluctuations in exchange rates. Restructuring Charges Subsequent to the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, during the fourth quarter of 2018, we began a strategic restructuring program designed to reposition our organization and improve our cost structure as part of our targeted integration plan regarding Xcerra. In the third quarter of 2020, we recorded restructuring charges, totaling $0.4 million. In the third quarter of 2019 we recorded restructuring charges, exclusive of the inventory related charges described above, totaling $0.8 million. See Note 4, Restructuring Charges in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to restructuring charges. Impairment Charges During the third quarter of 2020, we became aware of additional delays in customer adoption of certain new products under development that were acquired from Xcerra as a result of COVID-19 and product road map changes. This change in facts led us to re-evaluate the fair value of these projects and we determined that the carrying value exceeded the fair value and, as a result, we recorded a $7.3 million impairment to IPR&D. Gain on Sale of Facilities As part of our previously announced Xcerra integration plan we implemented certain facility consolidation actions. During the third quarter of 2020, we completed the sale of our facility located in Rosenheim, Germany which resulted in a gain of $4.5 million. See Note 4, Restructuring Charges in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to our facility consolidation plan. Interest Expense and Income Interest expense was $3.0 million in the third fiscal quarter of 2020 as compared to $5.0 million in the corresponding period of 2019. The decrease in interest expense resulted from lower LIBOR rates as a result of global economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Interest income was $42,000 and $0.2 million in the third fiscal quarter of 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in interest income resulted from lower interest rates. Income Taxes Ordinarily, interim tax provisions are calculated using the estimated effective tax rate (ETR) expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year. However, when a reliable estimate of the annual ETR cannot be made, the actual ETR for the year-to-date period may be the best estimate of the annual ETR. For the three months ended September 26, 2020, we used the actual year-to-date ETR in computing our tax provision, as a reliable estimate of the 2020 annual ETR cannot be made, since relatively small changes in our projected income produce a significant variation in our ETR. The ETR on loss from continuing operations for the three months ended September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019 was (20.2)% and (13.9)%, respectively. The tax provision on loss from continuing operations in 2020 and 2019 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the lack of a tax benefit on our domestic losses as a result of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates, withholding tax, taxes on unremitted earnings and changes to unrecognized tax benefits. 33 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 Our German subsidiaries income tax returns for 2015 to 2017, and our Philippines subsidiary income tax returns for 2017 and 2018 are currently under routine examination by tax authorities in their respective countries. We believe our financial statement accruals for income taxes are appropriate. During the three-month period ended September 26, 2020, our unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $1.0 million due to settlement with the tax authority, offset by accrued interest. Other than for foreign currency exchange rate changes, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the three-month period ended September 28, 2019. Loss from Continuing Operations and Net Loss As a result of the factors set forth above, both loss from continuing operations and net loss attributable to Cohu was $6.6 million in 2020. Both loss from continuing operations and net loss attributable to Cohu was $10.5 million in 2019. First Nine Months of Fiscal 2020 Compared to First Nine Months of Fiscal 2019 Net Sales Our consolidated net sales decreased 1.7% to $433.7 million in 2020, compared to $441.3 million in 2019. During the first nine months of 2020, our net sales were impacted by disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and movement control orders which resulted in supply disruptions and impacted our ability to ship product and further by reduced demand in the automotive segment. Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 41.6% in 2020 from 39.8% in 2019. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix of products sold, product support costs, inventory reserve adjustments, and utilization of manufacturing capacity. In the first nine months of fiscal 2020 and 2019 we recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $5.6 million and $3.2 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively. In 2019, our cost of sales was impacted by the amortization of inventory step-up related to fair value adjustments to inventory acquired in business combinations. During the first nine months of 2019, we amortized $6.0 million of inventory step-up related to our acquisition of Xcerra. There was no inventory step-up amortized in the corresponding 2020. As part of the integration and restructuring activities related to Xcerra, in the first nine months of fiscal 2020 we recorded $4.3 million of inventory-related charges driven by the decision to end manufacturing of certain of our semiconductor test handlers as part of the integration of Xcerra. During the first nine months of 2019, our gross margin benefitted by $0.3 million comprised of $2.1 million from the reversal of liabilities related to supplier commitments recorded as part of these restructuring activities offset, in part, by $1.8 million of additional inventory related charges related to ending the manufacturing of these products. While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at September 26, 2020, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, as a result of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our results of operations and gross margin in future periods. R&D Expense R&D expense was $63.4 million or 14.6% of net sales in 2020, compared to $65.3 million or 14.8% in 2019. The decrease in R&D expense in 2020 is a result of lower salaries, travel and other cost control measures implemented in response to the economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. 34 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 SG&A Expense SG&A expense was $95.7 million or 22.0% of net sales in 2020, compared to $108.4 million or 24.6% in 2019. The decrease in SG&A expense in 2020 was primarily associated with a $2.0 million reduction in depreciation expense related to a step-up in value of Xcerra assets, lower incentive compensation due to the decrease in business volume and lower salary, travel and other administrative spending as a result of cost control measures implemented in response to the economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $28.8 million and $30.0 million for the first nine months of 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in expense recorded during the current year was a result of fluctuations in exchange rates. Restructuring Charges In the first nine months of 2020, we recorded restructuring charges, exclusive of the $4.3 million of inventory related charges described above, totaling $1.4 million. In the first nine months of 2019 we recorded restructuring charges, exclusive of the inventory related benefits described above, totaling $10.7 million. See Note 4, Restructuring Charges in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to restructuring charges. Impairment Charges During the first quarter of 2020, the volatility in Cohus stock price, the global economic downturn and business interruptions associated with the COVID-19 pandemic led us to determine that there was a triggering event related to goodwill within all of our identified reporting units and our indefinite-lived intangible assets. We performed an interim assessment as of March 28, 2020 and determined that the fair values of our identified reporting units all exceeded their carrying values and we have concluded there were no impairment of goodwill within our reporting units. Anticipated delays in customer adoption of certain new products under development as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, changes to future project roadmap and an increase in the discount rate used in the developing our interim fair value estimate resulted in a $3.9 million impairment to IPR&D as the carrying value exceeded fair value. During the third quarter of 2020, we became aware of additional delays in customer adoption of certain new products under development that were acquired from Xcerra as a result of COVID-19 and product road map changes. This change in facts led us to re-evaluate the fair value of these projects and we determined that the carrying value exceeded the fair value and, as a result, we recorded a $7.3 million impairment to IPR&D. For the nine months ended September 26, 2020 total impairments recorded to IPR&D projects was $11.2 million. Interest Expense and Income Interest expense was $10.9 million in the first nine months of 2020 as compared to $15.8 million in the corresponding period of 2019. The decrease in interest expense resulted from lower LIBOR rates as a result of global economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Interest income was $0.2 million and $0.6 million in the first nine months of 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in interest income resulted from lower interest rates. Income Taxes The ETR on income or loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 26, 2020 and September 28, 2019, was (0.9)% and (0.3)%, respectively. The tax provision on loss from continuing operations in 2020 and 2019 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to foreign income taxed at different rates, changes in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance, withholding tax, taxes on unremitted earnings and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits. During the nine-month period ended September 26, 2020, our unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $1.5 million due to settlement with the relevant tax authority, expiration of the statute of limitations and foreign currency exchange rate changes, offset by accrued interest. There was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the nine-month period ended September 28, 2019. 35 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) was signed into law in March 2020. The CARES Act lifts certain deduction limitations originally imposed by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (2017 Tax Act). Corporate taxpayers may carryback net operating losses (NOLs) originating during 2018 through 2020 for up to five years, which was not previously allowed under the 2017 Tax Act. The CARES Act also eliminates the 80% of taxable income limitations by allowing corporate entities to fully utilize NOL carryforwards to offset taxable income in 2018, 2019 or 2020. Taxpayers may generally deduct interest up to the sum of 50% of adjusted taxable income plus business interest income (30% limit under the 2017 Tax Act) for tax years beginning January 1, 2019 and 2020. The CARES Act allows taxpayers with alternative minimum tax credits to claim a refund in 2020 for the entire amount of the credits instead of recovering the credits through refunds over a period of years, as originally enacted by the 2017 Tax Act. In addition, the CARES Act raises the corporate charitable deduction limit to 25% of taxable income and makes qualified improvement property generally eligible for 15-year cost-recovery and 100% bonus depreciation. The enactment of the CARES Act did not result in any material adjustments to our income tax provision for the nine months ended September 26, 2020, or to our net deferred tax assets as of September 26, 2020. Loss from Continuing Operations and Net Loss As a result of the factors set forth above in 2020, our loss from continuing operations was $28.7 million and including the impact of discontinued operations our net loss attributable to Cohu was $28.7 million. In 2019, our loss from continuing operations and net loss attributable to Cohu were $52.7 million and $52.4 million respectively. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The seasonal and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. As of September 26, 2020, $98.1 million or 57.7% of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding taxes if we repatriate these funds. Except for working capital requirements in certain jurisdictions, we provide for all withholding and other residual taxes related to unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. At September 26, 2020, our total indebtedness, net of discount and deferred financing costs, was $339.7 million, which included $321.3 million outstanding under the Term B Loan, $3.7 million outstanding under Kitas term loans, $9.5 million outstanding under Cohu GmbHs construction loan and $5.2 million outstanding under Kitas lines of credit. During the third quarter of 2020 we repaid the outstanding balance of Xcerras term loan as part of the sale of our Rosenheim facility. Liquidity Working Capital: The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital: September 26, December 28, Percentage (in thousands) 2020 2019 Increase Change Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 170,875 $ 156,098 $ 14,777 9.5 % Working capital $ 297,915 $ 290,811 $ 7,104 2.4 % Cash Flows Operating Activities: Operating cash flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2020 consisted of our net loss, adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities. These adjustments include impairment charges, depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, share-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets and deferred income taxes. Our net cash provided by operating activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2020 totaled $28.0 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities and included decreases in accounts receivable of $13.0 million, accounts payable of $3.5 million, accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities of $2.6 million, other current assets of $2.2 million, income taxes payable of $1.2 million, customer advances of $1.0 million and increases in inventory of $11.4 million and deferred profit of $4.2 million. Accounts receivable and accounts payable balances decreased as a result of the timing of cash collections from customers and payments made by us to our suppliers. Accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities decreased due to payments of incentive compensation related to the prior year, lower accruals for incentive compensation and warranty due to business conditions in 2020, the payment of accrued interest related to our Term B loan and a payment of $1.5 million for contingent consideration associated with our acquisition of Kita Manufacturing Ltd. The reduction in other current assets due to sale of facilities previously held for sale and reduction of income tax receivables from prior periods. The decrease in income taxes payable is driven by income tax payments and lower taxable income in 2020. Fulfillment of customer equipment orders during 2020 has resulted in the decrease in customer advances. The increase in inventory is driven by purchases from suppliers made to fulfill anticipated future shipments and our deferred profit increased as a result of revenue deferrals in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. 36 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our business, purchases of investments, proceeds from investment maturities, business divestitures and asset disposals. Net cash provided by investing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2020 totaled $6.4 million. Additions to property, plant and equipment of $13.6 million were made to support the operating and development activities of our business activities of our Semiconductor Test & Inspection segment. During the first nine months of fiscal 2020 we received net proceeds of $3.0 million from the sale of our fixtures services business and $17.0 million related to the sale of fixed assets and our facilities in Rosenheim Germany and Penang Malaysia as part of our Xcerra integration and facility consolidation program. Financing Activities: Financing cash flows consist primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans, cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders and borrowings, net of repayments of debt. We issue restricted stock units and stock options and maintain an employee stock purchase plan as components of our overall employee compensation. In the first nine months of fiscal 2020, cash used to settle the minimum statutory tax withholding requirements on behalf of our employees upon vesting of restricted and performance stock awards, net of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options was $0.2 million. We paid dividends totaling $5.0 million, or $0.06 per common share. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we are proactively managing cash flow and Cohus Board of Directors authorized suspending our quarterly cash dividend indefinitely, as of May 5, 2020. The dividend suspension will result in approximately $10 million of annualized cash savings, which we expect to utilize for deleveraging and strengthening our balance sheet. Repayments of short-term borrowings and long-term debt during the first nine months of fiscal 2020 totaled $20.2 million and included a $15.8 million repurchase and retirement of our Term Loan B debt during the third quarter of 2020 made to deleverage our balance sheet. We received proceeds under a revolving line of credit and construction loan totaling $5.9 million. Proceeds from the construction loan are being used to expand our facility in Kolbermoor, Germany, enabling us to consolidate the German operations of our Semiconductor Test & Inspection segment in 2020. Proceeds from the revolving line of credit are being used to increase the manufacturing capacity of our Semiconductor Test & Inspection segment facility located in Osaka, Japan. Capital Resources We have access to credit facilitates and other borrowings provided by financial institutions to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures and our operations if needed. A summary of our borrowings and available credit is as follows. Credit Agreement On October 1, 2018, we entered into a Credit Agreement providing for a $350.0 million Credit Facility and borrowed the full amount to finance a portion of the Xcerra acquisition. Loans under the Credit Facility amortize in equal quarterly installments of 0.25% of the original principal amount, with the balance payable at maturity. All outstanding principal and interest in respect of the Credit Facility must be repaid on or before October 1, 2025. The loans under the Term Loan Facility bear interest, at Cohus option, at a floating annual rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin of 3.00%. At September 26, 2020, the outstanding loan balance, net of discount and deferred financing costs, was $321.3 million and $2.3 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. At December 28, 2019, the outstanding loan balance, net of discount and deferred financing costs, was $339.1 million and $2.3 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, the lender may accelerate the payment terms upon the occurrence of certain events of default set forth therein, which include: the failure of Cohu to make timely payments of amounts due under the Credit Agreement, the failure of Cohu to adhere to the representations and covenants set forth in the Credit Agreement, the failure to provide notice of any event that causes a material adverse effect or to provide other required notices, upon the event that related collateral agreements become ineffective, upon the event that certain legal judgments are entered against Cohu, the insolvency of Cohu, or upon the change of control of Cohu. As of September 26, 2020, we believe no such events of default have occurred. In August 2020, we repurchased $16.4 million in principal of our Term Loan Facility for $15.8 million in cash. We accounted for the repurchase as a debt extinguishment, which resulted in a gain of $0.3 million reflected in other expense, net, in our condensed consolidated statement of operations, as well as a $0.3 million reduction in debt discounts and deferred financing costs in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. After the repurchase, approximately $327.5 million in principal of the Term Loan Facility remains outstanding as of September 26, 2020. 37 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 Kita Term Loans As a result of our acquisition of Kita, we assumed term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions primarily related to the expansion of Kitas facility in Osaka, Japan. The loans are collateralized by the facility and land, carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.40%, and expire at various dates through 2036. At September 26, 2020, the outstanding loan balance was $3.7 million and $0.3 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets. At December 28, 2019, the outstanding loan balance was $3.8 million and $0.4 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets. The term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. Xcerra Term Loan As a result of our acquisition of Xcerra, we assumed a term loan related to the purchase of Xcerras facility in Rosenheim, Germany. The loan was payable over 10 years at an annual interest rate of 2.35%. Principal plus accrued interest was due quarterly over the duration of the term loan ending in March 2024. At December 28, 2019, the outstanding loan balance was $1.5 million and $0.3 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. During the third quarter of 2020 the term loan was fully repaid using proceeds received from the sale of our facility located in Rosenheim, Germany. Construction Loans On July 26, 2019, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries located in Germany entered into two construction loans (Loan Facilities) with a German financial institution providing total borrowing of 8.6 million. The Loan Facilities have 10-year and 15-year terms, which commenced on August 1, 2019, the initial draw-down date. Additionally, on June 16, 2020, a third construction loan with the same financial institution was entered into providing total borrowing of 1.5 million. This loan facility has a 10-year term, which has not commenced. The Loan Facilities are being utilized to finance the expansion of our facility in Kolbermoor, Germany, enabling us to combine the operations of multiple subsidiaries in one location as part of our previously announced strategic restructuring program. The Loan Facilities are secured by the land and the existing building on the site and bear interest at agreed upon rates based on separate 3.4 million, 5.2 million and 1.5 million facility amounts. On August 1, 2019, the full 3.4 million was drawn under the first facility, which is payable over 10 years at an annual interest rate of 0.8%. Interest only payments are required to be made each quarter starting in September 2019 with principal and interest payments due each quarter starting in the month of December 2021. Principal repayments will be made over 8 years starting at the end of 2021. Through September 26, 2020, we drew 4.8 million under the second facility, which is payable over 15 years at an annual interest rate of 1.05%. Interest only payments are required to be made each month starting in December 2019 with principal and interest payments due each month starting in the month of May 2020. Principal repayments will be made over 15 years starting at the end of May 2020. As of September 26, 2020, 0.4 million had not been drawn under the second facility and is expected to be drawn later in 2020. Through September 26, 2020, no amounts have been drawn under the third facility. Future amounts, if drawn, will be payable over 10 years at an annual interest rate of 1.2%. Interest payments are required to be made each month starting in the month following the first draw-down date with principal and interest payments due each month starting in the month of May 2021. Principal repayments will be made over 10 years starting at the end of May 2021. At September 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, total outstanding borrowings under the Loan Facilities was $9.5 million and $5.5 million with $0.4 million and $0.3 million of the total outstanding balance being presented as current installments of long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets based on contractual due dates, respectively. The loans are denominated in Euros and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. Lines of Credit As a result of our acquisition of Kita, we assumed a series of revolving credit facilities with various financial institutions in Japan. The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $9.1 million. At September 26, 2020, total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $5.2 million. As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. 38 Table of Contents Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2020 The revolving lines of credit are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. Our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary has one available line of credit which provides it with borrowings of up to a total of 2.0 million Swiss Francs, a portion of which is reserved for tax guarantees. At September 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under this line of credit. We also have a letter of credit facility (LC Facility) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf. The LC Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit and contains customary restrictive covenants. In addition, our wholly owned subsidiary, Xcerra, has arrangements with various financial institutions for the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees. As of September 26, 2020, $0.3 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit and bank guarantees. We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Contractual Obligations: Our significant contractual obligations consist of liabilities for debt, operating leases, unrecognized tax benefits, pensions, post-retirement benefits and warranties. There were no material changes to these obligations outside the ordinary course of business from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2019. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers: From time to time, we enter into commitments with our vendors and outsourcing partners to purchase inventory at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within relatively short time horizons. We typically do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for the next three months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit instruments to certain parties as required. As of September 26, 2020, $0.3 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit.