managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included in Part II, Item 7. In February 2020, we sold our fixtures and services business and the operating results of this business is presented as discontinued operations for the periods ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018. Additionally, in June 2015, we sold our mobile microwave communications equipment business and the operating results of this business are also presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Years Ended, Dec. 28 Dec. 29 Dec. 30 Dec. 31 Dec. 26 (in thousands, except per share data) 2019 (1) (2) 2018 (1) (2) 2017 (2) (3) 2016 (4) 2015 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net sales $ 583,329 $ 451,768 $ 352,704 $ 282,084 $ 269,654 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ (68,995 ) $ (32,543 ) $ 33,121 $ 3,260 $ 5,792 (5) Net income (loss) $ (69,692 ) $ (32,424 ) $ 32,843 $ 3,039 $ 250 Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest $ 8 $ (243 ) $ - $ - $ - Net income (loss) attributable to Cohu $ (69,700 ) $ (32,181 ) $ 32,843 $ 3,039 $ 250 Income (loss) from continuing operations - basic $ (1.68 ) $ (1.02 ) $ 1.19 $ 0.12 $ 0.22 Income (loss) from continuing operations - diluted $ (1.68 ) $ (1.02 ) $ 1.15 $ 0.12 $ 0.22 Net income (loss) attributable to Cohu - basic $ (1.69 ) $ (1.01 ) $ 1.18 $ 0.11 $ 0.01 Net income (loss) attributable to Cohu - diluted $ (1.69 ) $ (1.01 ) $ 1.14 $ 0.11 $ 0.01 Cash dividends per share, paid quarterly $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total Consolidated Assets $ 1,077,710 $ 1,134,002 $ 420,457 $ 345,512 $ 345,346 Total Debt $ 353,035 $ 352,828 $ 8,963 $ - $ - Working Capital $ 290,811 $ 324,650 $ 212,171 $ 176,460 $ 171,272 (1) On October 1, 2018, we purchased Xcerra and the results of its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since that date. In 2019, total operating expenses related to the acquisition of Xcerra were as follows: $16.2 million in restructuring charges comprised of $2.7 million of inventory end-of-manufacturing write-downs related to one of Xcerras products, employee severance costs of $12.2 million and $1.3 million of other restructuring costs. We also recorded $35.5 million for the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and $0.4 million of merger related costs. Total operating expenses in 2018 include charges related to the acquisition of Xcerra as follows: $37.8 million in restructuring charges comprised of $19.1 million of inventory end-of-manufacturing write-downs related to one of Xcerras products, employee severance costs of $17.8 million and $0.9 million of other restructuring costs. We also recorded $13.1 million for the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and $9.8 million of merger related costs. (2) Results for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, include the impact from the Tax Act. See Note 8, Income Taxes in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K for additional information. (3) On January 4, 2017, we purchased Kita Manufacturing Co. LTD. (Kita) and the results of its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since that date. (4) The year ended December 31, 2016 consists of 53 weeks. All other years in the table above are comprised of 52 weeks. (5) Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 26, 2015, includes a gain on the sale of facility totaling $3.2 million. 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. OVERVIEW Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems, semiconductor automated test equipment and bare-board printed circuit board test systems used by global semiconductor and electronics manufacturers and test subcontractors. We offer a wide range of products and services and our revenue from capital equipment products is driven by the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to variations in their business. The level of capital expenditures by these companies depends on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductor devices and PCBs and the products that incorporate them. Our consumable products are driven by an increase in the number of semiconductor devices and printed circuit boards that are tested and by the continuous introduction of new products and new technologies by our customers. As a result, our consumable products provide a more stable recurring source of revenue and generally do not have the same degree of cyclicality as our capital equipment products. For the year ended December 28, 2019, our net sales increased 29.1% year-over-year to $583.3 million driven by the acquisition of Xcerra Corporation, completed on October 1, 2018. Consolidated net sales for the year ended December 28, 2019, include Xcerras recognized sales for all twelve months of 2019 which totaled $300.8 million. The year ended December 29, 2018, only includes Xcerras sales for the three months subsequent to our acquisition which totaled $94.4 million. Excluding the impact of the additional sales from Xcerra, our consolidated net sales decreased year over year as a result of softer demand for smartphones, weaker automotive semiconductor demand and ongoing softness in the China market that is in part related to trade tensions between the U.S. and China and export restrictions. During 2018 we saw growth in the global semiconductor market through the second quarter when it reached its peak. Business conditions then softened during the second half of 2018 with the weakness in demand continuing throughout 2019 and customer test cell utilization remains below levels that have historically triggered the need for additional capacity. Despite the near-term weakness, we remain optimistic about the long-term prospects for our business due to the increasing ubiquity of semiconductors, the future rollout of 5G networks, the diminishing impact of parallel test, increasing semiconductor complexity, increasing quality demands from semiconductor customers, and continued proliferation of electronics in a variety of products across the automotive, mobility and industrial markets. Our orders in the fourth quarter of 2019 strengthened, driven by demand for equipment used in testing mobility semiconductor applications and automotive related devices. We remain optimistic about our future business prospects and are focused on cross-selling opportunities and supporting our customers deployment of 5G RF capabilities on next generation smartphones and we remain focused on growing our sales to semiconductor and electronics manufacturers and test subcontractors. Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances; however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our critical accounting estimates that we believe are the most important to investors understanding of our financial results and condition and require complex management judgment include: revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations; estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically product warranty, inventory reserves and allowance for bad debts, which impact gross margin or operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits, the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and accounting for the impact of the recent change to U.S. tax law as described herein, which impact our tax provision; 26 Table of Contents the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation; and the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Revenue Recognition: Our net sales are derived from the sale of products and services and are adjusted for estimated returns and allowances, which historically have been insignificant. We recognize revenue when the obligations under the terms of a contract with our customers are satisfied; generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of our systems, non-system products or services. In circumstances where control is not transferred until destination or acceptance, we defer revenue recognition until such events occur. Revenue for established products that have previously satisfied a customers acceptance requirements is generally recognized upon shipment. In cases where a prior history of customer acceptance cannot be demonstrated or from sales where customer payment dates are not determinable and in the case of new products, revenue and cost of sales are deferred until customer acceptance has been received. Our post-shipment obligations typically include installation and standard warranties. The estimated fair value of installation related revenue is recognized in the period the installation is performed. Service revenue is recognized over time as the transfer of control is completed for the related contract or upon completion of the services if they are short-term in nature. Spares, contactor and kit revenue is generally recognized upon shipment. Certain of our equipment sales have multiple performance obligations. These arrangements involve the delivery or performance of multiple performance obligations, and transfer of control of performance obligations may occur at different points in time or over different periods of time. For arrangements containing multiple performance obligations, the revenue relating to the undelivered performance obligation is deferred using the relative standalone selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until satisfaction of the deferred performance obligation. Unsatisfied performance obligations primarily represent contracts for products with future delivery dates. At December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 we had $10.0 million and $19.1 million of revenue expected to be recognized in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied), respectively. We generally sell our equipment with a product warranty. The product warranty provides assurance to customers that delivered products are as specified in the contract (an assurance-type warranty). Therefore, we account for such product warranties under ASC 460, Guarantees (ASC 460) , and not as a separate performance obligation. The transaction price reflects our expectations about the consideration we will be entitled to receive from the customer and may include fixed or variable amounts. Fixed consideration primarily includes sales to customers that are known as of the end of the reporting period. Variable consideration includes sales in which the amount of consideration that we will receive is unknown as of the end of a reporting period. Such consideration primarily includes sales made to certain customers with cumulative tier volume discounts offered. Variable consideration arrangements are rare; however, when they occur, we estimate variable consideration as the expected value to which we expect to be entitled. Included in the transaction price estimate are amounts in which it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. The estimate is based on information available for projected future sales. Variable consideration that does not meet revenue recognition criteria is deferred. Accounts receivable represents our unconditional right to receive consideration from our customer. Payments terms do not exceed one year from the invoice date and therefore do not include a significant financing component. To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable. There were no material contract assets recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented. On shipments where sales are not recognized, gross profit is generally recorded as deferred profit in our consolidated balance sheet representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the inventory shipped. On December 31, 2017, the first day of our fiscal 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09) , which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. For additional information on the impact this new standard had on our revenue recognition and results of operations see recently adopted accounting pronouncements in Note 1 Accounting Policies in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. 27 Table of Contents Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans. We record valuation reserves on our inventory for estimated excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or net realizable value concerns equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future product demand, market conditions and product selling prices. If future product demand, market conditions or product selling prices are less than those projected by management or if continued modifications to products are required to meet specifications or other customer requirements, increases to inventory reserves may be required which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Income Taxes: We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits. Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations. We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets. Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of December 28, 2019, was approximately $140.3 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $93.5 million. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017. The accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act was completed in 2018. See Note 8, Income Taxes, included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Segment Information: We applied the provisions of ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting , (ASC 280), which sets forth a management approach to segment reporting and establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures about products, major customers and the geographies in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue. An operating segment is defined as a component that engages in business activities whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker and for which discrete financial information is available. After the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, we have determined that our four identified operating segments are: Test Handler Group (THG), Semiconductor Tester Group (STG), Interface Solutions Group (ISG) and PCB Test Group (PTG). Our THG, STG and ISG operating segments qualify for aggregation under ASC 280 due to similarities in their customers, their economic characteristics, and the nature of products and services provided. As a result, we report in two segments, Semiconductor Test & Inspection and PCB Test. Goodwill, Purchased Intangible Assets and Other Long-lived Assets: We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, an impairment charge is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on customer forecasts, industry trade organization data and general economic conditions. 28 Table of Contents We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there was no impairment as of October 1, 2019, as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date. Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates. As of December 28, 2019, we do not believe that circumstances have occurred that indicate impairment of our goodwill is more-likely-than-not. In the event we determine that an interim goodwill impairment review is required in a future period, the review may result in an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. We evaluate our indefinite-lived intangible assets associated with in-process research and development by comparing the fair value of each project with its carrying value. This evaluation is completed annually and whenever indicators of impairment are present. Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the assets carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized. Our warranty obligation estimates are affected by historical product shipment levels, product performance and material and labor costs incurred in correcting product performance problems. Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Contingencies: We are subject to certain contingencies that arise in the ordinary course of our businesses which require us to assess the likelihood that future events will confirm the existence of a loss or an impairment of an asset. If a loss or asset impairment is probable and the amount of the loss or impairment is reasonably estimable, we accrue a charge to operations in the period such conditions become known. Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit. Share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant. Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 1, Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Recent Transactions Impacting Results of Operations On October 1, 2018 we completed the acquisition of Xcerra Corporation and the results of its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements only since that date. Due to the timing of the acquisition our prior year results only include Xcerra for the three months ended December 29, 2018, and current year results include Xcerra for the twelve months ended December 28, 2019. Management determined that the fixtures services business, that was acquired as part of Xcerra, did not align with Cohus long-term strategic plan and management divested this portion of the business in February 2020. As a result, the assets of our fixtures business are considered held for sale and the operations of our fixtures business are considered discontinued operations as of both December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussion below covers the comparative results from continuing operations. 29 Table of Contents The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: 2019 2018 2017 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (60.6 ) (64.7 ) (59.3 ) Gross margin 39.4 35.3 40.7 Research and development (14.8 ) (12.5 ) (11.6 ) Selling, general and administrative (24.5 ) (21.4 ) (17.2 ) Amortization of purchased intangible assets (6.8 ) (3.8 ) (1.2 ) Restructuring charges (2.3 ) (4.1 ) - Total operating expenses (48.4 ) (41.8 ) (30.0 ) Income (loss) from operations (9.0 )% (6.6 )% 10.7 % Please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on March 14, 2019, for comparative discussion of our fiscal years ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017. 2019 Compared to 2018 Net Sales Cohus consolidated net sales increased 29.1% from $451.8 million in 2018 to $583.3 million in 2019. The increase in our consolidated net sales was a result of the acquisition of Xcerra which generated $300.8 million in 2019 and $94.4 million in 2018. Excluding the impact of Xcerra, our consolidated net sales decreased year over year as a result of softer demand for smartphones, weaker automotive semiconductor demand, ongoing softness in the China market that is in part related to trade tensions between the U.S. and China and export restrictions. Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales (excluding the impact of amortization of developed technology and backlog). Cost of sales consists primarily of the materials, assembly and test labor and overhead from operations. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix of products sold, product support costs, increases to inventory reserves, the sale of previously reserved inventory and utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 39.4% in 2019 from 35.3% in 2018. The significant components driving the improvement in our gross margin are discussed below. We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using inventory usage forecasts ranging from one to three years. During 2019, we recorded net charges to cost of sales of approximately $4.1 million, for excess and obsolete inventory. Additionally, as part of the integration and restructuring activities related to Xcerra we recorded $2.7 million of inventory related charges related to the decision to end manufacturing of certain of Xcerras semiconductor test handler products. In 2018, net charges to cost of sales were $1.4 million, for excess and obsolete inventory and we recorded $19.1 million of inventory related charges related to the decision to end manufacturing of certain of Xcerras semiconductor test handler products. We believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at December 28, 2019. Reductions in customer forecasts, continued modifications to products, our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our gross margin in future periods. Additionally, our cost of sales was impacted by the amortization of inventory step-up related to fair value adjustments to inventory acquired from Xcerra. In 2019 and 2018, we amortized $6.0 million and $14.8 million of inventory step-up, respectively. Research and Development Expense (R&D Expense) R&D expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in ongoing research, product design and development activities, costs of engineering materials and supplies and professional consulting expenses. Our future operating results depend, to a considerable extent, on our ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the products we provide, and historically we have maintained our commitment to investing in R&D in order to be able to continue to offer new products to our customers. R&D expense in 2019 was $86.1 million, or 14.8% of net sales, increasing from $56.4 million, or 12.5% of net sales in 2018. The increase in our R&D expense in 2019 was associated with the acquisition of Xcerra, which added product development expenses totaling $45.4 million in 2019 as compared to incremental costs of $11.6 million in 2018. R&D costs unrelated to Xcerra decreased due to cost control initiatives implemented as a result of current business conditions. 30 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A Expense) SG&A expense consists primarily of salaries and benefit costs of employees, commission expense for independent sales representatives, product promotion and costs of professional services. SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales increased to 24.5% in 2019, from 21.4% in 2018, while increasing in absolute dollars from $96.8 million in 2018 to $142.9 million in 2019. The increase in SG&A expense recognized in 2019 was a result of a full years incremental expenses from Xcerra totaling $84.8 million. Incremental SG&A expense in 2018 from Xcerra was $24.9 million. Our SG&A expenses unrelated to Xcerras operations decreased primarily due to transaction related expenses and other items as described below. During each of the last two years Cohu has incurred costs specifically related to business acquisitions. In 2019, acquisition costs totaled $0.4 million and were entirely comprised of professional service and other transaction related expenses associated with the acquisition of Xcerra. In 2018, acquisition costs totaled $10.5 million and were comprised of $9.8 million of professional service and other transaction related expenses associated with the acquisition of Xcerra. Additionally, during 2018 we recorded $0.7 million related to mark-to-market adjustments made to the fair value of the Kita acquisition-related contingent consideration liability. In 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.2 million and $0.9 million of expense, respectively, related to a reduction of an indemnification receivable related to an uncertain tax position recorded in the acquisition of Ismeca Semiconductor Holdings SA (Ismeca) in 2013. In connection with this reduction we also booked a corresponding amount as a credit to our income tax provision and, as a result, the impact of this reduction on net income was zero. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of purchased intangibles is the process of expensing the cost of an intangible asset acquired through a business combination over the projected life of the asset. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $39.6 million and $17.2 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively. The year over year increase in amortization expense in 2019 was driven by amortization of purchased intangible assets obtained from Xcerra. See Note 2, Business Acquisitions in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K for additional information with respect to intangible assets. Restructuring Charges Subsequent to the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, during fourth quarter 2018, we began a strategic restructuring program designed to reposition our organization and improve our cost structure as part of our targeted integration plan regarding Xcerra. We recorded restructuring charges, exclusive of the inventory related charges described above, totaling $13.5 million and $18.7 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. See Note 5, Restructuring Charges in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K for additional information with respect to restructuring charges. Interest Expense and Income Interest expense was $20.6 million in 2019 as compared to $5.0 million in 2018. The increase was a result of interest associated with the Term B Loan obtained to finance part of the purchase of Xcerra on October 1, 2018. As a result of the timing of the transaction and the related financing, 2019 includes interest expense for the full twelve months of 2019, whereas 2018 only includes interest expense for the three months after the acquisition. See Note 4, Borrowings and Credit Agreements, included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Interest income was $0.8 million in 2019 as compared to $1.2 million in 2018 and decreased due to lower interest rates and lower investment holdings. 31 Table of Contents Foreign Transaction Gain (Loss) and Other We have operations in foreign countries and conduct business in the local currency in these countries. In 2019 we incurred an insignificant foreign currency transaction gain for the year. In 2018, the U.S. Dollar weakened against primarily the Swiss Franc and Euro, which resulted in the recognition of $1.7 million in foreign currency transaction losses. Income Taxes The income tax provision (benefit) expressed as a percentage of pre-tax income or loss in 2019 and 2018 was (4.3)% and 2.0%, respectively. The income tax provision for the years ended December 28, 2019, and December 29, 2018, differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to changes in the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates, releases from statute expirations, impact of the Tax Act and other factors. Companies are required to assess whether a valuation allowance should be recorded against their deferred tax assets (DTAs) based on the consideration of all available evidence, using a more likely than not realization standard. The four sources of taxable income that must be considered in determining whether DTAs will be realized are, (1) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences (i.e. offset of gross deferred tax assets against gross deferred tax liabilities); (2) taxable income in prior carryback years, if carryback is permitted under the tax law; (3) tax planning strategies and (4) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards. In assessing whether a valuation allowance is required, significant weight is to be given to evidence that can be objectively verified. We have evaluated our DTAs at each reporting period, including an assessment of our cumulative income or loss over the prior three-year period and future periods, to determine if a valuation allowance was required. A significant negative factor in our assessment was Cohus three-year cumulative loss history at the end of various fiscal periods including 2019. As a result of our cumulative, three-year U.S. GAAP pretax loss from continuing operations at the end of 2019, we were unable to conclude that it was more likely than not that our U.S. DTAs would be realized. We will evaluate the realizability of our DTAs at the end of each quarterly reporting period in 2020 and, should circumstances change, it is possible an additional valuation allowance will be recorded or the remaining valuation allowance, or a portion thereof, will be reversed in a future period. Our valuation allowance on our DTAs at December 28, 2019, and December 29, 2018, was approximately $93.5 million and $84.7 million, respectively. The remaining gross DTAs for which a valuation allowance was not recorded are realizable primarily through future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and to a lesser extent future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards. As the realization of DTAs is determined by tax jurisdiction, the deferred tax liabilities recorded by our non-U.S. subsidiaries were not a source of taxable income in assessing the realization of our DTAs in the U.S. For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate and further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 8, Income Taxes, included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and Net Income (Loss) As a result of the factors set forth above, our net loss from continuing operations was $69.0 million in 2019, compared to $32.5 million in 2018. Including the results of our discontinued operations, our net loss in 2019 and 2018 was $69.7 million and $32.4 million, respectively. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The seasonal and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by operations and we manage our business to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. 32 Table of Contents On October 1, 2018, we entered into a bank credit agreement which provides for a $350.0 million seven-year Term B Loan facility and borrowed the full amount. The Term B Loan facility matures on October 1, 2025. These proceeds were used on October 1, 2018, together with our cash and cash equivalents, to finance the acquisition of Xcerra. See Note 4 Borrowings and Credit Agreements included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. At December 28, 2019, our total indebtedness, net of discount and deferred financing costs, was $353.1 million, which included $339.1 million outstanding under the Term B Loan, $3.8 million outstanding under Kitas term loans, $5.5 million outstanding under Rascos construction loans, $3.2 million outstanding under Kitas lines of credit, and $1.5 million outstanding under Xcerras term loan. We believe that our sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by a decrease in demand for our products. In addition, we may make acquisitions or increase our capital expenditures and may need to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to provide for greater flexibility to fund these activities. Additional financing may not be available or not available on terms favorable to us. Liquidity Working Capital: The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital at December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018: (in thousands) 2019 2018 Decrease Percentage Change Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 156,098 $ 165,020 $ (8,922 ) (5.4 )% Working capital $ 290,811 $ 324,650 $ (33,839 ) (10.4 )% As of December 28, 2019, $92.7 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding taxes if we repatriate these funds. Except for working capital requirements in certain jurisdictions, we provide for all withholding and other residual taxes related to unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. Beginning in 2018, earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions are subject to U.S. tax in accordance with the Tax Act. Cash Flows Operating Activities: Cash provided by operating activities consists of our net loss adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities. These adjustments include depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, share-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, deferred income taxes and amortization of inventory step-up and inventory related charges related to Xcerra. Our net cash flows provided by operating activities in 2019 totaled $17.3 million compared to $34.4 million in 2018. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in the current year was a result of weaker business conditions and our net loss, but was also impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities which included decreases in accounts receivable, income taxes payable and accounts payable. Lower business volume in the fourth quarter of 2019 and the timing of the resulting cash conversion cycle drove the $21.2 million reduction in accounts receivable. Income taxes payable decreased $10.7 million a result of tax payments made in certain foreign jurisdictions. Excluding the impact of amounts accrued for fixed assets and cloud computing, our accounts payable decreased $3.1 million as a result of decreased business conditions and the timing of cash payments made to our suppliers. Cash provided by operating activities was also impacted by increases in other current assets of $6.0 million and accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities of $2.1 million which was driven, primarily by increases in interest payable and customer advances, offset by lower accruals for incentive compensation and warranty due to decreased sales in 2019. Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our business, purchases of investments, proceeds from investment maturities, business acquisitions, asset disposals and business divestitures. Our net cash used in investing activities in 2019 totaled $16.5 million. Additions to property, plant and equipment in 2019 were $18.0 million and were made to support the operating and development activities of our Semiconductor Test & Inspection segment. During 2019 we generated cash totaling $1.8 million from the sale of land and fixed assets. 33 Table of Contents Financing Activities: In fiscal 2019, our cash used in financing activities totaled $8.2 million. During 2019, we paid dividends totaling $9.8 million, or $0.24 per common share and on February 12, 2020, we announced a cash dividend of $0.06 per share on our common stock, payable on April 9, 2020, to stockholders of record as of February 25, 2020. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. During 2019, we received proceeds under a construction loan totaling $5.5 million and made debt payments totaling $3.8 million. Proceeds from the construction loan are being used to expand our facility in Kolbermoor, Germany enabling us to consolidate the German operations of our Semiconductor Test & Inspection segment in 2020. Capital Resources In addition to the bank credit agreement which provides for a $350.0 million seven-year Term B Loan facility as described above, we have access to other credit facilities to finance our operations if needed. As a result of our acquisition of Xcerra, we assumed a term loan related to the purchase of Xcerras facility in Rosenheim, Germany. The loan is payable over 10 years at an annual interest rate of 2.35%. Principal plus accrued interest is due quarterly over the duration of the term loan. At December 28, 2019, the outstanding loan balance was $1.5 million and $0.3 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets. The term loan is denominated in Euros and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. In connection with the acquisition of Kita on January 4, 2017, we assumed a series of revolving credit facilities with various financial institutions in Japan. The revolving credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $8.8 million. At December 28, 2019, total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $3.2 million. As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our consolidated balance sheet. We also assumed long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $3.8 million primarily related to the expansion of Kitas facility in Osaka, Japan. The loans are collateralized by the facility and land. The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.43% and expire at various dates through 2034. At December 28, 2019, $0.4 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates. On July 26, 2019, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries located in Germany entered into two construction loans (Loan Facilities) with a German financial institution providing total borrowing of 8.6 million. The Loan Facilities have 10-year and 15-year terms, which commenced on August 1, 2019, the initial draw-down date. The Loan Facilities are being utilized to finance the expansion of our facility in Kolbermoor, Germany, enabling us to combine the operations of multiple subsidiaries in one location as part of our previously announced strategic restructuring program. The Loan Facilities are secured by the land and the existing building on the site and bear interest at agreed upon rates based on separate 3.4 million and 5.2 million facility amounts. On August 1, 2019, the full 3.4 million was drawn under the first facility, which is payable over 10 years at an annual interest rate of 0.8%. Interest payments only are required to be made each quarter starting in September 2019 with principal and interest payments due each quarter starting in the month of December 2021. Principal repayments will be made over 8 years starting at the end of 2021. On December 10, 2019, we drew 1.5 million under the second facility, which is payable over 15 years at an annual interest rate of 1.05%. Interest payments only are required to be made each quarter starting in December 2019 with principal and interest payments due each quarter starting in the month of May 2020. Principal repayments will be made over 15 years starting at the end of May 2020. As of December 28, 2019, 3.7 million had not been drawn under the second facility as is expected to be drawn in the first half of 2020. At December 28, 2019, total outstanding borrowings under the Loan Facilities was $5.5 million with $0.3 million of the total outstanding balance being presented as current installments of long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets based on contractual due dates. The loans are denominated in Euros and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates. The fair value of the debt approximates the carrying value at December 28, 2019. 34 Table of Contents We have a secured letter of credit facility (the Secured Facility) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on behalf of Cohu and our subsidiaries. The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding standby letters of credit. In addition, our wholly owned subsidiary, Xcerra, has arrangements with various financial institutions for the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees. As of December 28, 2019, $1.1 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit and bank guarantees. Our wholly owned subsidiary Ismeca Semiconductor Holdings SA (Ismeca) has an agreement with UBS (the Ismeca Facility) under which they administer lines of credit on behalf of Ismeca. Total borrowings available under the Ismeca Facility are 2.0 million Swiss Francs and at December 28, 2019, no amounts were outstanding. We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 28, 2019, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Amounts excluded include our liability for unrecognized tax benefits that totaled approximately $34.6 million at December 28, 2019. We are currently unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount or period(s) the cash settlement of this liability may occur. Fiscal year-end (in thousands) Total 2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 Thereafter Operating leases (1) $ 45,001 $ 7,383 $ 11,625 $ 9,679 $ 16,314 Finance Leases (2) 2,631 2,631 Bank term loans principal and interest 462,534 22,498 45,104 44,152 350,780 Revolving credit facilities 3,195 3,195 - - - Total contractual obligations $ 513,361 $ 35,707 $ 56,729 $ 53,831 $ 367,094 (1) Excludes an insignificant amount of short-term lease obligations. (2) Includes fair value mark-up of lease obligation as a result of Xcerra acquisition. The table above does not include pension, post-retirement benefit and warranty obligations because it is not certain when these liabilities will be funded. For additional information regarding our pension and post-retirement benefits obligations see Note 6, Employee Benefit Plans and for more information on our contractual obligations, see Note 12, Guarantees in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers. From time-to-time, we enter into commitments with our vendors and outsourcing partners to purchase inventory at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within relatively short time horizons. We typically do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for the next three months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit instruments to certain parties as required. As of December 28, 2019, $1.1 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit.