Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2015 This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute. Such forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and beliefs, including estimates and projections about our business and include, but are not limited to, statements concerning financial position, business strategy, and plans or objectives for future operations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and may cause actual results to differ materially from managements current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include those set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect managements outlook at any other point in time. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason, however, readers should carefully review the risk factors set forth in other reports or documents we file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Quarterly Report. OVERVIEW Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal sub-systems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors. Our business is significantly dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors, which in turn is dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors that is subject to cyclical trends. We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be cyclical and volatile in part because consumer electronics, the principal end market for integrated circuits, is a highly dynamic industry and demand is difficult to accurately predict. Orders for semiconductor test and assembly equipment as reported by Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) reached a plateau in April 2015 and the global demand for back-end equipment was down sequentially in the third quarter of 2015. We monitor back-end equipment utilization on our customers test floors and current back-end equipment utilization is below the level that typically triggers capacity additions. However, we are encouraged by what we consider to be relatively high levels of utilization at our integrated device manufacturer (IDM) customers. We believe the current slowdown is a momentary pause in the market as customers digest the significant test capacity added in 2014. Additionally, some customers are being cautious due to macro-economic environment uncertainty in Europe and China that impacts consumer confidence and spending. Despite the near term market softness, we remain optimistic about the long-term prospects for the semiconductor equipment industry due to the increasing technological functionality of mobile devices, growing integrated circuit content in automotive, consumer and industrial applications, and the projected adoption of high brightness LEDs in general lighting. We are focused on working to gain market share and to expand into the adjacent test contactor and wafer level package (WLP) probing markets. Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our critical accounting estimates that we believe are the most important to an investors understanding of our financial results and condition and require complex management judgment include: revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations; estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically product warranty, inventory reserves and allowance for bad debts, which impact gross margin or operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, which impact our tax provision; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation or amortization; and the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense. 17 Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2015 Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Revenue Recognition: We generally recognize revenue upon shipment and title passage for established products (i.e., those that have previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements) that provide for full payment tied to shipment. Revenue for products that have not previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements or from sales where customer payment dates are not determinable is recognized upon customer acceptance. In certain instances, customer payment terms may provide that a minority portion (e.g. 20%) of the equipment purchase price be paid only upon customer acceptance. In those situations, the majority portion (e.g. 80%) of revenue where payment is tied to shipment and the entire product cost of sale are recognized upon shipment and passage of title and the minority portion of the purchase price related to customer acceptance is deferred and recognized upon receipt of customer acceptance. For arrangements containing multiple elements the revenue relating to the undelivered elements is deferred using the relative selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until delivery of the deferred elements. We limit the amount of revenue recognition for delivered elements to the amount that is not contingent on the future delivery of products or services, future performance obligations or subject to customer-specified return or adjustment. On shipments where sales are not recognized, gross profit is generally recorded as deferred profit in our consolidated balance sheet representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the inventory shipped. Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans. We record valuation reserves on our inventory for estimated excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future product demand, market conditions and product selling prices. If future product demand, market conditions or product selling prices are less than those projected by management or if continued modifications to products are required to meet specifications or other customer requirements, increases to inventory reserves may be required which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Income Taxes: We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits. Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations. We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets. Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of September 26, 2015 was approximately $48.6 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $42.5 million. Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards. Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets: We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on customer forecasts, industry trade organization data and general economic conditions. 18 Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2015 We conduct our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1st of each year. As of October 1, 2014, we concluded there was no impairment as the estimated fair value of our reporting unit exceeded its carrying values by approximately 35%. Previously, it has been our determination that the Rasco and Ismeca trade names had an indefinite life. On September 24, 2015, we introduced a rebranding initiative and unveiled a new Cohu logo. The primary goal of the change was to improve the cohesiveness of our organization and come to the market as one brand. The Rasco and Ismeca trade names have value associated with their long established identities and reputation within the back-end test and assembly equipment market and continuing to utilize the value of these brand identities is an integral part of our strategy. We review the assessment of indefinite life for our trade names each period to determine whether the indefinite life assumption continues to be supportable. If it is deemed unsupportable the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made and amortization is recognized on a prospective basis. As a result of the rebranding initiative, we determined that the classification of the useful life of our trade names as indefinite was no longer appropriate based on our expectations of the future period over which they will provide economic benefit to Cohu. When an intangible asset that is not being amortized is subsequently determined to have a finite useful life there is a requirement for the asset to be tested for impairment in accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other. We have completed an interim impairment assessment that indicates the fair value of the Rasco and Ismeca trade names, as of September 24, 2015, exceed their carrying values by 4% and 17%, respectively. We believe the assumptions used in the interim impairment analysis are reasonable. However, the analysis is sensitive to adverse changes in the assumptions used in the valuations. In particular, changes in the projected cash flows, discount rates, royalty rates and other market based assumptions could produce significantly different results for the impairment analysis which could result in future impairment charges. Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the assets carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the assets carrying amount and estimated fair value. Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized. Our warranty obligation estimates are affected by historical product shipment levels, product performance and material and labor costs incurred in correcting product performance problems. Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Contingencies: We are subject to certain contingencies that arise in the ordinary course of our businesses which require us to assess the likelihood that future events will confirm the existence of a loss or an impairment of an asset. If a loss or asset impairment is probable and the amount of the loss or impairment is reasonably estimable, we accrue a charge to operations in the period such conditions become known. Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit. Share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1, Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. 19 Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2015 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In June 2015, we sold our mobile microwave communications equipment business and in June 2014, we sold our video camera business. The operating results of these businesses are being presented as discontinued operations and all prior period amounts have been reclassified. Unless otherwise indicated the discussion below covers the comparative results from continuing operations. The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended September 26, September 27, September 26, September 27, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (66.2 )% (64.0 )% (66.7 )% (65.8 )% Gross margin 33.8 % 36.0 % 33.3 % 34.2 % Research and development (12.7 )% (9.4 )% (12.1 )% (11.9 )% Selling, general and administrative (17.7 )% (13.5 )% (18.4 )% (16.9 )% Income from operations 3.4 % 13.1 % 2.8 % 5.4 % Third Quarter of Fiscal 2015 Compared to Third Quarter of Fiscal 2014 Net Sales Our sales decreased 26.3% to $67.5 million in 2015, compared to net sales of $91.6 million in 2014. Global demand for back-end semiconductor test and assembly equipment is highly cyclical. In April 2015, global orders for back-end equipment reached a plateau and consistent with the broader market, our equipment sales were down year-over-year. We believe the slowdown in demand is a momentary pause in the market as our customers digest the significant test capacity added in 2014. Gross Margin Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of the materials, assembly and test labor and overhead from operations. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix of products sold, product support costs, increase to inventory reserves or the sale of previously reserved inventory and utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 33.8% in 2015 from 36.0% in 2014. Despite lower charges for excess and obsolete inventory in 2015, our gross margin decreased year-over-year as lower business volume did not allow us to generate the same operating leverage as 2014. We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast. In the third quarter of 2015 we recorded charges to cost of sales of $0.7 million for excess and obsolete inventory. In the third quarter of 2014, we recorded charges of approximately $1.2 million. While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at September 26, 2015, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, as a result of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our gross margin in future periods. Research and Development Expense (R&D Expense) R&D expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in ongoing research, product design and development activities, costs of engineering materials and supplies and professional consulting expenses. R&D expense was $8.6 million in both 2015 and 2014 representing 12.7% and 9.4% of net sales, respectively. R&D costs increased as a percentage of net sales in 2015 as a result of lower sales. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A Expense) SG&A expense consists primarily of salaries and benefit costs of employees, commission expense for independent sales representatives, product promotion and costs of professional services. SG&A expense was $11.9 million or 17.7% in 2015, compared to $12.4 million or 13.5% in 2014. In 2015, as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar primarily against the Swiss Franc and Malaysian Ringgit, we recorded $1.5 million of translation gains in the third quarter of 2015. During the corresponding period of 2014 the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and the Swiss Franc resulted in foreign currency translation gains of $1.0 million. 20 Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2015 Income Taxes Ordinarily, interim tax provisions are calculated using the estimated effective tax rate (ETR) expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year. However, when a reliable estimate of the annual ETR cannot be made, the actual ETR for the year-to-date period may be the best estimate of the annual ETR. For the three months ended September 26, 2015 and September 27, 2014 we used the actual year-to-date ETR in computing our tax provision, as a reliable estimate of the annual ETR cannot be made, since relatively small changes in our projected income produce a significant variation in our ETR. The actual year-to-date ETR on income from continuing operations for the three months ended September 26, 2015 and September 27, 2014 , was 41.3% and 16.7%, respectively. The tax provision on income from continuing operations in 2015 and 2014 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the lack of a provision (benefit) on our domestic income (losses) as a result of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at lower rates, changes in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance, state taxes and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits. Other than for foreign currency exchange rate changes, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits during the three months ended September 26, 2015. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations was $1.3 million in 2015, compared to $10.0 million in 2014. Including the results of our discontinued mobile microwave communication equipment business, which included a loss on sale of $0.2 million, our net income in the third fiscal quarter of 2015 was $1.1 million. In 2014, which includes the results of both our discontinued businesses our net income was $7.5 million. First Nine Months of Fiscal 2015 Compared to First Nine Months of Fiscal 2014 Net Sales Our consolidated net sales decreased 8.8% to $206.2 million in 2015, compared to net sales of $226.0 million in 2014. Global market demand for back-end semiconductor test and assembly equipment is highly cyclical and after adding significant test capacity in 2014, consistent with the broader market, our sales of equipment declined year-over-year. Gross Margin Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 33.3% in 2015 from 34.2% in 2014. Current year gross margin benefited from lower charges for excess and obsolete inventory and lower amortization of purchased intangibles but overall our gross margin in 2015 was lower as it was unfavorably impacted by lower business volume and product mix. During the first nine months of fiscal 2015 and 2014 we recorded net charges to cost of sales of approximately $1.9 million and $3.5 million, respectively, for excess and obsolete inventory. R&D Expense R&D expense was $24.9 million or 12.1% of net sales in 2015, compared to $26.9 million or 11.9% in 2014. Lower R&D spending during the first nine months of 2015 resulted from the completion of certain development programs, as planned, and headcount reductions made in 2015. SG&A Expense SG&A expense was $38.0 million or 18.4% of net sales in 2015, compared to $38.2 million or 16.9% in 2014. SG&A expense in the first nine months of 2015 benefitted from the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar primarily against the Swiss Franc which resulted in the recognition of $1.1 million in foreign currency translation gains. The impact of foreign currency translation in the corresponding period of 2014 was a gain of $0.9 million. In 2015, we incurred $0.5 million of costs in connection with transitioning our manufacturing to Asia and employee severance. In the first nine months of 2014 we incurred $1.2 million of manufacturing transition and severance costs. The first nine months of 2015 includes the periodic recognition of an additional $0.9 million of employee share based compensation expense. This amount was driven primarily by the number of employee stock options and restricted and performance share awards subject to vesting during the period and the corresponding valuation established on the date of grant. Income Taxes For the nine months ended September 26, 2015 and September 27, 2014, we used the actual year-to-date ETR in computing our tax provision, as a reliable estimate of the annual ETR cannot be made, since relatively small changes in our projected income produce a significant variation in our ETR. The actual year-to-date ETR on income from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 26, 2015 and September 27, 2014 , was 39.1% and 21.6%, respectively. The tax provision on income from continuing operations in 2015 and 2014 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the lack of a provision (benefit) on our domestic income (losses) as a result of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at lower rates, changes in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance, state taxes and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits. 21 Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2015 Other than for foreign currency exchange rate changes, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits during the nine months ended September 26, 2015. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations was $3.5 million in 2015 compared to $9.5 million in 2014. Including the results of our discontinued mobile microwave communication equipment business, which included a loss on sale of $3.2 million, we generated a net loss of $1.7 million in 2015. In 2014, which includes the results of both our discontinued businesses and a $4.1 million gain from the sale of Cohu Electronics, our net income was $8.3 million. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The cyclical and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our business to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. As of September 26, 2015, $64.5 million of our cash and cash equivalents and short term-investments was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes if we repatriate these funds. Our intent is to indefinitely reinvest these funds in our foreign operations and we have no current plans that would require us to repatriate these funds to the U.S. On September 21, 2015, we entered into an agreement and opened escrow for the sale of our Poway Facility for $34.3 million. The transaction is subject to completion of customary closing conditions and is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2015. However, there can be no assurance that the proposed transaction will close as scheduled, or at all. Should the transaction close, we anticipate entering into a ten-year lease with the buyer for a portion of the Poway Facility, enabling us to continue to operate at our current location. The transaction allows us to reduce the utilized space within the Poway Facility to better fit our current needs, as we have transitioned a significant portion of our manufacturing activities to Asia. Liquidity Working Capital: The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital: September 26, December 27, Increase Percentage (in thousands) 2015 2014 (Decrease) Change Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 90,727 $ 72,040 $ 18,687 25.9 % Working capital $ 143,528 $ 146,339 $ (2,811 ) (1.9 )% Cash Flows Operating Activities: Operating cash flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 consist of our net loss, adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items include asset impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, non-cash share-based compensation expense and deferred income taxes. Our net cash provided by operating activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 totaled $24.6 million. Cash provided by operating activities was impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities and, excluding the impact of the disposal of BMS, included decreases in accounts receivable of $12.9 million and accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities of $3.2 million, other current assets of $2.9 million, deferred profit of $1.1 million and increases in inventory of $5.3 million, accounts payable of $2.2 million and income taxes payable of $1.8 million. The decrease in accounts receivable resulted from lower business volume in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 and the timing of our cash conversion cycle. Accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities decreased as a result of lower business volume. Other current assets decreased as a result of utilization of supplier and vendor prepayments and the decrease in deferred profit is a result of the recognition of revenue that was previously deferred in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. Material purchases made to fulfill customer orders for equipment expected to ship in future quarters led to an increase in our inventory balance and accounts payable increased as a result of the timing of cash payments made to our suppliers and vendors. Current year increase in business volume in certain foreign jurisdictions led to an increase in income taxes payable. 22 Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations September 26, 2015 Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our businesses, proceeds from investment maturities, asset disposals and divestitures and cash used for purchases of investments and business acquisitions. Net cash provided by investing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2015 totaled $1.3 million and was driven primarily by $5.3 million of cash received from the sale of BMS on June 10, 2015. The decision to sell BMS resulted from Cohu managements determination that this industry segment was no longer a strategic fit within our organization. Additions to property, plant and equipment of $3.7 million were made to support the operating and development activities of our business. Financing Activities: Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders. We issue stock options and maintain an employee stock purchase plan as components of our overall employee compensation. In the first nine months of fiscal 2015, we generated net cash of $0.2 million issuing common stock under our employee stock plans and we paid dividends totaling $4.6 million, or $0.18 per common share. On October 27, 2015, Cohu's Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share payable on January 4, 2016 to shareholders of record on November 20, 2015. Future quarterly dividends are subject to our cash liquidity, capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Capital Resources We have a secured letter of credit facility (the Secured Facility) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf. The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit. As of September 26, 2015, we had approximately $0.2 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under the Secured Facility. We also have credit agreements with multiple financial institutions under which they administer lines of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary. The agreements provide Ismeca with 2.5 million Swiss Francs of available credit and at September 26, 2015, no amounts were outstanding. We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Contractual Obligations: Our significant contractual obligations consist of liabilities for operating leases, unrecognized tax benefits, pensions, post-retirement benefits and warranties. These obligations have not changed materially from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 27, 2014. Purchase Commitments: From time to time, we enter into commitments with our vendors and outsourcing partners to purchase inventory at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within relatively short time horizons. We typically do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for the next three months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit instruments to certain parties as required. As of September 26, 2015, the maximum potential amount of future payments that we could be required to make under these standby letters of credit was approximately $0.2 million. No liability has been recorded in connection with these arrangements beyond those required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed. We do not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these arrangements. 23