managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included in Part II, Item 7. In June 2015, we sold our mobile microwave communications equipment business and in June 2014, we sold our video camera business. The operating results of these businesses are being presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Years Ended, Dec. 29 Dec. 30 Dec. 31 Dec. 26 Dec. 27 (in thousands, except per share data) 2018 (1) (3) 2017 (2) (3) 2016 (4) 2015 2014 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net sales $ 451,768 $ 352,704 $ 282,084 $ 269,654 $ 316,629 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ (32,543) $ 33,121 (3) $ 3,260 $ 5,792 (5) $ 14,780 Net income (loss) $ (32,424) $ 32,843 (3) $ 3,039 $ 250 $ 8,708 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest $ (243) $ - $ - $ - $ - Net income (loss) attributable to Cohu $ (32,181) $ 32,843 (3) $ 3,039 $ 250 $ 8,708 Income (loss) from continuing operations - basic $ (1.02) $ 1.19 $ 0.12 $ 0.22 $ 0.58 Income (loss) from continuing operations - diluted $ (1.02) $ 1.15 $ 0.12 $ 0.22 $ 0.57 Net income (loss) attributable to Cohu - basic $ (1.01) $ 1.18 $ 0.11 $ 0.01 $ 0.34 Net income (loss) attributable to Cohu - diluted $ (1.01) $ 1.14 $ 0.11 $ 0.01 $ 0.33 Cash dividends per share, paid quarterly $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total Consolidated Assets $ 1,134,002 $ 420,457 $ 345,512 $ 345,346 $ 344,765 Total Debt $ 352,828 $ 8,963 $ - $ - $ - Working Capital $ 324,650 $ 212,171 $ 176,460 $ 171,272 $ 142,194 (1) On October 1, 2018, we purchased Xcerra and the results of its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since that date. Total operating expenses in 2018 include charges related to the acquisition of Xcerra as follows - $37.8 million in restructuring charges comprised of $19.1 million of inventory end-of-manufacturing write-downs related to one of Xcerras products, employee severance costs of $17.8 million and $0.9 million or other restructuring costs. We also recorded $13.1 million for the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and $9.8 million of merger related costs. (2) On January 4, 2017, we purchased Kita and the results of its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since that date. (3) Results for the years ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, include the impact from the Tax Act . See Note 8, Income Taxes in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K for additional information. (4) The year ended December 31, 2016 consists of 53 weeks. All other years in the table above are comprised of 52 weeks. (5) Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 26, 2015, includes a gain on the sale of facility totaling $3.2 million. 23 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. OVERVIEW Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems, semiconductor automated test equipment and bare-board printed circuit board test systems used by global semiconductor and electronics manufacturers and test subcontractors. We offer a wide range of products and services and our revenue from capital equipment products is driven by the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of our customers, who often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to variations in their business. The level of capital expenditures by these companies depends on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductor devices and PCBs and the products that incorporate them. Our consumable products are driven by an increase in the number of semiconductor devices and printed circuit boards that are tested and by the continuous introduction of new products and new technologies by our customers. As a result, our consumable products provide a more stable recurring source of revenue and generally do not have the same degree of cyclicality as our capital equipment products. For the year ended December 29, 2018, our net sales increased 28.1% year-over-year to $451.8 million. The increase in sales were primarily driven by the acquisition of Xcerra Corporation, completed on October 1, 2018, and our fourth quarter results included sales of $94.4 million contributed by this acquired business. Customer test cell utilization has weakened in the second half of 2018 with softer demand for smartphones and increasing geopolitical uncertainties, particularly related to trade tensions between the U.S. and China. We are still optimistic about the long-term prospects for our business due to increasing ubiquity of semiconductors, the future rollout of 5G networks, diminishing impact of parallel test, increasing semiconductor complexity, increasing quality demands from semiconductor customers, and continued proliferation of electronics in a variety of products across the automotive, mobility and industrial markets. We are focused on growing our market share with semiconductor and electronics manufacturers and test subcontractors. Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our critical accounting estimates that we believe are the most important to investors understanding of our financial results and condition and require complex management judgment include: revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations; estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically product warranty, inventory reserves and allowance for bad debts, which impact gross margin or operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits , the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and accounting for the impact of the recent change to U.S. tax law as described herein, which impact our tax provision; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation; and the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. 24 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition: Our net sales are derived from the sale of products and services and are adjusted for estimated returns and allowances, which historically have been insignificant. We recognize revenue when the obligations under the terms of a contract with our customers are satisfied; generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of our systems, non-system products or services. In circumstances where control is not transferred until destination or acceptance, we defer revenue recognition until such events occur. Revenue for established products that have previously satisfied a customers acceptance requirements is generally recognized upon shipment. In cases where a prior history of customer acceptance cannot be demonstrated or from sales where customer payment dates are not determinable and in the case of new products, revenue and cost of sales are deferred until customer acceptance has been received. Our post-shipment obligations typically include installation and standard warranties. The estimated fair value of installation related revenue is recognized in the period the installation is performed. Service revenue is recognized over time as the transfer of control is completed for the related contract or upon completion of the services if they are short-term in nature. Spares, contactor and kit revenue is generally recognized upon shipment. Certain of our equipment sales have multiple performance obligations. These arrangements involve the delivery or performance of multiple performance obligations, and transfer of control of performance obligations may occur at different points in time or over different periods of time. For arrangements containing multiple performance obligations, the revenue relating to the undelivered performance obligation is deferred using the relative standalone selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until satisfaction of the deferred performance obligation. Unsatisfied performance obligations primarily represent contracts for products with future delivery dates and with an original expected duration of one year or less. As allowed under ASC 606, we have opted to not disclose unsatisfied performance obligations as these contracts have original expected durations of less than one year. We generally sell our equipment with a product warranty. The product warranty provides assurance to customers that delivered products are as specified in the contract (an assurance-type warranty). Therefore, we account for such product warranties under ASC 460, Guarantees (ASC 460) , and not as a separate performance obligation. The transaction price reflects our expectations about the consideration we will be entitled to receive from the customer and may include fixed or variable amounts. Fixed consideration primarily includes sales to customers that are known as of the end of the reporting period. Variable consideration includes sales in which the amount of consideration that we will receive is unknown as of the end of a reporting period. Such consideration primarily includes sales made to certain customers with cumulative tier volume discounts offered. Variable consideration arrangements are rare; however, when they occur, we estimate variable consideration as the expected value to which we expect to be entitled. Included in the transaction price estimate are amounts in which it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. The estimate is based on information available for projected future sales. Variable consideration that does not meet revenue recognition criteria is deferred. Accounts receivable represents our unconditional right to receive consideration from our customer. Payments terms do not exceed one year from the invoice date and therefore do not include a significant financing component. To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable. There were no material contract assets or contract liabilities recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented. On shipments where sales are not recognized, gross profit is generally recorded as deferred profit in our consolidated balance sheet representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the inventory shipped. On December 31, 2017, the first day of our fiscal 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09) , which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. For additional information on the impact this new standard had on our revenue recognition and results of operations see recently adopted accounting pronouncements in Note 1 Accounting Policies in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans. We record valuation reserves on our inventory for estimated excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or net realizable value concerns equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future product demand, market conditions and product selling prices. If future product demand, market conditions or product selling prices are less than those projected by management or if continued modifications to products are required to meet specifications or other customer requirements, increases to inventory reserves may be required which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. 25 Table of Contents Income Taxes: The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017. The accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act was completed in 2018. See Note 8, Income Taxes, included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits. Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations. We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets. Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of December 29, 2018, was approximately $127.5 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $84.7 million. Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carry-forwards. Our gross deferred tax assets and valuation allowance increased significantly in 2018 as a result of the Xcerra acquisition. Segment Information: We applied the provisions of ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting , (ASC 280), which sets forth a management approach to segment reporting and establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures about products, major customers and the geographies in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue. An operating segment is defined as a component that engages in business activities whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker and for which discrete financial information is available. After the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, we have determined that our four identified operating segments are: Test Handler Group (THG), Semiconductor Tester Group (STG), Interface Solutions Group (ISG) and PCB Test Group (PTG). Our THG, STG and ISG operating segments qualify for aggregation under ASC 280 due to similarities in their customers, their economic characteristics, and the nature of products and services provided. As a result, we report in two segments, Semiconductor Test & Inspection and PCB Test. Goodwill, Purchased Intangible Assets and Other Long-lived Assets: We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on customer forecasts, industry trade organization data and general economic conditions. We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there is no impairment as of October 1, 2018, as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date. Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates. As of December 29, 2018, we do not believe there have been any events or circumstances that would require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment review. In the event we determine that an interim goodwill impairment review is required, in a future period, the review may result in an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the assets carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized. Our warranty obligation estimates are affected by historical product shipment levels, product performance and material and labor costs incurred in correcting product performance problems. Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Contingencies: We are subject to certain contingencies that arise in the ordinary course of our businesses which require us to assess the likelihood that future events will confirm the existence of a loss or an impairment of an asset. If a loss or asset impairment is probable and the amount of the loss or impairment is reasonably estimable, we accrue a charge to operations in the period such conditions become known. Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit. Share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant. Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 1, Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Recent Transactions Impacting Results of Operations On October 1, 2018 we completed the acquisition of Xcerra Corporation and the results of its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements only since that date. Management has determined that the fixtures services business, that was acquired as part of Xcerra, does not align with Cohus long-term strategic plan and management is in the process of divesting this portion of the business. As a result, the assets of our fixtures business are considered held for sale and the operations of our fixtures business are considered discontinued operations as of December 29, 2018. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussion below covers the comparative results from continuing operations. The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: 2018 2017 2016 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (1) (64.7 ) (59.3 ) (64.6 ) Gross margin (1) 35.3 40.7 35.4 Research and development (12.5 ) (11.6 ) (12.4 ) Selling, general and administrative (1) (21.4 ) (17.2 ) (19.6 ) Amortization of purchased intangible assets (1) (3.8 ) (1.2 ) (2.4 ) Restructuring charges (4.1 ) - - Total operating expenses (41.8 ) (30.0 ) (34.4 ) Income (loss) from operations (6.6 )% 10.7 % 1.0 % (1) In conjunction with the acquisition of Xcerra the Company assessed the need to realign its financial statement presentation and certain income statement classifications were adjusted with prior periods reclassified to conform with current period presentation. See Note 1, Reclassifications in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. 27 Table of Contents 2018 Compared to 2017 Net Sales Cohus consolidated net sales increased 28.1% from $352.7 million in 2017 to $451.8 million in 2018. On October 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Xcerra and our net sales for the year include $94.4 million of net sales recognized by this business from that date and is the primary driver of the increase in our net sales. Gross Margin Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales (excluding the impact of amortization of developed technology and backlog). Cost of sales consists primarily of the materials, assembly and test labor and overhead from operations. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix of products sold, product support costs, increases to inventory reserves, the sale of previously reserved inventory and utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 35.3% in 2018 from 40.7% in 2017. As discussed above certain items which have historically affected gross margin are now being reflected in operating expenses. Previously reported amounts were also adjusted to reflect current period presentation. This resulted in expenses totaling $13.6 million and $2.7 million being reported in amortization of intangibles rather than cost of sales in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Independent of the impact of the financial statement reclassifications gross margin in 2018 was impacted by the acquisition of Xcerra as discussed below. We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using inventory usage forecasts ranging from one to three years. During 2018, we recorded net charges to cost of sales of approximately $1.4 million, for excess and obsolete inventory. Additionally, as part of the integration and restructuring activities related to Xcerra we recorded $19.1 million of inventory related charges related to the decision to end manufacturing of certain of Xcerras semiconductor test handler products. In 2017, we recorded net charges to cost of sales of approximately $1.1 million, for excess and obsolete inventory. While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at December 29, 2018, reductions in customer forecasts, continued modifications to products, our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our gross margin in future periods. During both 2018 and 2017, our cost of sales was impacted by the amortization of inventory step-up related to fair value adjustments to inventory acquired in business combinations. During 2018 we amortized $14.8 million of inventory step-up related to our acquisition of Xcerra. In 2017 amortization of inventory step-up related to the acquisition of Kita totaled $1.4 million. Research and Development Expense (R&D Expense) R&D expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in ongoing research, product design and development activities, costs of engineering materials and supplies and professional consulting expenses. Our future operating results depend, to a considerable extent, on our ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the products we provide, and historically we have maintained our commitment to investing in R&D in order to be able to continue to offer new products to our customers. R&D expense in 2018 was $56.4 million, or 12.5% of net sales, increasing from $40.7 million, or 11.6% of net sales in 2017. The increase in R&D expense in 2018 was primarily associated with the acquisition of Xcerra, which added research and development expenses totaling $11.6 million. R&D expenses unrelated to Xcerra increased primarily due to higher labor and material expense associated with product development programs. R&D costs in 2017 were reduced by $1.1 million due to development cost reimbursements received under a cost-sharing arrangement. No cost reimbursements were received during 2018 as that development program was substantially completed in 2017. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A Expense) SG&A expense consists primarily of salaries and benefit costs of employees, commission expense for independent sales representatives, product promotion and costs of professional services. SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales increased to 21.4% of net sales in 2018, from 17.2% in 2017, while increasing in absolute dollars from $60.7 million in 2017 to $96.8 million in 2018. The increase in SG&A expense in 2018 was primarily associated with the acquisition of Xcerra, which added expenses totaling $24.9 million from its operations. As discussed above, certain items which have historically affected SG&A have been reclassified to amortization of purchased intangibles and foreign transaction gain (loss) and other. Previously reported amounts were also adjusted to reflect current year presentation. This resulted in expenses totaling $3.6 million and $1.5 million being reported in amortization of intangibles rather than SG&A in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Additionally, foreign currency transaction gains totaling $1.7 million and losses totaling $3.0 million recognized in 2018 and 2017, respectively, are now reported in foreign transaction gain (loss) and other. SG&A expenses unrelated to Xcerras operations increased primarily due to transaction related expenses and other items as described below. 28 Table of Contents During each of the last two years Cohu has incurred costs specifically related to business acquisitions. In 2018, acquisition costs totaled $10.5 million and were comprised of $9.8 million of professional service and other transaction related expenses associated with the acquisition of Xcerra. Additionally, during 2018 we recorded $0.7 million related to mark-to-market adjustments made to the fair value of the Kita acquisition-related contingent consideration liability. In 2017, total acquisition costs totaled $1.8 million and were comprised of $0.4 million of professional service costs and $1.4 million related to mark-to-market adjustments made to the fair value of the Kita acquisition related contingent consideration liability. In 2018 and 2017, we recorded $0.9 million and $1.2 million of expense, respectively, related to a reduction of an indemnification receivable related to an uncertain tax position recorded in the Ismeca acquisition. In connection with this reduction we also booked a corresponding amount as a credit to our income tax provision and, as a result, the impact of this reduction on net income was zero. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of purchased intangibles is the process of expensing the cost of an intangible asset acquired through a business combination over the projected life of the asset. As discussed above these amounts were previously recorded in cost of sales and SG&A. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $17.2 million and $4.2 million for 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in expense recorded during 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to $13.1 million of additional amortization recorded during the year ended December 29, 2018, associated with additional purchased intangible assets recorded as a result of the acquisition of Xcerra. See Note 2, Business Acquisitions in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K for additional information with respect to intangible assets. Restructuring Charges Subsequent to the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, during fourth quarter 2018, we began a strategic restructuring program designed to reposition our organization and improve our cost structure as part of our targeted integration plan regarding Xcerra and recorded restructuring charges, exclusive of the $19.1 million of inventory related charges described above, totaling $18.7 million in 2018. See Note 5, Restructuring Charges in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K for additional information with respect to restructuring charges. Interest Expense and Income Interest expense was $5.0 million in 2018 as compared to $0.1 million in 2017. The increase was primarily due to interest associated with the Term Loan B obtained to finance part of the purchase price of Xcerra. See Note 4, Borrowings and Credit Agreements, included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Interest income was $1.2 million in 2018 as compared to $0.7 million in 2017 due to higher interest rates. Foreign Transaction Gain (Loss) and Other We have operations in foreign countries and conduct business in the local currency in these countries. In 2018 we benefitted from the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against primarily the Swiss Franc and Euro, which resulted in the recognition of $1.7 million in foreign currency transaction gains for the year. In 2017, the U.S. Dollar weakened against primarily the Swiss Franc and Euro, which resulted in the recognition of $3.0 million in foreign currency transaction losses. As discussed foreign currency gains and losses were previously included as part of income from operations have been reclassified. 29 Table of Contents Income Taxes The income tax provision expressed as a percentage of pre-tax income or loss in 2018 and 2017 was (2.0)% and 6.3%, respectively. The income tax provision for the years ended December 29, 2018, and December 30, 2017, differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act, releases from statute expirations, non-deductible transaction costs, tax credits, stock and executive compensation, changes in the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates and other factors. Companies are required to assess whether a valuation allowance should be recorded against their deferred tax assets (DTAs) based on the consideration of all available evidence, using a more likely than not realization standard. The four sources of taxable income that must be considered in determining whether DTAs will be realized are, (1) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences (i.e. offset of gross deferred tax assets against gross deferred tax liabilities); (2) taxable income in prior carryback years, if carryback is permitted under the tax law; (3) tax planning strategies and (4) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards. In assessing whether a valuation allowance is required, significant weight is to be given to evidence that can be objectively verified. We have evaluated our DTAs each reporting period, including an assessment of our cumulative income or loss over the prior three-year period and future periods, to determine if a valuation allowance was required. A significant negative factor in our assessment was Cohu's three-year cumulative U.S. loss history at the end of various fiscal periods including 2018. As a result of our cumulative, three-year U.S. GAAP pretax loss from continuing operations at the end of 2018, we were unable to conclude at December 29, 2018 that it was more likely than not that our U.S. DTAs would be realized. We will evaluate the realizability of our DTAs at the end of each quarterly reporting period in 2019 and, should circumstances change, it is possible the remaining valuation allowance, or a portion thereof, will be reversed in a future period. Our valuation allowance on our DTAs at December 29, 2018, and December 30, 2017, was approximately $84.7 million and $31.5 million, respectively. The remaining gross DTAs for which a valuation allowance was not recorded are realizable primarily through future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. As the realization of DTAs is determined by tax jurisdiction, the deferred tax liabilities recorded by our non U.S. subsidiaries were not a source of taxable income in assessing the realization of our DTAs in the U.S. For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate and further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 8, Income Taxes, included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and Net Income (Loss) As a result of the factors set forth above, our net loss from continuing operations was $32.5 million in 2018, compared to income of $33.1 million in 2017. Including the results of our discontinued operations, our net loss in 2018 was $32.4 million and out net income in 2017 was $32.8 million. 2017 Compared to 2016 Net Sales Cohus consolidated net sales increased 25.0% from $282.1 million in 2016 to $352.7 million in 2017. Consolidated net sales in 2017 were up significantly as a result of improved business conditions within the semiconductor industry and our success in growing share in the test handler and test contactor markets. Increased sales in 2017 were driven by demand for equipment to test semiconductor devices used in automotive, mobility and IoT markets. Consolidated net sales in 2017 also include Kita, which was acquired on January 4, 2017. Kitas net sales for 2017 were $19.2 million. Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 40.7% in 2017 from 35.4% in 2016. As discussed above certain items which have historically affected gross margin are now being reflected in operating expenses and previously reported amounts were adjusted to reflect current year presentation. This resulted in amortization of purchased intangible assets expense totaling $2.7 million and $5.2 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively, being reported in intangible amortization expense in our consolidated statements of operations rather than cost of sales. Excluding the impact of the financial statement reclassifications, gross margin improved in 2017 due to favorable product mix, lower manufacturing costs because of our transition of volume handler manufacturing from the U.S. and Europe to Asia, as well as a significant increase in business volume which enabled us to better leverage our fixed costs. 30 Table of Contents During both 2017 and 2016, we recorded net charges to cost of sales of approximately $1.1 million, for excess and obsolete inventory. In 2017, cost of sales was impacted by the amortization of inventory step-up related to fair value adjustments of Kitas acquired inventory totaling $1.4 million. No inventory step-up charges were recorded in 2016. R&D Expense R&D expense in 2017 was $40.7 million, or 11.6% of net sales, increasing from $34.8 million, or 12.4% of net sales in 2016. New product development programs resulted in higher R&D labor and material expense in 2017 which was offset, in part, by $1.1 million of development cost reimbursements received under a cost-sharing arrangement. During 2016, we received cost reimbursements totaling $1.6 million under the same agreement which was executed in the first quarter of 2016. SG&A Expense As a result of increased business volume in 2017, SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales decreased to 17.2% of net sales in 2017, from 19.6% in 2016, while increasing in absolute dollars from $55.2 million in 2016 to $60.7 million in 2017. As discussed above, certain items which have historically been included in SG&A expense have been reclassified to intangible amortization expense and foreign transaction gain (loss) and other. Previously reported amounts were adjusted to reflect current year presentation which resulted in expenses totaling $1.5 million and $1.7 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively, being reported in intangible amortization expense rather than SG&A. Additionally, foreign currency transaction losses totaling $3.0 million and gains totaling $2.6 million recognized in 2017 and 2016, respectively, are now reported in foreign transaction gain (loss) and other. Manufacturing transition and employee severance costs were $1.0 million lower in 2017 because of the successful transition of certain volume handler manufacturing to Asia during 2016. Costs incurred specifically related to completing the acquisition of Kita in 2017 totaled $0.4 million and we recorded $1.4 million of expense related to mark-to-market adjustments made to the fair value of the Kita contingent consideration liability. In 2016, costs incurred specifically related to completing the acquisition of Kita totaled $1.8 million. Kitas SG&A expense in 2017 was $5.5 million. In 2017 and 2016, we recorded $1.2 million and $0.6 million of expense, respectively, related to a reduction of an indemnification receivable related to an uncertain tax position recorded in the Ismeca acquisition. In connection with this reduction we also booked a corresponding amount as a credit to our income tax provision and, as a result, the impact of this reduction on net income was zero. Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $4.2 million and $6.9 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in expense recorded during 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to certain purchased intangible assets that became fully amortized in December 2016, partially offset by additional amortization of $0.5 million of amortization recorded during the year ended December 30, 2017, associated with additional purchased intangible assets recorded as a result of the acquisition of Kita. See Note 2, Business Acquisitions in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K for additional information with respect to intangible assets. Income Taxes The income tax provision benefit expressed as a percentage of pre-tax income in 2017 and 2016 was 6.3% and 45.7%, respectively. The income tax provision for the years ended December 30, 2017, and December 31, 2016, differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act, releases from statute expirations, non-deductible transaction costs, tax credits, stock compensation, changes in the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates and other factors. 31 Table of Contents Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations was $33.1 million in 2017, compared to $3.3 million in 2016. Including the results of discontinued operations, net income in 2017 and 2016 was $32.8 million and $3.0 million, respectively. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The seasonal and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by operations and we manage our business to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. On October 1, 2018, we entered into a bank credit agreement which provides for a $350.0 million seven-year Term B Loan facility and borrowed the full amount. The Term B Loan facility matures on October 1, 2025. These proceeds were used on October 1, 2018, together with our cash and cash equivalents, to finance the acquisition of Xcerra. See Note 4 Borrowings and Credit Agreements included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. At December 29, 2018, our total indebtedness, net of discount and deferred financing costs, was $350.1 million, which included $340.6 million outstanding under the Term B Loan, $4.6 million outstanding under Kitas term loans, $3.1 million outstanding under Kitas lines of credit, and $1.8 million outstanding under Xcerras term loan. We believe that our sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by a decrease in demand for our products. In addition, we may make acquisitions or increase our capital expenditures and may need to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to provide for greater flexibility to fund these activities. Additional financing may not be available or not available on terms favorable to us. Liquidity Working Capital: The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital at December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017: (in thousands) 2018 2017 Increase Percentage Change Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 165,020 $ 155,615 $ 9,405 6.0 % Working capital $ 324,650 $ 212,171 $ 112,479 53.0 % As of December 29, 2018, $87.1 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding taxes if we repatriate these funds. Except for working capital requirements in certain jurisdictions, we provide for all withholding and other residual taxes related to unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. Beginning in 2018, earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions will be subject to U.S. tax in accordance with the Tax Act. Cash Flows Operating Activities: Cash provided by operating activities consists of our net loss adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities. These adjustments include depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, share-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, deferred income taxes, mark-to-market charge on the Kita contingent consideration, and amortization of inventory step-up and inventory related charges related to Xcerra. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Xcerra, our net cash flows provided by operating activities in 2018 totaled $34.4 million compared to $39.8 million in 2017. Cash provided by operating activities also was impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities which included decreases in inventories of $2.0 million, accounts receivable of $5.8 million and accounts payable of $7.1 million. Lower business volume and strict inventory management drove the decrease in our inventories. Accounts receivable decreased as a result of lower business volume in the fourth quarter and the timing of the resulting cash conversion cycle. The decrease in accounts payable resulted from lower business volume in the fourth quarter of 2018 and the timing of payments made to our suppliers. Cash provided by operating activities was also impacted by increases in income taxes payable of $2.9 million driven by taxable income generated in certain jurisdictions and accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities of $4.0 million which was driven, primarily, by accruals of incentive compensation. 32 Table of Contents Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our business, purchases of investments, proceeds from investment maturities, business acquisitions, asset disposals and business divestitures. Our net cash used in investing activities in 2018 totaled $322.3 million and included $339.1 million used for the acquisition of Xcerra, net of cash received. The acquisition of Xcerra was a strategic transaction to extend Cohus market position in the test handler and test contactor markets and expanded Cohus addressable market with our entry into the semiconductor ATE and bare board PCB tester markets. Investing activities in 2018 were also impacted by $59.5 million in net proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments offset by $38.7 million in cash used for purchases of short-term investments. We invest our excess cash, in an attempt to seek the highest available return while preserving capital, in short-term investments since excess cash may be required for a business-related purpose. Additions to property, plant and equipment in 2018 were $5.0 million and were made to support our operating and development activities and we received $1.0 million from the sale of land and fixed assets. Financing Activities: In fiscal 2018 we generated $322.1 million in cash from financing activities, primarily a result of $348.3 million of borrowings under the Term B Loan offset by $7.1 million in debt issuance costs paid. Cash flows from financing were also impacted by net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders. We issue stock options and maintain an employee stock purchase plan as components of our overall employee compensation. Issuance of common stock under our equity incentive, employee stock purchase plans and net settlement of RSU awards, resulted in a net cash usage of $9.0 million during 2018. During 2018, we paid dividends totaling $6.9 million, or $0.24 per common share. On February 12, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.06 per share on our common stock, payable on April 12, 2019, to stockholders of record as of February 26, 2019. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. During 2018, we repaid $2.3 million of term loans held by financial institutions and paid $0.8 million related to contingent consideration from the acquisition of Kita. Capital Resources In addition to the bank credit agreement which provides for a $350.0 million seven-year Term B Loan facility as described above, we have access to other credit facilities to finance our operations if needed. In connection with the acquisition of Kita on January 4, 2017, we assumed a series of revolving credit facilities with various financial institutions in Japan. The revolving credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $6.2 million. At December 29, 2018, total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $3.1 million. As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our consolidated balance sheet. We also assumed long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $4.6 million primarily related to the expansion of Kitas facility in Osaka, Japan. The loans are collateralized by the facility and land. The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.45% and expire at various dates through 2034. At December 29, 2018, $0.9 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates. We have a secured letter of credit facility (the Secured Facility) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on behalf of Cohu and our subsidiaries. The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding standby letters of credit. In addition, our wholly owned subsidiary, Xcerra, has arrangements with various financial institutions for the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees. As of December 29, 2018, $0.5 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit and bank guarantees. Our wholly owned subsidiary Ismeca Semiconductor Holdings SA (Ismeca) has an agreement with UBS (the Ismeca Facility) under which they administer lines of credit on behalf of Ismeca. Total borrowings available under the Ismeca Facility are 2.0 million Swiss Francs and at December 29, 2018, no amounts were outstanding. 33 Table of Contents We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 29, 2018, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Amounts excluded include our liability for unrecognized tax benefits that totaled approximately $34.7 million at December 29, 2018. We are currently unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount or period(s) the cash settlement of this liability may occur. Fiscal year-end (in thousands) Total 2019 2020-2021 2022-2023 Thereafter Operating leases (1) $ 39,313 $ 7,879 $ 12,655 $ 7,568 $ 11,211 Bank term loans principal and interest 476,161 23,068 44,482 43,599 365,012 Revolving credit facilities 3,115 3,115 - - - Total contractual obligations $ 518,589 $ 34,062 $ 57,137 $ 51,167 $ 376,223 (1) Includes capital lease obligations totaling $1.4 million, which were not material and therefore, did not warrant separate disclosure. The table above does not include pension, post-retirement benefit and warranty obligations because it is not certain when these liabilities will be funded. For additional information regarding our pension and post-retirement benefits obligations see Note 6, Employee Benefit Plans and for more information on our contractual obligations, see Note 11, Guarantees in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers. From time-to-time, we enter into commitments with our vendors and outsourcing partners to purchase inventory at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within relatively short time horizons. We typically do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for the next three months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit instruments to certain parties as required. As of December 29, 2018, $0.3 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit.