Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations March 26, 2016 Item. 2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute. Such forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and beliefs, including estimates and projections about our business and include, but are not limited to, statements concerning financial position, business strategy, and plans or objectives for future operations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and may cause actual results to differ materially from managements current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include those set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect managements outlook at any other point in time. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason, however, readers should carefully review the risk factors set forth in other reports or documents we file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Quarterly Report. OVERVIEW Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal sub-systems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors. Our business is significantly dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors, which in turn is dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors that is subject to cyclical trends. We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be cyclical and volatile in part because consumer electronics, the principal end market for integrated circuits, is a highly dynamic industry and demand has traditionally fluctuated. Orders for semiconductor test and assembly equipment as reported by Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) increased sequentially each month from November 2015 through January 2016 until reaching a plateau and decreasing in both February and March of 2016. Despite recent weakness in the broader market, our operating results for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 were better than expected and benefitted from demand for equipment for testing devices used in mobile, automotive and computing applications. We monitor our customers test floors and equipment utilization increased sequentially a couple of points to 81%. Looking ahead, we see momentum in the automotive and mobile markets and are optimistic about the long-term prospects for the semiconductor equipment industry due to the increasing technological functionality of mobile devices, growing integrated circuit and LED content in automobiles and consumer products, and expanding applications in industrial. We are focused on growing our market share in the mobility, automotive and solid state markets and expanding into the test contacting and wafer level package test markets. Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our critical accounting estimates that we believe are the most important to an investors understanding of our financial results and condition and require complex management judgment include: revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations; estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically product warranty, inventory reserves and allowance for bad debts, which impact gross margin or operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, which impact our tax provision; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation or amortization; and the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense. 17 Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations March 26, 2016 Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Revenue Recognition: We generally recognize revenue upon shipment and title passage for established products (i.e., those that have previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements) that provide for full payment tied to shipment. Revenue for products that have not previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements or from sales where customer payment dates are not determinable is recognized upon customer acceptance. In certain instances, customer payment terms may provide that a minority portion (e.g. up to 20%) of the equipment purchase price be paid only upon customer acceptance. In those situations, the majority portion (e.g. 80%) of revenue where the contingent payment is tied to shipment and the entire product cost of sale are recognized upon shipment and passage of title and the minority portion of the purchase price related to customer acceptance is deferred and recognized upon receipt of customer acceptance. For arrangements containing multiple elements the revenue relating to the undelivered elements is deferred using the relative selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until delivery of the deferred elements. We limit the amount of revenue recognition for delivered elements to the amount that is not contingent on the future delivery of products or services, future performance obligations or subject to customer-specified return or adjustment. On shipments where sales are not recognized, gross profit is generally recorded as deferred profit in our consolidated balance sheet, representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the inventory shipped. Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans. We record valuation reserves on our inventory for estimated excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future product demand, market conditions and product selling prices. If future product demand, market conditions or product selling prices are less than those projected by management or if continued modifications to products are required to meet specifications or other customer requirements, increases to inventory reserves may be required which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Income Taxes: We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits. Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The deferred tax assets are analyzed and reduced by a valuation allowance by jurisdiction, if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations. We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets. Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of March 26, 2016 was approximately $46.8 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $43.9 million. Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards. Segment Information : We applied the provisions of ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting , (ASC 280), which sets forth a management approach to segment reporting and establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures about products, major customers and the geographies in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue. An operating segment is defined as a component that engages in business activities whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker and for which discrete financial information is available. Based on the provisions of ASC 280, we have determined that our identified operating segments qualify for aggregation under ASC 280 due to similarities in their customers, their economic characteristics, and the nature of products and services provided. As a result, we report in one segment, semiconductor equipment. Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets: We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually on October 1st of each year and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. As a part of our annual assessment process for 2015 we performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether current events or changes in circumstances lead us to a determination that it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Under this approach, absent a qualitative determination that the fair value of our reporting unit is more likely than not to be less than its carrying value, we do not need to proceed to the traditional estimated fair value test for that asset, which would involve comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of our identified reporting unit. 18 Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations March 26, 2016 As of October 1, 2015, the results of our qualitative assessment indicated there was no impairment. Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the assets carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the assets carrying amount and estimated fair value. Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized. Our warranty obligation estimates are affected by historical product shipment levels, product performance and material and labor costs incurred in correcting product performance problems. Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Contingencies: We are subject to certain contingencies that arise in the ordinary course of our businesses which require us to assess the likelihood that future events will confirm the existence of a loss or an impairment of an asset. If a loss or asset impairment is probable and the amount of the loss or impairment is reasonably estimable, we accrue a charge to operations in the period such conditions become known. Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit. Share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1, Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In June 2015, we sold our mobile microwave communications equipment business. The operating results of this business are being presented as discontinued operations and all prior period amounts have been reclassified. Unless otherwise indicated the discussion below covers the comparative results from continuing operations. The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: Three Months Ended March 26, March 28, 2016 2015 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (70.4 )% (68.2 )% Gross margin 29.6 % 31.8 % Research and development (11.9 )% (13.5 )% Selling, general and administrative (20.3 )% (19.3 )% Loss from operations (2.6 )% (1.0 )% 19 Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations March 26, 2016 First Quarter of Fiscal 2016 Compared to First Quarter of Fiscal 2015 Net Sales Our consolidated net sales increased 3.7% to $65.8 million in 2016, compared to net sales of $63.4 million in 2015. Global demand for back-end semiconductor test and assembly equipment is highly cyclical. Sales in the first quarter of 2016 were up, slightly, from the previous year as a result of higher demand for our products resulting from the rebound in global demand for back-end equipment that began in November 2015 and continued through January 2016. Gross Margin Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of the cost of materials, assembly and test labor, and overhead from operations. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix of products sold, product support costs, inventory reserve adjustments, and utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 29.6% in 2016 from 31.8% in 2015. Gross margin in 2016, as compared to the prior year, was adversely impacted by unfavorable product mix and higher charges for excess and obsolete inventory. As highlighted above, our gross margin can be impacted by charges to cost of sales related to excess, obsolete and lower of cost or market inventory issues. We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast. During the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and 2015 we recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $0.8 million and $0.3 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively. While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at March 26, 2016, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, as a result of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our results of operations and gross margin in future periods. Research and Development Expense (R&D Expense) R&D expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in ongoing research, product design and development activities, costs of engineering materials and supplies, and professional consulting expenses. R&D expense was $7.8 million or 11.9% of net sales in 2016, compared to $8.6 million or 13.5% in 2015. T he decrease in 2016 resulted from product development programs that have concluded or are nearing completion as planned, cost control measures and a $0.6 million reduction as a result of reimbursements received under a cost-sharing arrangement with a customer entered into in the first quarter of 2016. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A Expense) SG&A expense consists primarily of salaries and benefit costs of employees, commission expense for independent sales representatives, product promotion and costs of professional services. SG&A expense was $13.4 million or 20.3% of net sales in 2016, compared to $12.3 million or 19.3% in 2015. In 2016, SG&A expense was adversely impacted by a weakening of the U.S. Dollar, which resulted in the recognition of $0.5 million in foreign currency losses. In the corresponding period of 2015, the U.S. Dollar strengthened and SG&A benefited from the recognition of $0.2 million of foreign currency gains. In the first quarter of 2016, employee share-based compensation expense was $0.4 million higher than the prior year period. This increase was driven by the number of employee restricted and performance share awards subject to vesting in the comparative periods and the corresponding valuation that was established on the date of grant and forfeiture rate adjustments recorded on award vesting. Income Taxes Ordinarily, interim tax provisions are calculated using the estimated effective tax rate (ETR) expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year. However, when a reliable estimate of the annual ETR cannot be made, the actual ETR for the year-to-date period may be the best estimate of the annual ETR. For the three months ended March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015, we used the actual year-to-date ETR in computing our tax provision, as a reliable estimate of the annual ETR cannot be made, since relatively small changes in our projected income produce a significant variation in our ETR. The actual year-to-date ETR on loss from continuing operations for the three months ended March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015 , was (13.1)% and (150.7)%, respectively. The tax provision on loss from continuing operations in 2016 and 2015 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the lack of a benefit on our domestic losses as a result of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at lower rates, changes in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance, state taxes and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits. 20 Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations March 26, 2016 Other than for foreign currency exchange rate changes, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the three month periods ended March 26, 2016 and March 28, 2015. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income As a result of the factors set forth above, our loss from continuing operations and net loss was $1.9 million in 2016. In 2015 our loss from continuing operations was $1.7 million and including the results of our discontinued mobile microwave communication equipment business our net loss was $2.7 million. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The cyclical and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. As of March 26, 2016, $69.7 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes if we repatriate these funds. Except for certain geographic locations where we have curtailed operations and from which repatriation would not result in incremental U.S. or foreign withholding tax, our intent is to indefinitely reinvest these funds in our foreign operations and we have no current plans that would require us to repatriate these funds to the U.S. Liquidity Working Capital: The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital: March 26, December 26, Percentage (in thousands) 2016 2015 Decrease Change Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 114,521 $ 117,022 $ (2,501 ) (2.1 )% Working capital $ 170,946 $ 171,272 $ (326 ) (0.2 )% Cash Flows Operating Activities: Operating cash flows for the first three months of fiscal 2016 consist of our net loss, adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities. These adjustments include depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, share-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets and deferred income taxes. Our net cash used in operating activities in the first three months of fiscal 2016 totaled $1.5 million. Cash used in operating activities was impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities and included increases in accounts receivable of $5.3 million, inventory of $2.5 million other current assets of $1.9 million, accounts payable of $5.1 million and deferred profit of $1.8 million. Accounts receivable increased from a sequential increase in product shipments and the timing of the resulting cash conversion cycle. Material purchases made to fulfill customer orders for equipment expected to ship in future quarters led to an increase in our inventory balance and accounts payable increased as a result of the timing of cash payments made to our suppliers and vendors. Other current assets increased as a result of prepayments of certain expenses and the increase in deferred profit resulted from deferral of certain sales in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. Accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities decreased $1.4 million as a result of the payment of incentive compensation during the first quarter of 2016 that was accrued during fiscal 2015. Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our businesses, proceeds from investment maturities, asset disposals and divestitures and cash used for purchases of investments and business acquisitions. Net cash used in investing activities in the first three months of fiscal 2016 totaled $8.0 million and was primarily the result of $8.9 million in cash used for purchases of short-term investments offset by $1.0 million in net proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. We invest our excess cash, in an attempt to seek the highest available return while preserving capital, in short-term investments since excess cash is only temporarily available and may be required for a business related purpose. Additions to property, plant and equipment of $0.9 million were made to support the operating and development activities of our business. Proceeds from the sale of assets totaled $0.8 million and resulted from the sale of a facility located in Chandler, Arizona that we no longer utilized. 21 Cohu, Inc. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations March 26, 2016 Financing Activities: Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders. We issue stock options and maintain an employee stock purchase plan as components of our overall employee compensation. In the first three months of fiscal 2016, we used cash totaling $0.4 million to repurchase common stock to settle the minimum statutory tax withholding requirements paid by us on behalf of our employees upon vesting of restricted stock awards. At March 26, 2016 we had an additional $1.7 million accrued for tax withholding to be paid by us for restricted stock awards that vested at the end of the first quarter. We paid dividends totaling $1.6 million, or $0.06 per common share. On April 26, 2016, Cohu's Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share payable on July 29, 2016, to shareholders of record on June 17, 2016. Future quarterly dividends are subject to our cash liquidity, capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Capital Resources We have a secured letter of credit facility (the Secured Facility) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf. The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit. As of March 26, 2016, we had approximately $26,000 of standby letters of credit outstanding under the Secured Facility. We also have credit agreements with multiple financial institutions under which they administer lines of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary. The agreements provide Ismeca with 2.5 million Swiss Francs of available credit and at March 26, 2016, no amounts were outstanding. We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Contractual Obligations: Our significant contractual obligations consist of liabilities for operating leases, unrecognized tax benefits, pensions, post-retirement benefits and warranties. These obligations have not changed materially from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 26, 2015. Purchase Commitments: From time to time, we enter into commitments with our vendors and outsourcing partners to purchase inventory at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within relatively short time horizons. We typically do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for the next three months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit instruments to certain parties as required. As of March 26, 2016, the maximum potential amount of future payments that we could be required to make under these standby letters of credit was $26,000. No liability has been recorded in connection with these arrangements beyond those required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed. We do not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these arrangements. 22