Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 12 In addition, in October 2015, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) issued its reports on the 15 focus areas identified in its Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS). Some BEPS measures will require treaty based or legislative action by countries. The final impact of BEPS on Cohus income tax provision and liability is currently not quantifiable and is likely to result in additional recordkeeping and administrative cost to implement certain of its requirements. Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs. Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations. Compliance with complex U.S. and other foreign country laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, the U.S. State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) and U.S. and other foreign country laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Further, defending against claims of violations of these laws and regulations, even if we are successful, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert managements attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. In addition to government regulations regarding sale and export, we are subject to other regulations regarding our products. For example, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements if the materials come from, or could have come from, the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. These new rules and verification requirements will impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the cost of materials used in our products. Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers that could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. There may be changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and governmental policy in the United States. The change in administration in the United States has resulted and may continue to result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such additional changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could impact fuel cell market adoption in the U.S. and the alternative energy technologies sector in the U.S., generally. Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. These attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. In addition, we may be required to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. Our implementation of enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. We recently implemented a new ERP system within our Switzerland and Malaysia operations, to conform these operations to the same ERP system used within our other principal business locations. We intend to continue to make investments and upgrades to our global ERP systems to support our business requirements. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities. If we do not effectively implement the ERP system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect our financial reporting systems and our ability to produce financial reports and process transactions, the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The occurrence of natural disasters and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and other threats may adversely impact our operations and sales. Our Corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California, our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia. In addition, we have manufacturing plants in Malaysia, Philippines and Japan. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires and floods, and geopolitical risks, which at times have disrupted the local economies. For example, a significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results. We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, or for geopolitical or terrorism impacts, and presently have limited redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a disaster. In the event of such disaster, our business would materially suffer. 13 Our financial and operating results may vary and fall below analysts estimates, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to: seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of the semiconductor equipment industry; timing and amount of orders from customers and shipments to customers; inability to recognize revenue due to accounting requirements; inventory writedowns; unexpected expenses or cost overruns in the introduction and support of products; inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers; and intangible and deferred tax asset writedowns. Due to these factors or other unanticipated events, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be reliable indicators of our future performance. In addition, from time-to-time our quarterly financial results may fall below the expectations of the securities and industry analysts who publish reports on our company or of investors in general. This could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. We have experienced significant volatility in our stock price. A variety of factors may cause the price of our stock to be volatile. The stock market in general, and the market for shares of high-technology companies in particular, including ours, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. During the three-year period ended December 30, 2017, the price of our common stock has ranged from $26.17 to $9.14. The price of our stock may be more volatile than the stock of other companies due to, among other factors, the unpredictable, volatile and seasonal nature of the semiconductor industry, our significant customer concentration, intense competition in the test handler industry, our limited backlog and our relatively low daily stock trading volume. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, including fluctuations related and unrelated to our performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. Certain information concerning our principal properties at December 30, 2017, is set forth below: Approximate Locatio n Sq. Footag e Ownershi p Poway, California (1 ) 147,000 Leased Kolbermoor, German y 40,000 Owne d Malacca, Malaysi a 84,000 Lease d Calamba City, Laguna, Philippine s 51,000 Lease d La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerlan d 34,000 Lease d Osaka, Japa n 67,000 Owne d (1) Cohu Corporate offices. In addition to the locations listed above, we lease other properties primarily for sales and service offices in various locations. We believe our facilities are suitable for their respective uses and are adequate for our present needs. 14 Item 3. Legal Proceedings. From time-to-time we are involved in various legal proceedings, examinations by various tax and custom authorities and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of our business. The outcome of any litigation, examinations and claims is inherently uncertain. While there can be no assurance, at the present time we do not believe that the resolution of the matters described above will have a material adverse effect on our assets, financial position or results of operations. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 15 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. (a) Market Information Cohu, Inc. stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "COHU". The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market during the last two years. Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2016 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 17.83 $ 12.64 $ 12.93 $ 10.87 Second Quarter $ 21.64 $ 16.30 $ 12.60 $ 10.49 Third Quarter $ 23.88 $ 15.55 $ 12.00 $ 10.01 Fourth Quarter $ 26.17 $ 20.30 $ 14.43 $ 10.72 Holders At February 16, 2018, Cohu had 412 stockholders of record. Dividends We have paid consecutive quarterly dividends since 1977 and, as discussed below, expect to continue doing so. Cash dividends, per share, declared in 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2016 First Quarter $ 0.06 $ 0.06 Second Quarter $ 0.06 $ 0.06 Third Quarter $ 0.06 $ 0.06 Fourth Quarter $ 0.06 $ 0.06 Total $ 0.24 $ 0.24 We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Our dividend policy may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to research and development, investments and acquisitions, legal risks and stock repurchases. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table summarizes information with respect to equity awards under Cohu s equity compensation plans at December 30, 2017 (in thousands, except per share amounts) : Number of securities Weighted average Number of securities to be issued upon exercise price of available for future issuance exercise of outstanding outstanding options, under equity compensation options, warrants and warrants and rights plans (excluding securities Plan category rights (a) (1) (b) (2) reflected in column (a))(c) (3) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 1,787 $ 10.20 2,104 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders - - - 1,787 $ 10.20 2,104 (1) Includes options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance stock units (PSUs) outstanding under Cohu s equity incentive plans. No stock warrants or other rights were outstanding as of December 30, 2017. (2) The weighted average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights does not take RSUs and PSUs into account as RSUs and PSUs have a de minimus purchase price. (3) Includes 601,340 shares of common stock reserved for future issuance under the Cohu 1997 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. For further details regarding Cohu s equity compensation plans, see Note 6, Employee Benefit Plans, included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. 16 Comparative Stock Performance Graph The information contained in this Stock Performance Graph section shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or filed with the SEC or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act except to the extent that Cohu specifically incorporates it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on the common stock of Cohu for the last five fiscal years with the cumulative total return on custom Peer Group Indexes and a NASDAQ Market Index over the same period (assuming the investment of $100 in Cohu s common stock, Peer Group Index and NASDAQ Market Index on December 29, 2012 and reinvestment of all dividends). The custom Peer Group Index is comprised of the peer group companies associated with our performance stock units issued under our equity incentive plan. In 2017, the custom Peer Group Index was comprised of Advanced Energy Industries Inc., Advantest Corp, ASM Pacific Technology Ltd, Axcelis Technologies Inc., BE Semiconductor Industries NV, Brooks Automation Inc., Cabot Microelectronics Corp, Camtek Ltd, Electro Scientific Industries Inc., FormFactor Inc., Kulicke and Soffa Industries Inc., Micronics Japan Co Ltd, MKS Instruments Inc., Nanometrics Inc., Photronics Inc., Rudolph Technologies Inc., Teradyne Inc., Ultra Clean Holdings Inc., Veeco Instruments Inc.(includes Ultratech through acquisition) and Xcerra Corp. This peer group is revised annually to reflect acquisitions and to include additional equivalent companies in the semiconductor equipment market to ensure a sufficiently large number of companies in the peer group composition to enable a meaningful comparison of our stock performance. As it relates to our 2017 Peer Group Index, the only change from peer group companies used in 2016 resulted from Veeco Instruments Inc.s acquisition of Ultratech, Inc. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Cohu, Inc. $ 100 $ 100 $ 121 $ 133 $ 146 $ 234 NASDAQ Index $ 100 $ 142 $ 162 $ 173 $ 187 $ 242 Peer Group $ 100 $ 119 $ 133 $ 120 $ 168 $ 260 17 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Cohu s consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part IV, Item 15(a) and with managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included in Part II, Item 7. In June 2015, we sold our mobile microwave communications equipment business and in June 2014, we sold our video camera business. The operating results of these businesses are being presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Additional information related to the sale of our mobile microwave communications equipment business is included in Note 11, Discontinued Operations in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. Years Ended, Dec. 30 Dec. 31 Dec. 26 Dec. 27 Dec. 28 (in thousands, except per share data) 2017 (1) 2016 (3) 2015 2014 2013 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net sales $ 352,704 $ 282,084 $ 269,654 $ 316,629 $ 214,511 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 33,121 (2) $ 3,260 $ 5,792 (4) $ 14,780 $ (28,548 ) Net income (loss) $ 32,843 (2) $ 3,039 $ 250 $ 8,708 $ (33,418 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations - basic $ 1.19 $ 0.12 $ 0.22 $ 0.58 $ (1.15 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations - diluted $ 1.15 $ 0.12 $ 0.22 $ 0.57 $ (1.15 ) Net income (loss) - basic $ 1.18 $ 0.11 $ 0.01 $ 0.34 $ (1.34 ) Net income (loss) - diluted $ 1.14 $ 0.11 $ 0.01 $ 0.33 $ (1.34 ) Cash dividends per share, paid quarterly $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total Consolidated Assets $ 420,457 $ 345,512 $ 345,346 $ 344,765 $ 345,423 Working Capital $ 212,171 $ 176,460 $ 171,272 $ 142,194 $ 125,837 (1) On January 4, 2017, we purchased Kita and the results of its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since that date. (2) Results for the year ended December 30, 2017, include the impact from the Tax Act. See Note 5, Income Taxes in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K for additional information. (3) The year ended December 31, 2016 consists of 53 weeks. All other years in the table above are comprised of 52 weeks. (4) Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 26, 2015, includes a gain on the sale of facility totaling $3.2 million. Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. OVERVIEW Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors. Our business is significantly dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors, which in turn is dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors that is subject to seasonal trends. We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be seasonal in part because consumer electronics, automotive and mobility, the principal end markets for integrated circuits, are highly dynamic industries and demand has traditionally fluctuated with global consumer spending. In light of these conditions, our results can vary significantly year-over-year. For the year ended December 30, 2017, our orders increased 41% compared to 2016 and, as a result, our net sales were up 25% year-over-year to $352.7 million. The increase in sales were driven by market share gains for semiconductor test handlers used for testing devices used in automotive, mobility and IoT (Internet of Things) markets and growth in the test contactor market. Customer test cell utilization remains strong and long-term, we continue to see momentum in the automotive, mobility and industrial markets and are optimistic about the prospects for our business due to the increasing ubiquity of semiconductors, the diminishing impact of parallel test, increasing semiconductor complexity and increasing quality demands from semiconductor customers. We are focused on growing our market share in the semiconductor test handling and test contactor markets, and expanding into the semiconductor inspection market. 18 Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our critical accounting estimates that we believe are the most important to investors understanding of our financial results and condition and require complex management judgment include: revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers , which impacts our results of operations; estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically product warranty, inventory reserves and allowance for bad debts, which impact gross margin or operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits , the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets and accounting for the impact of the recent change to U.S. tax law as described herein, which impact our tax provision; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation; and the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Revenue Recognition: We generally recognize revenue upon shipment and title passage for established products (i.e., those that have previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements) that provide for full payment tied to shipment. Revenue for products that have not previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements or from sales where customer payment dates are not determinable is recognized upon customer acceptance. In certain instances, customer payment terms may provide that a minority portion (e.g. up to 20%) of the equipment purchase price be paid only upon customer acceptance. In those situations, the majority portion (e.g. 80%) of revenue where the contingent payment is tied to shipment and the entire product cost of sale are recognized upon shipment and passage of title and the minority portion of the purchase price related to customer acceptance is deferred and recognized upon receipt of customer acceptance. For arrangements containing multiple elements the revenue relating to the undelivered elements is deferred using the relative selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until delivery of the deferred elements. We limit the amount of revenue recognition for delivered elements to the amount that is not contingent on the future delivery of products or services, future performance obligations or subject to customer-specified return or adjustment. On shipments where sales are not recognized, gross profit is generally recorded as deferred profit in our consolidated balance sheet, representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the inventory shipped. On December 31, 2017, the first day of our fiscal 2018, we will adopt ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. For additional information on the impact this new standard will have on our revenue recognition in the future see recently issued accounting pronouncements in Note 1 Accounting Policies in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. 19 Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans. We record valuation reserves on our inventory for estimated excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or net realizable value concerns equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated realizable value based upon assumptions about future product demand, market conditions and product selling prices. If future product demand, market conditions or product selling prices are less than those projected by management or if continued modifications to products are required to meet specifications or other customer requirements, increases to inventory reserves may be required which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Income Taxes: The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 30, 2017, as provided for in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118). As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. The accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act will be completed in 2018. We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits. Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations. We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets. Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of December 30, 2017 was approximately $37.7 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $31.5 million. Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carry-forwards. Segment Information: We applied the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 280, Segment Reporting , (ASC 280), which sets forth a management approach to segment reporting and establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures about products, major customers and the geographies in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue. An operating segment is defined as a component that engages in business activities whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker and for which discrete financial information is available. Based on the provisions of ASC 280, we have determined that our identified operating segments, which are Digital Test Handlers (DTH), Analog Test Handlers (ATH) and Integrated Test Solutions (ITS), qualify for aggregation under ASC 280 due to similarities in their customers, their economic characteristics, and the nature of products and services provided. As a result, we report in one segment, semiconductor equipment. Goodwill, Purchased Intangible Assets and Other Long-lived Assets: We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on customer forecasts, industry trade organization data and general economic conditions. 20 We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there is no impairment as of October 1, 2017 as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date. Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates. As of December 30, 2017, we do not believe there have been any events or circumstances that would require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment review. In the event we determine that an interim goodwill impairment review is required, in a future period, the review may result in an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized. Our warranty obligation estimates are affected by historical product shipment levels, product performance and material and labor costs incurred in correcting product performance problems. Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Contingencies: We are subject to certain contingencies that arise in the ordinary course of our businesses which require us to assess the likelihood that future events will confirm the existence of a loss or an impairment of an asset. If a loss or asset impairment is probable and the amount of the loss or impairment is reasonably estimable, we accrue a charge to operations in the period such conditions become known. Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit. Share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant. Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 1, Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. 21 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Recent Transactions Impacting Results of Operations On January 4, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Kita and the results of its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since that date. In June 2015, we sold our mobile microwave communications equipment business and the operating results of this business and subsequent adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration have been presented as discontinued operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussion below covers the comparative results from continuing operations. The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (60.1 ) (66.4 ) (67.0 ) Gross margin 39.9 33.6 33.0 Research and development (11.5 ) (12.4 ) (12.3 ) Selling, general and administrative (18.5 ) (19.3 ) (19.0 ) Gain on sale of facility - - 1.2 Income from operations 9.9 % 1.9 % 2.9 % 2017 Compared to 2016 Net Sales Cohu s consolidated net sales increased 25.0% from $282.1 million in 2016 to $352.7 million in 2017. Consolidated net sales in 2017 were up significantly as a result of the improved business conditions within the semiconductor industry and our success in growing share in the test handler and test contactor markets. Our increased sales in 2017 were driven by demand for equipment to test semiconductor devices used in automotive, mobility and IoT markets. Consolidated net sales in 2017 also include Kita, which was acquired on January 4, 2017. Kitas net sales for 2017 were $19.2 million. Gross Margin Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of the materials, assembly and test labor and overhead from operations. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix of products sold, product support costs, increase to inventory reserves or the sale of previously reserved inventory and utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 39.9% in 2017 from 33.6% in 2016. G ross margin improved in 2017 due to favorable product mix, lower manufacturing costs as a result of our transition of volume handler manufacturing from the U.S. and Europe to Asia, as well as a significant increase in business volume which enabled us to better leverage our fixed costs. In 2017 our gross margin benefitted by $2.5 million from lower intangible asset amortization primarily due to certain assets being fully amortized in 2016 offset, in part, by the amortization of $1.4 million related to the purchase accounting inventory step-up adjustment recorded in connection with our acquisition of Kita. We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast. During both 2017 and 2016, we recorded net charges to cost of sales of approximately $1.1 million, for excess and obsolete inventory. While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at December 30, 2017, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, as a result of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our gross margin in future periods. Research and Development Expense (R&D Expense) R&D expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in ongoing research, product design and development activities, costs of engineering materials and supplies and professional consulting expenses. Our future operating results depend, to a considerable extent, on our ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the products we provide, and historically we have maintained our commitment to investing in R&D in order to be able to continue to offer new products to our customers. R&D expense in 2017 was $40.7 million, or 11.5% of net sales, increasing from $34.8 million, or 12.4% of net sales in 2016. New product development programs resulted in higher R&D labor and material expense in 2017 which was offset, in part, by $1.1 million of development cost reimbursements received under a cost-sharing arrangement. During 2016, we received cost reimbursements totaling $1.6 million under the same agreement which was executed in the first quarter of 2016. 22 Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A Expense) SG&A expense consists primarily of salaries and benefit costs of employees, commission expense for independent sales representatives, product promotion and costs of professional services. As a result of increased business volume in 2017, SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales decreased to 18.5% of net sales in 2017, from 19.3% in 2016, while increasing in absolute dollars from $54.3 million in 2016 to $65.2 million in 2017. SG&A expense in 2017 was negatively affected by the strengthening of the Swiss Franc and Euro against the U.S. Dollar, which resulted in the recognition of $3.0 million in foreign currency transaction losses for the year. In 2016, SG&A expense benefitted from the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, which resulted in the recognition of $2.6 million in foreign currency transaction gains for the year. Manufacturing transition and employee severance costs were $1.0 million lower in 2017 as a result of the successful transition of certain volume handler manufacturing to Asia during 2016. Costs incurred specifically related to completing the acquisition of Kita in 2017 totaled $0.4 million and we recorded $1.4 million of expense related to mark-to-market adjustments made to the fair value of the Kita contingent consideration liability. In 2016, costs incurred specifically related to completing the acquisition of Kita totaled $1.8 million. Kitas SG&A expense in 2017 was $5.5 million. In 2017 and 2016, we recorded $1.2 million and $0.6 million of expense, respectively, related to a reduction of an indemnification receivable related to an uncertain tax position recorded in the Ismeca acquisition. In connection with this reduction we also booked a corresponding amount as a credit to our income tax provision and, as a result, the impact of this reduction on net income was zero. Income Taxes The Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017, and introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law. Effective in 2018, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21% and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings and certain related-party payments, which are referred to as the global intangible low-taxed income tax and the base erosion and anti-abuse tax, respectively. In addition, in 2017 we were subject to a one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Act. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 30, 2017. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact the provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. The accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act will be completed in 2018. The income tax provision expressed as a percentage of pre-tax income in 2017 and 2016 was 6.3% and 45.7%, respectively. The income tax provision for the years ended December 30, 2017, and December 31, 2016, differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the impact of the Tax Act, releases from statute expirations, non-deductible transaction costs, tax credits, stock compensation, changes in the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates and other factors. Companies are required to assess whether a valuation allowance should be recorded against their deferred tax assets (DTAs) based on the consideration of all available evidence, using a more likely than not realization standard. The four sources of taxable income that must be considered in determining whether DTAs will be realized are, (1) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences (i.e. offset of gross deferred tax assets against gross deferred tax liabilities); (2) taxable income in prior carryback years, if carryback is permitted under the tax law; (3) tax planning strategies and (4) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards. In assessing whether a valuation allowance is required, significant weight is to be given to evidence that can be objectively verified. We have evaluated our DTAs each reporting period, including an assessment of our cumulative income or loss over the prior three-year period and future periods, to determine if a valuation allowance was required. A significant negative factor in our assessment was Cohu's three-year cumulative U.S. loss history at the end of various fiscal periods including 2017. As a result of our cumulative, three-year U.S. GAAP pretax loss from continuing operations at the end of 2017, we were unable to conclude at December 30, 2017 that it was more likely than not that our U.S. DTAs would be realized. We will evaluate the realizability of our DTAs at the end of each quarterly reporting period in 2018 and, should circumstances change, it is possible the remaining valuation allowance, or a portion thereof, will be reversed in a future period. 23 Our valuation allowance on our DTAs at December 30, 2017, and December 31, 2016, was approximately $31.5 million and $44.7 million, respectively. The remaining gross DTAs for which a valuation allowance was not recorded are realizable primarily through future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. As the realization of DTAs is determined by tax jurisdiction, the deferred tax liabilities recorded as part of the 2008 acquisition of Rasco, a German corporation, the fiscal 2013 acquisition of Ismeca, a Swiss Corporation, and the fiscal 2017 acquisition of Kita Japan, a Japanese company were not a source of taxable income in assessing the realization of our DTAs in the U.S. For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate and further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 5, Income Taxes, included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations was $33.1 million in 2017, compared to $3.3 million in 2016. Including the results of our discontinued operations, our net income in 2017 and 2016 was $32.8 million and $3.0 million, respectively. 2016 Compared to 2015 Net Sales Cohu s consolidated net sales increased 4.6% from $269.7 million in 2015 to $282.1 million in 2016. Our consolidated net sales in 2016 were up from 2015 and reflected improved business conditions in the semiconductor industry and demand for equipment for testing devices used in mobile, automotive and computing applications. Gross Margin Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 33.6% in 2016 from 33.0% in 2015. During 2016 and 2015, we recorded net charges to cost of sales of approximately $1.1 million and $2.4 million, respectively, for excess and obsolete inventory. R&D Expense R&D expense in 2016 was $34.8 million, or 12.4% of net sales, increasing from $33.1 million, or 12.3% of net sales in 2015. New product development programs resulted in higher R&D labor and material expense being incurred in 2016. These increased costs were partially offset by $1.6 million of development cost reimbursements received under a cost-sharing arrangement entered into with a customer in the first quarter of 2016. SG&A Expense SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales increased to 19.3% in 2016, from 19.0% in 2015, increasing from $51.2 million in 2015 to $54.3 million in 2016. Our SG&A expense in 2016 was higher as a result of increased business volume, and during the year we incurred $1.8 million of costs associated with our acquisition of Kita. SG&A expense in 2016 also includes $0.6 million of expense related to a reduction of an indemnification receivable related to an uncertain tax position recorded in the Ismeca acquisition. In connection with this reduction we also booked a corresponding amount as a credit to our income tax provision and, as a result, the impact of this reduction on net income was zero. Employee share based compensation expense was $0.4 million higher in 2016, driven primarily by the number of employee stock options and restricted and performance share awards subject to vesting during the period and the corresponding valuation that was established on the date of grant. Costs incurred in connection with transitioning our manufacturing to Asia and employee severance were $1.4 million and $1.0 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Over these two years our SG&A expense has benefitted from the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, which resulted in the recognition of $2.6 million and $1.4 million in foreign currency transaction gains in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Gain on Sale of Facility On December 4, 2015, we completed the sale of our headquarters facility located in Poway, California for $34.1 million. After payment of commissions and other fees associated with the sale we realized net cash proceeds of $33.3 million, which resulted in a total gain of $18.5 million. We accounted for this transaction in accordance with ASC subtopic 840-40, Sale-leaseback transactions , and recognized a gain on the completion of the sale totaling $3.2 million. The portion of the gain not recognized at the time the sale was completed has been deferred and is being recognized on a straight-line basis over the 10-year term of the lease in line with the recognition of rental expense related to the lease. During 2016, we amortized $2.0 million of the deferred gain to income. 24 Income Taxes The income tax provision expressed as a percentage of pre-tax income in 2016 and 2015 was 45.7% and 27.6%, respectively. The income tax provision for the years ended December 31, 2016, and December 26, 2015, differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to releases from statute expirations, non-deductible transaction costs, tax credits, stock compensation, changes in the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates and other factors. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations was $3.3 million in 2016, compared to $5.8 million in 2015. Including the results of our discontinued operations, our net income in 2016 was $3.0 million as compared to $0.3 million in 2015. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The seasonal and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our business to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. We believe that our sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements through at least the next 12 months. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by a decrease in demand for our products. In addition, we may make acquisitions or increase our capital expenditures and may need to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing to provide for greater flexibility to fund these activities. Additional financing may not be available or not available on terms favorable to us. Liquidity Working Capital: The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital at December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016: (in thousands) 2017 2016 Increase Percentage Change Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 155,615 $ 128,035 $ 27,580 21.5 % Working capital $ 212,171 $ 176,460 $ 35,711 20.2 % As of December 30, 2017, $86.3 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay foreign withholding taxes if we repatriate these funds. In 2017 we accrued $2.0 million of foreign withholding tax that would be payable in the event we repatriate funds from certain of our foreign subsidiaries. Beginning in 2018, earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions will be subject to U.S. tax in accordance with the Tax Act. Cash Flows Operating Activities: Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities. These adjustments include depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, share-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, deferred income taxes, mark-to-market charge on the Kita contingent consideration, amortization of inventory step-up and the loss from our divestiture of BMS. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Kita, our net cash flows provided by operating activities in 2017 totaled $39.8 million compared to $24.5 million in 2016. Cash provided by operating activities also was impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities which included increases in inventories of $12.2 million, accounts receivable of $3.3 million, and accounts payable of $4.2 million. Material purchases made in advance of product shipments scheduled to occur in the first quarter of 2018 resulted in an increase in our inventories. Accounts receivable increased as a result increased business volume and the timing of the resulting cash conversion cycle. The increase in accounts payable resulted from increased business volume in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the timing of payments made to our suppliers. 25 Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our business, purchases of investments, proceeds from investment maturities, business acquisitions, asset disposals and business divestitures. Our net cash used in investing activities in 2017 totaled $7.0 million and included $11.7 million used for the acquisition of Kita. The acquisition of Kita was a strategic transaction to expand our total available market, extend our market leadership and broaden our product offerings. Investing activities in 2017 were also impacted by $37.0 million in cash used for purchases of short-term investments offset by $47.7 million in net proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments. We invest our excess cash, in an attempt to seek the highest available return while preserving capital, in short-term investments since excess cash may be required for a business-related purpose. Additions to property, plant and equipment in 2017 were $6.1 million and were made to support our operating and development activities. Financing Activities: Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders. We issue stock options and maintain an employee stock purchase plan as components of our overall employee compensation. Net proceeds from the issuance of our common stock under our equity incentive and employee stock purchase plans, totaled $10.4 million during 2017. During 2017, we paid dividends totaling $6.6 million, or $0.24 per common share. On February 15, 2018, we announced a cash dividend of $0.06 per share on our common stock, payable on April 13, 2018, to stockholders of record as of February 27, 2018. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. During 2017, we repaid $1.6 million of term loans held by financial institutions. Capital Resources In connection with the acquisition of Kita on January 4, 2017, we assumed a series of revolving credit facilities with various financial institutions in Japan. The revolving credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $6.2 million. At December 30, 2017, total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $3.1 million. As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our consolidated balance sheet. We also assumed long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $5.9 million primarily related to the expansion of Kitas facility in Osaka, Japan. The loans are collateralized by the facility and land. The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.45% and expire at various dates through 2034. At December 30, 2017, $1.3 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet. The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates. We have a secured letter of credit facility (the Secured Facility) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on behalf of Cohu and our subsidiaries. The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding standby letters of credit. As of December 30, 2017, no amounts were outstanding under standby letters of credit. Our wholly owned subsidiary Ismeca Semiconductor Holdings SA (Ismeca) has an agreement with UBS (the Ismeca Facility) under which they administer a line of credit on behalf of Ismeca. Total borrowings available under the Ismeca Facility are 2.0 million Swiss Francs and at December 30, 2017, no amounts were outstanding. We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. 26 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 30, 2017, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our balance sheet as current liabilities at December 30, 2017. Amounts excluded include our liability for unrecognized tax benefits that totaled approximately $10.3 million at December 30, 2017. We are currently unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount or period(s) the cash settlement of this liability may occur. (in thousands) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Total Non-cancelable operating leases $ 3,280 $ 2,930 $ 2,664 $ 2,636 $ 2,687 $ 7,264 $ 21,461 The table above does not include pension, post-retirement benefit and warranty obligations because it is not certain when these liabilities will be funded. For additional information regarding our pension and post-retirement benefits obligations see Note 6, Employee Benefit Plans and for more information on our contractual obligations, see Note 9, Guarantees in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. In addition to the lease commitments disclosed above, our contractual obligations also include Kita s outstanding borrowings of $9.0 million at December 30, 2017, of which approximately $1.3 million will be due in 2018, $1.2 million will be due in 2019, $1.0 million will be due in 2020, $1.1 million will be due in 2021, $0.8 million will be due in 2022 and $3.6 million will be due thereafter. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers. From time-to-time, we enter into commitments with our vendors and outsourcing partners to purchase inventory at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within relatively short time horizons. We typically do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for the next three months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit instruments to certain parties as required. As of December 30, 2017, no amounts were outstanding under standby letters of credit.