managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, included in Part II, Item 7. In June 2014, we completed the sale of Cohu Electronics and as a result we are presenting Cohu Electronics as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. Additional information related to the sale of Cohu Electronics is included in Note 2, Disposal of Video Camera Segment in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. On December 31, 2012, we purchased Ismeca and the results of its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since that date. Years Ended, (in thousands, except per share data) Dec. 27 2014 (1) Dec. 28 2013 Dec. 29 2012 Dec. 31 2011 (2) Dec. 25 2010 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net sales $ 333,323 $ 231,574 $ 206,312 $ 290,615 $ 305,271 Income (loss) from continuing operations $ 5,835 $ (34,260 ) $ (12,122 ) $ 15,203 $ 24,285 Net income (loss) $ 8,708 $ (33,418 ) $ (12,243 ) $ 15,719 $ 24,644 Income (loss) from continuing operations - basic $ 0.23 $ (1.37 ) $ (0.50 ) $ 0.63 $ 1.23 Income (loss) from continuing operations - diluted $ 0.22 $ (1.37 ) $ (0.50 ) $ 0.62 $ 1.01 Net income (loss) - basic $ 0.34 $ (1.34 ) $ (0.50 ) $ 0.65 $ 1.04 Net income (loss) - diluted $ 0.33 $ (1.34 ) $ (0.50 ) $ 0.64 $ 1.02 Cash dividends per share, paid quarterly $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 $ 0.24 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total Consolidated Assets $ 348,818 $ 345,423 $ 334,873 $ 350,010 $ 354,951 Working Capital $ 145,264 $ 125,837 $ 184,703 $ 183,283 $ 160,336 (1) Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 27, 2014 includes an impairment charge of $5.0 million. Additional information can be found in Note 3, Microwave Communications Equipment Segment Impairment and Restructuring in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. (2) The year ended December 31, 2011 consists of 53 weeks. All other years are comprised of 52 weeks. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. OVERVIEW Cohu operates in two business segments. Our primary business is the development, manufacture, sale and servicing of test handling, thermal sub-systems and MEMS test solutions for the global semiconductor industry through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Delta Design, Inc., Rasco GmbH and Ismeca Semiconductor Holding SA. Our primary business is significantly dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors, which in turn is dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors that is subject to cyclical trends and, as a result, our results can vary significantly year-over-year, as well as quarter-over-quarter. We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be cyclical and volatile in part because consumer electronics, the principal end market for integrated circuits, is a highly dynamic industry and demand is difficult to accurately predict as it is ultimately driven by end-user demand for electronic products. Average orders for back-end semiconductor equipment, as reported by Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI), increased steadily through the first half of the year reaching a peak in June and have decreased during the second half of 2014. Consistent with the broader market, the order momentum within our semiconductor equipment segment that started toward the end of fiscal 2013 maintained an upward trend through the first half of 2014 and then declined in the second half of 2014 with orders generated by our semiconductor equipment segment decreasing approximately 32% sequentially in the fourth quarter of 2014 as customers digest the significant capacity additions from recent quarters and a large customer order was delayed into the first quarter of 2015. Additionally, we see a seasonal trend to the order demand for certain markets such as automotive and industrial integrated circuits that slow down during the winter months. Despite the drop in order activity, we continue to experience broad demand across our product lines and customer base with our pick and place and gravity handlers benefiting in particular from continued demand from the automotive and industrial segments. Demand for our thermal subsystems is being driven by the continuing 18 Table of Contents popularity of consumer products, including tablets and smartphones and the sustained improvement in the results within our turret business are being driven largely by the consumer, mobility and solid state lighting markets. We continue to be optimistic about the long-term prospects for the semiconductor equipment industry due to the increasing technological functionality of mobile devices, growing integrated circuit content in automotive, consumer and industrial applications, and the projected adoption of high brightness LEDs in general lighting. Our microwave communications equipment segment comprised approximately 8% of our consolidated revenues during the three-year period ended December 27, 2014 and were approximately 5% for the year ended December 27, 2014. Our microwave communications equipment segment develops, manufactures and sells mobile microwave communications equipment, antenna systems and associated equipment. These products are used in the transmission of video, audio and telemetry data. Applications for these microwave data-links include unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), public safety, security, surveillance, electronic news gathering and live broadcast television. Customers for these products are government agencies, public safety organizations, UAV program contractors, television broadcasters and other commercial entities. During the fourth quarter of 2014, we determined that the fair market value of our microwave communications reporting unit goodwill was lower than its carrying value and, as a result, we recorded a non-cash, pre-tax impairment charge of $5.0 million, comprised of $3.1 million of goodwill, and $1.9 million other assets. Additional information is included in Note 3, Microwave Communications Equipment Segment Impairment and Restructuring in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our critical accounting estimates that we believe are the most important to an investors understanding of our financial results and condition and require complex management judgment include: revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations; estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically product warranty, inventory reserves and allowance for bad debts, which impact gross margin or operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, which impact our tax provision; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation; and the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Revenue Recognition: We generally recognize revenue upon shipment and title passage for established products (i.e., those that have previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements) that provide for full payment tied to shipment. Revenue for products that have not previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements or from sales where customer payment dates are not determinable is recognized upon customer acceptance. In certain instances, customer payment terms may provide that a minority portion (e.g. 20%) of the equipment purchase price be paid only upon customer acceptance. In those situations, the majority portion (e.g. 80%) of revenue where payment is tied to shipment and the entire product cost of sale are recognized upon shipment and passage of title and the minority portion of the purchase price related to customer 19 Table of Contents acceptance is deferred and recognized upon receipt of customer acceptance. For arrangements containing multiple elements the revenue relating to the undelivered elements is deferred using the relative selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until delivery of the deferred elements. We limit the amount of revenue recognition for delivered elements to the amount that is not contingent on the future delivery of products or services, future performance obligations or subject to customer-specified return or adjustment. On shipments where sales are not recognized, gross profit is generally recorded as deferred profit in our consolidated balance sheet representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the inventory shipped. Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized. Our warranty obligation estimates are affected by historical product shipment levels, product performance, and material and labor costs incurred in correcting product performance problems. Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans. We record valuation reserves on our inventory for estimated excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future product demand, market conditions and product selling prices. If future product demand, market conditions or product selling prices are less than those projected by management or if continued modifications to products are required to meet specifications or other customer requirements, increases to inventory reserves may be required, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Income Taxes: We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits. Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations. We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets. Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of December 27, 2014 was approximately $44.2 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $37.0 million. Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carry-forwards. Goodwill, Purchased Intangible Assets and Other Long-lived Assets: We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on customer forecasts, industry trade organization data and general economic conditions. We conduct our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1st of each year. As of October 1, 2014, we concluded there was no impairment as the estimated fair values of our semiconductor equipment and microwave communications reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately 35% and 17%, respectively. Subsequent to our annual goodwill impairment test, in the fourth quarter of 2014, we determined an interim analysis was required and as of December 27, 2014 concluded that the fair market value of our microwave 20 Table of Contents communications reporting unit goodwill was lower than its carrying value. As a result, we recorded a non-cash, pre-tax impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2014. Additional information is included in Note 3, Microwave Communications Equipment Segment Impairment and Restructuring in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the assets carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Contingencies: We are subject to certain contingencies that arise in the ordinary course of our businesses which require us to assess the likelihood that future events will confirm the existence of a loss or an impairment of an asset. If a loss or asset impairment is probable and the amount of the loss or impairment is reasonably estimable, we accrue a charge to operations in the period such conditions become known. Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit. Share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1, Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In June 2014, we sold our video camera segment, Cohu Electronics, and its operating results are being presented as discontinued operations. All prior period amounts have been reclassified and unless otherwise indicated the discussion below covers the comparative results from continuing operations. Additionally, on December 31, 2012, we purchased Ismeca and the results of its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since that date. The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: 2014 2013 2012 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (66.3 )% (72.6 )% (70.1 )% Gross margin 33.7 % 27.4 % 29.9 % Research and development (12.2 )% (20.1 )% (16.3 )% Selling, general and administrative (17.3 )% (23.3 )% (20.4 )% Impairment of goodwill and other assets (1.5 )% % % Income (loss) from continuing operations 2.7 % (16.0 )% (6.8 )% 2014 Compared to 2013 Net Sales Cohus consolidated net sales increased 43.9% from $231.6 million in 2013 to $333.3 million in 2014. Our semiconductor equipment segment generated sales totaling $316.6 million and increased 47.6% from 2013. Semiconductor equipment sales represented 95.0% of consolidated net sales during 2014 versus 92.6% in the prior year. Sales in 2014 benefitted from higher spending on test equipment which resulted in increased shipments of our semiconductor equipment products used by automotive, mobile, consumer, discrete and industrial semiconductor customers. 21 Table of Contents Sales of microwave communications equipment were $16.7 million, which represents 5.0% of consolidated net sales in 2014 and decreased 2.2% compared to 2013. Gross Margin Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of the cost of materials, assembly and test labor and overhead from operations. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix of products sold, product support costs, inventory reserve adjustments and utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 33.7% in 2014 from 27.4% in 2013. Improvement in our gross margin, as compared to the prior year, was generated by our semiconductor equipment segment and resulted from better operating leverage as a result of increased business volume, the benefits from the transition of our supply chain and manufacturing activities to Asia, favorable product mix and lower charges to cost of sales related to excess, obsolete and lower of cost or market inventory adjustments. In addition, prior year gross margin was negatively impacted by $1.0 million of inventory step-up costs recorded during the year and a one-time impact that resulted from the adoption of Cohus revenue recognition policy. Our gross margin has been impacted by charges to cost of sales related to excess, obsolete and lower of cost or market inventory issues. We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast. During 2014 and 2013, we recorded net charges to cost of sales of approximately $3.9 million and $7.8 million, respectively, for excess and obsolete inventory. While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at December 27, 2014, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, as a result of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our gross margin in future periods. Research and Development Expense (R&D Expense) R&D expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in ongoing research, product design and development activities, costs of engineering materials and supplies and professional consulting expenses. Our future operating results depend, to a considerable extent on our ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the products we provide and historically we have maintained our commitment to investing in R&D in order to be able to continue to offer new products to our customers. R&D expense in 2014 was $40.6 million or 12.2% of net sales decreasing from $46.5 million or 20.1% of net sales in 2013. The decrease in 2014 was a result of product development programs that have concluded or are nearing completion as planned, and cost control measures which were implemented throughout 2013 and 2014 within both our semiconductor and microwave communications equipment segments. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A Expense) SG&A expense consists primarily of salaries and benefit costs of employees, commission expense for independent sales representatives, product promotion and costs of professional services. SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales decreased to 17.3% in 2014, from 23.3% in 2013, increasing from $54.1 million in 2013 to $57.5 million in 2014. In 2014 SG&A expense increased, in absolute dollars, as a result of increased business volume within our semiconductor equipment segment and a $1.0 million increase in employee share based compensation expense. In 2014, our SG&A expense also benefitted from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar and we recorded $2.0 million in foreign currency translation gains. SG&A expense in 2014 included $2.2 million of manufacturing transition and employee severance costs incurred in connection with the transitioning of some of our semiconductor equipment manufacturing to Asia and the geographic consolidation of mobile microwave communications equipment segment. SG&A expense in 2013 included $1.7 million of manufacturing transition and severance costs and $0.4 million of acquisition related costs incurred in connection with completing the purchase of Ismeca. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets Subsequent to the preparation of our annual impairment test as of October 1, 2014, as a result of changes to the estimated market value of our microwave communications equipment reporting unit that occurred during the fourth quarter, we determined it was necessary to evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of this segment as of December 27, 2014. For this analysis we utilized the market approach as the primary valuation method and determined that the carrying value of our microwave communications equipment reporting unit exceeded its current fair market value. As a result, we recorded a non-cash, pre-tax impairment charge of $5.0 million or 1.5% of net sales. There were no similar charges recorded in any other period presented. Additional information can be found in Note 3, Microwave Communications Equipment Segment Impairment and Restructuring in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. 22 Table of Contents Income Taxes The income tax provision expressed as a percentage of pre-tax income in 2014 was 36.1% and income tax benefit expressed as a percentage of pre-tax loss in 2013 was 7.6%. The income tax provision and benefit for the years ended December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to tax credits, changes in the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates, non-deductible goodwill impairment charge and other factors. Companies are required to assess whether a valuation allowance should be recorded against their deferred tax assets (DTAs) based on the consideration of all available evidence, using a more likely than not realization standard. The four sources of taxable income that must be considered in determining whether DTAs will be realized are, (1) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences (i.e. offset of gross deferred tax assets against gross deferred tax liabilities); (2) taxable income in prior carryback years, if carryback is permitted under the tax law; (3) tax planning strategies and (4) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards. In assessing whether a valuation allowance is required, significant weight is to be given to evidence that can be objectively verified. We have evaluated our DTAs each reporting period, including an assessment of our cumulative income or loss over the prior three-year period and future periods, to determine if a valuation allowance was required. A significant negative factor in our assessment was Cohus three-year cumulative U.S. loss history at the end of various fiscal periods including 2014. As a result of our cumulative, three-year U.S. GAAP pretax loss from continuing operations of approximately $43.2 million at the end of 2014, and our U.S. loss in 2014, we were unable to conclude at December 27, 2014 that it was more likely than not that our U.S. DTAs would be realized. We will evaluate the realizability of our DTAs at the end of each quarterly reporting period in 2015 and should circumstances change it is possible the remaining valuation allowance, or a portion thereof, will be reversed in a future period. Our valuation allowance on DTAs at December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013 was approximately $37.0 million and $36.1 million, respectively. The remaining gross DTAs for which a valuation allowance was not recorded are realizable primarily through future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. As the realization of DTAs is determined by tax jurisdiction, the significant deferred tax liabilities recorded as part of the 2008 acquisition of Rasco, a German corporation, and the fiscal 2013 acquisition of Ismeca, a Swiss Corporation, were not a source of taxable income in assessing the realization of our DTAs in the U.S. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which reinstated the United States federal research and development tax credit retroactively from January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013, was not enacted into law until the first quarter of 2013. Therefore, the tax benefit from the credits for 2012 and 2013 are reflected in our 2013 income tax provision. For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate and further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 7, Income Taxes, included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Income (loss) from Continuing Operations and Net Income (loss) As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations was $5.8 million in 2014, compared to a loss of $34.3 million in 2013. Including the results of our discontinued video camera segment, our net income in 2014 was $8.7 million as compared to a net loss of $33.4 million in 2013. 2013 Compared to 2012 Net Sales Cohus consolidated net sales increased 12.3% from $206.3 million in 2012 to $231.6 million in 2013. Our semiconductor equipment segment generated sales totaling $214.5 million and increased 19.5% from 2012. Semiconductor equipment sales represented 92.6% of consolidated net sales during 2013 versus 87.0% in the prior year. Sales recorded by our semiconductor equipment segment during 2013 include twelve months of sales activity for Ismeca which were approximately $64.4 million. Semiconductor equipment sales in 2013 also benefitted from increased demand for gravity-feed equipment and MEMs modules which were offset by a decrease in customer orders for pick-and-place test handler systems. 23 Table of Contents Sales of microwave communications equipment were $17.1 million, which represents 7.4% of consolidated net sales in 2013 and decreased 36.5% compared to 2012. The decreased business volume within our microwave communications equipment segment during 2013 was a result of U.S. government sequestration and budget uncertainties which led to customer order delays and push outs for equipment to be used in security and surveillance infrastructure projects that rely on federal funding. Gross Margin Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 27.4% in 2013 from 29.9% in 2012. During 2013 our gross margin was negatively impacted by $0.3 million of manufacturing transition and severance costs incurred as a result of moving certain manufacturing activities to Asia as part of our efforts to reduce costs and streamline our operations. The acquisition of Ismeca also reduced 2013 gross margin due to $1.0 million of inventory step-up costs recorded during the year and a one-time impact that resulted from the adoption of Cohus revenue recognition policy. During 2013 and 2012, we recorded net charges to cost of sales of approximately $7.8 million and $8.6 million, respectively, for excess and obsolete inventory. R&D Expense R&D expense in 2013 includes twelve months of costs for Ismeca. R&D expense in 2013 was $46.5 million or 20.1% of net sales increasing from $33.6 million or 16.3% of net sales in 2012. The increase in 2013 was a result of $11.6 million in incremental R&D expense generated by Ismeca, as well as product development expense incurred by our semiconductor equipment segment and $0.4 million of manufacturing transition and severance costs incurred by our semiconductor equipment and microwave communications equipment businesses. SG&A Expense SG&A expense as a percentage of net sales increased to 23.3% in 2013, from 20.4% in 2012, increasing from $42.1 million in 2012 to $54.1 million in 2013. SG&A expense in 2013 included $12.6 million in incremental SG&A expense generated by Ismeca and $1.7 million of manufacturing transition and severance costs. Also included in SG&A are transaction costs totaling $0.4 million and $2.3 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively, incurred in connection with our acquisition of Ismeca. Income Taxes The credit for income taxes expressed as a percentage of pre-tax loss was 7.6% in 2013 and 6.7% in 2012. The credit for income taxes for the years ended December 28, 2013 and December 29, 2012 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to tax credits, changes in the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at different rates and other factors. Our valuation allowance on DTAs at December 28, 2013 and December 29, 2012 was approximately $36.1 million and $24.9 million, respectively. Loss from Continuing Operations and Net Loss As a result of the factors set forth above, our loss from continuing operations in 2013 and 2012 was $34.3 million and $12.2 million, respectively. Including the results of our discontinued video segment, our net loss in 2013 and 2012 was $33.4 million and $12.1 million, respectively. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The cyclical and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. As of December 27, 2014, $47.4 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes or foreign withholding taxes if we repatriate these funds. Our intent is to indefinitely reinvest these funds in our foreign operations and we have no current plans that would require us to repatriate these funds to the U.S. 24 Table of Contents Liquidity Working Capital: The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital at December 27, 2014 and December 28, 2013: (in thousands) 2014 2013 Increase Percentage Change Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 72,040 $ 52,868 $ 19,172 36 % Working capital $ 145,264 $ 125,837 $ 19,427 15 % Cash Flows Operating Activities: Cash generated from operating activities consists of net income or loss adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items include depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and deferred income taxes. Our net cash flows provided by operating activities in 2014 totaled $19.7 million compared to $3.4 million in 2013. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily a result of our net income in the current year. Cash provided by operating activities also was impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities and, excluding the impact of the sale of Cohu Electronics, included increases in accounts receivable of $15.5 million; accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities of $6.1 million; inventories of $1.9 million; deferred profit of $1.4 million; other current and non-current assets of $1.1 million and income taxes payable of $1.4 million. The increase in accounts receivable resulted from a sequential increase in product shipments made by our semiconductor equipment segment during the second half of 2014 and the timing of the resulting cash conversion cycle. Material purchases made by our semiconductor equipment segment to fulfill orders for semiconductor equipment led to an increase in our inventory balance and deferred profit increased due to revenue deferrals of semiconductor equipment shipments made in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. The increases in accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities resulted from higher business volume, increased incentive compensation accruals, the timing of cash payments made to our employees and the accrual of employee severance by our microwave communication equipment segment related to its geographic consolidation plan. The increase in income taxes payable is a result of an increase in taxable income generated in fiscal 2014. Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our businesses, proceeds from investment maturities, asset disposal and divestitures, and cash used for purchases of investments and business acquisitions. Our net cash provided by investing activities in 2014 totaled $8.6 million and was primarily the result of the sale of Cohu Electronics for $10.3 million. The decision to sell Cohu Electronics resulted from Cohu managements determination that this industry segment was no longer a strategic fit within our organization. Additions to property, plant and equipment 2014 were $1.7 million and were made to support the operating and development activities of our semiconductor equipment and microwave communication businesses. Financing Activities: Cash used in financing activities consisted of amounts distributed to our stockholders in the form of cash dividends. During 2014, we paid dividends totaling $6.1 million, or $0.24 per common share. On February 19, 2015 we announced a cash dividend of $0.06 per share on our common stock, payable on, April 17, 2015 to stockholders of record as of March 3, 2015. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Offsetting cash used in the payment of dividends were the net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our equity incentive and employee stock purchase plans, which totaled $1.9 million during 2014. We issue stock options and maintain an employee stock purchase plan as components of our overall employee compensation. Capital Resources We have a secured letter of credit facility (the Secured Facility) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on behalf of Cohu and our subsidiaries. The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding standby letters of credit. As of December 27, 2014, we had approximately $0.4 million of standby letters of credit outstanding. As a result of the acquisition of Ismeca, we have an agreement with Credit Suisse (the Ismeca Facility) under which it administers a line of credit on behalf of Ismeca. Total borrowings available under the Ismeca Facility is 0.5 million Swiss Francs and at December 27, 2014 no amounts were outstanding. 25 Table of Contents We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 27, 2014, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our balance sheet as current liabilities at December 27, 2014. Amounts excluded include our liability for unrecognized tax benefits that totaled approximately $10.8 million at December 27, 2014. We are currently unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount or period(s) the cash settlement of this liability may occur. (in thousands) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Thereafter Total Non-cancelable operating leases $ 1,270 $ 1,111 $ 958 $ 676 $ 385 $ 1,155 $ 5,555 The table above does not include pension, post-retirement benefit and warranty obligations because it is not certain when these liabilities will be funded. For additional information regarding our pension and post-retirement benefits obligations see Note 6, Employee Benefit Plans and for more information on our contractual obligations, see Note 11, Guarantees in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers. From time to time, we enter into commitments with our suppliers to purchase inventory and contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. During the normal course of business, we issue purchase orders with estimates of our requirements several months ahead of the delivery dates. However, our agreements with these suppliers usually allow us the option to reschedule or adjust our requirements based on our business needs. Typically purchase orders outstanding with delivery dates within 30 days are non-cancelable. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. We typically do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for the next six to twelve months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit instruments to certain parties as required. As of December 27, 2014, the maximum potential amount of future payments that we could be required to make under these standby letters of credit was approximately $0.4 million. No liability has been recorded in connection with these arrangements beyond those required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed. Based on historical experience and information currently available, we do not believe it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these arrangements.