Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Form 10-Q contains certain forward-looking statements including expectations of market conditions, challenges and plans, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is subject to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute. Such forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and beliefs, including estimates and projections about our business and include, but are not limited to, statements concerning financial position, business strategy, and plans or objectives for future operations. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict and may cause actual results to differ materially from managements current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include those set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading Item 1A. Risk Factors. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect managements outlook at any other point in time. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or for any other reason, however, readers should carefully review the risk factors set forth in other reports or documents we file from time to time with the SEC after the date of this Quarterly Report. OVERVIEW Cohu is a leading supplier of semiconductor test and inspection handlers, micro-electro mechanical system (MEMS) test modules, test contactors and thermal subsystems used by global semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors. Our business is significantly dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors, which in turn is dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors that is subject to seasonal trends. We expect that the semiconductor equipment industry will continue to be seasonal and volatile in part because consumer electronics, the principal end market for integrated circuits, is a highly dynamic industry and demand has traditionally fluctuated. During the quarter ended March 25, 2017, we saw a continued increase in the demand for our products, with our net sales increasing 15% compared to the quarter ended December 31, 2016 and 23% from the quarter ended March 26, 2016. This demand is driven, primarily, by semiconductor equipment products used for the testing devices used in automotive, mobility and IoT (Internet of Things) markets. Customer test cell utilization remains strong and we believe demand for our products will continue to be strong over the next quarter. Long-term, we continue to see momentum in the automotive and mobile markets and are optimistic about the long-term prospects for the semiconductor equipment industry due to the increasing technological functionality of mobile devices, growing integrated circuit and LED content in automobiles and consumer products, and expanding applications in industrial. We are focused on growing our market share in the mobility, automotive and solid state markets and expanding into the test contacting and wafer level package test markets. Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience, forecasts and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, however actual results may differ from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Our critical accounting estimates that we believe are the most important to an investors understanding of our financial results and condition and require complex management judgment include: revenue recognition, including the deferral of revenue on sales to customers, which impacts our results of operations; estimation of valuation allowances and accrued liabilities, specifically product warranty, inventory reserves and allowance for bad debts, which impact gross margin or operating expenses; the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, which impact our tax provision; the assessment of recoverability of long-lived assets including goodwill and other intangible assets, which primarily impacts gross margin or operating expenses if we are required to record impairments of assets or accelerate their depreciation or amortization; and the valuation and recognition of share-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development expense, and selling, general and administrative expense. 18 Cohu, Inc. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations March 25, 2017 Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective. Revenue Recognition: We generally recognize revenue upon shipment and title passage for established products (i.e., those that have previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements) that provide for full payment tied to shipment. Revenue for products that have not previously satisfied customer acceptance requirements or from sales where customer payment dates are not determinable is recognized upon customer acceptance. In certain instances, customer payment terms may provide that a minority portion (e.g. up to 20%) of the equipment purchase price be paid only upon customer acceptance. In those situations, the majority portion (e.g. 80%) of revenue where the contingent payment is tied to shipment and the entire product cost of sale are recognized upon shipment and passage of title and the minority portion of the purchase price related to customer acceptance is deferred and recognized upon receipt of customer acceptance. For arrangements containing multiple elements the revenue relating to the undelivered elements is deferred using the relative selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until delivery of the deferred elements. We limit the amount of revenue recognition for delivered elements to the amount that is not contingent on the future delivery of products or services, future performance obligations or subject to customer-specified return or adjustment. On shipments where sales are not recognized, gross profit is generally recorded as deferred profit in our consolidated balance sheet, representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the inventory shipped. Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires us to estimate the future demand for our products. The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans. We record valuation reserves on our inventory for estimated excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future product demand, market conditions and product selling prices. If future product demand, market conditions or product selling prices are less than those projected by management or if continued modifications to products are required to meet specifications or other customer requirements, increases to inventory reserves may be required which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Income Taxes: We estimate our liability for income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our (i) current taxes; (ii) temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes and (iii) unrecognized tax benefits. Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The deferred tax assets are analyzed and reduced by a valuation allowance by jurisdiction, if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations. We must make significant judgments to determine the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and any valuation allowance to be recorded against deferred tax assets. Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of March 25, 2017 was approximately $49.4 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $46.1 million. Our deferred tax assets consist primarily of reserves and accruals that are not yet deductible for tax and tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards. Segment Information: We applied the provisions of ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting , (ASC 280), which sets forth a management approach to segment reporting and establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures about products, major customers and the geographies in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue. An operating segment is defined as a component that engages in business activities whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker and for which discrete financial information is available. Based on the provisions of ASC 280, we have determined that our identified operating segments qualify for aggregation under ASC 280 due to similarities in their customers, their economic characteristics, and the nature of products and services provided. As a result, we report in one segment, semiconductor equipment. 19 Cohu, Inc. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations March 25, 2017 Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets: We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on customer forecasts, industry trade organization data and general economic conditions. We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1st of each year, and have determined there was no impairment as of October 1, 2016 as we determined that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values on that date. Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates. As of March 25, 2017 we do not believe there have been any events or circumstances that would require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment review. In the event we determine that an interim goodwill impairment review is required, in a future period, the review may result in an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the assets carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized. Our warranty obligation estimates are affected by historical product shipment levels, product performance and material and labor costs incurred in correcting product performance problems. Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. Contingencies: We are subject to certain contingencies that arise in the ordinary course of our businesses which require us to assess the likelihood that future events will confirm the existence of a loss or an impairment of an asset. If a loss or asset impairment is probable and the amount of the loss or impairment is reasonably estimable, we accrue a charge to operations in the period such conditions become known. Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit. Share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of accounting changes and recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1, Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS On January 4, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Kita and the results of its operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since that date. The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: Three Months Ended March 25, March 26, 2017 2016 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (60.2 %) (70.7 %) Gross margin 39.8 % 29.3 % Research and development (12.1 %) (11.7 %) Selling, general and administrative (17.8 %) (19.9 %) Income (loss) from operations 9.9 % (2.3 %) 20 Cohu, Inc. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations March 25, 2017 First Quarter of Fiscal 2017 Compared to First Quarter of Fiscal 2016 Net Sales Our consolidated net sales increased 23.3% to $81.1 million in 2017, compared to net sales of $65.8 million in 2016. Global demand for back-end semiconductor test and assembly equipment is seasonal in part because consumer electronics, the principal end market for integrated circuits, is a highly dynamic industry and demand has traditionally fluctuated. Consolidated net sales in the first quarter of 2017 are up from 2016 as a result of the improving business conditions within the semiconductor industry and our success in growing share in the test handler and test contactor markets. Our increased sales were driven by demand for equipment for testing semiconductor devices used in automotive, mobility and IoT (Internet of Things) markets. Consolidated net sales in the first quarter of 2017 also include the net sales of Kita, totaling $4.1 million which was acquired on January 4, 2017. Gross Margin Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of the cost of materials, assembly and test labor, and overhead from operations. Our gross margin can fluctuate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the mix of products sold, product support costs, inventory reserve adjustments, and utilization of manufacturing capacity. Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, was 39.8% in 2017 and 29.3% in 2016. As compared to the prior year, gross margin in the first quarter of 2017 has benefitted from lower manufacturing costs as a result of our transition of volume handler manufacturing from the U.S. and Europe to Asia, as well as a significant increase in business volume which enabled us to better leverage our fixed costs and lower charges for excess and obsolete inventory. The first quarter of 2017 benefitted $0.6 million in lower intangible asset amortization due to certain assets being fully amortized in 2016 off-set, in part, by the amortization of $0.3 million of purchase accounting inventory step-up adjustment recorded as a result of our acquisition of Kita. As highlighted above, our gross margin can be impacted by charges to cost of sales related to excess, obsolete and lower of cost or market inventory issues. We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast. During the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and 2016, we recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $0.1 million and $0.8 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively. While we believe our reserves for excess and obsolete inventory and lower of cost or market concerns are adequate to cover known exposures at March 25, 2017, reductions in customer forecasts or continued modifications to products, as a result of our failure to meet specifications or other customer requirements, may result in additional charges to operations that could negatively impact our results of operations and gross margin in future periods. Research and Development Expense (R&D Expense) R&D expense consists primarily of salaries and related costs of employees engaged in ongoing research, product design and development activities, costs of engineering materials and supplies, and professional consulting expenses. R&D expense was $9.8 million or 12.1% of net sales in 2017, compared to $7.7 million or 11.7% in 2016. New product development programs resulted in higher R&D labor and material expense in 2017. R&D expense in 2016 benefitted from $0.6 million of reimbursements received under a cost-sharing arrangement with a customer. No reimbursements were received in the first quarter of 2017. The first quarter of 2017 includes $0.4 million of incremental R&D costs due to the acquisition of Kita. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SG&A Expense) SG&A expense consists primarily of salaries and benefit costs of employees, commission expense for independent sales representatives, product promotion and costs of professional services. SG&A expense was $14.5 million or 17.8% of net sales in 2017, compared to $13.1 million or 19.9% in 2016. SG&A expense in 2017 was higher as a result of increased business volume. Our SG&A expense has also been negatively affected by the weakening of the U.S. Dollar, which resulted in the recognition of $1.3 million and $0.5 million in foreign currency transaction losses in the first quarter of 2017 and 2016, respectively. SG&A expense also includes costs incurred specifically related to the Kita acquisition totaling $0.2 million and $0.1 million in the first quarter of 2017 and 2016, respectively. The first quarter of 2017 includes $0.8 million of incremental SG&A costs due to the acquisition of Kita. Income Taxes For the three months ended March 25, 2017, we used the estimated effective tax rate (ETR) expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year in computing our tax provision. The ETR on income (loss) from continuing operations for the three months ended March 25, 2017 and March 26, 2016 was 16.7% and (15.1)%, respectively. The tax provision in 2017 and 2016 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to the lack of a benefit on our domestic losses as a result of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, foreign income taxed at lower rates, changes in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance, state taxes and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits. 21 Cohu, Inc. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations March 25, 2017 Other than for foreign currency exchange rate changes and the Kita Acquisition, there was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the three-month periods ended March 25, 2017 and March 26, 2016. Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income As a result of the factors set forth above, our income from continuing operations and net income was $6.8 million in 2017. In 2016, our loss from continuing operations and net loss was $1.7 million. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors. The cyclical and volatile nature of demand for semiconductor equipment, our primary industry, makes estimates of future revenues, results of operations and net cash flows difficult. Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development. As of March 25, 2017, $60.4 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes if we repatriate these funds. Except for certain geographic locations where we have curtailed operations and from which repatriation would not result in incremental U.S. or foreign withholding tax, our intent is to indefinitely reinvest these funds in our foreign operations and we have no current plans that would require us to repatriate these funds to the U.S. Liquidity Working Capital: The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital: March 25, December 31, Percentage (in thousands) 2017 2016 Decrease Change Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 106,205 $ 128,035 $ (21,830 ) (17.1 %) Working capital $ 172,283 $ 176,460 $ (4,177 ) (2.4 %) Cash Flows Operating Activities: Operating cash flows for the first three months of fiscal 2017 consist of our net income, adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities. These adjustments include depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, share-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets and deferred income taxes. Our net cash used in operating activities in the first three months of fiscal 2017 totaled $7.2 million. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Kita, net cash used in operating activities was impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities and included increases in accounts receivable of $15.8 million, inventories of $4.7 million and accounts payable of $5.4 million. The increase in accounts receivable resulted from a sequential increase in product shipments and the timing of the resulting cash conversion cycle. Material purchases made to fulfill customer orders for equipment expected to ship in future quarters led to an increase in our consolidated inventory balance and accounts payable increased as a result of the timing of cash payments made to our suppliers and vendors. Deferred profit decreased $2.1 million as a result of the recognition of certain sales that had been previously deferred in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our businesses, proceeds from investment maturities, asset disposals and cash used for purchases of investments and business acquisitions. Net cash used in investing activities in the first three months of fiscal 2017 totaled $3.5 million and was primarily the result of $11.7 million used for the acquisition of Kita, net of $3.3 million of cash received. The acquisition of Kita was a strategic transaction to expand our total available market, extend our market leadership and broaden our product offerings. Investing activities in the first quarter of 2017 were also impacted by $17.7 million in net proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments offset by $8.1 million in cash used for purchases of short-term investments. We invest our excess cash, in an attempt to seek the highest available return while preserving capital, in short-term investments since excess cash is only temporarily available and may be required for a business related purpose. Additions to property, plant and equipment of $1.4 million were made to support the operating and development activities of our business. 22 Cohu, Inc. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations March 25, 2017 Financing Activities: Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders. We issue stock options and maintain an employee stock purchase plan as components of our overall employee compensation. In the first three months of fiscal 2017, we used cash totaling $1.0 million, net of $1.9 million of cash generated by stock issuances, to repurchase common stock to settle the minimum statutory tax withholding requirements paid by us on behalf of our employees upon vesting of restricted and performance stock awards. We paid dividends totaling $1.6 million, or $0.06 per common share. On April 25, 2017, Cohu's Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share payable on July 28, 2017, to shareholders of record on June 16, 2017. Future quarterly dividends are subject to our cash liquidity, capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. Total repayments of long-term debt during the first three months of fiscal 2017 totaled $0.5 million. Capital Resources In connection with the acquisition of Kita on January 4, 2017, we assumed a series of revolving credit facilities with various financial institutions in Japan. The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $6.3 million. At March 25, 2017 total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit was $3.2 million. As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. We also assumed long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $7.1 million primarily related to the expansion of Kitas facility in Osaka, Japan The loan amounts outstanding are collateralized by the facility and land. The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 1.43% and expire at various dates through 2034. At March 25, 2017, $1.2 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates. We have a secured letter of credit facility (the Secured Facility) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf. The Secured Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments, which serve as collateral, in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit. As of March 25, 2017, no amounts were outstanding under standby letters of credit under the Secured Facility. We also have credit agreements with multiple financial institutions under which they administer lines of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary. The agreements provide Ismeca with 2.5 million Swiss Francs of available credit and at March 25, 2017, no amounts were outstanding. We expect that we will continue to make capital expenditures to support our business and we anticipate that present working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Contractual Obligations: Our significant contractual obligations consist of liabilities for debt, operating leases, unrecognized tax benefits, pensions, post-retirement benefits and warranties. As a result of the acquisition of Kita on January 4, 2017, our contractual obligations for debt increased approximately $10.3 million, of which approximately $1.2 million will be due in the remainder of 2017, $1.3 million will be due in 2018, $0.9 million will be due in 2019, $0.3 million will be due in both years 2020 and 2021 and $6.3 million thereafter. Purchase Commitments: From time to time, we enter into commitments with our vendors and outsourcing partners to purchase inventory at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within relatively short time horizons. We typically do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for the next three months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit instruments to certain parties as required. As of March 25, 2017, no amounts were outstanding under standby letters of credit. 23