ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion includes forward-looking statements about the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations, including discussions about managements expectations for the business. These statements represent projections, beliefs and expectations based on current circumstances and conditions and in light of recent events and trends, and you should not construe these statements either as assurances of performance or as promises of a given course of action. Instead, various known and unknown factors are likely to cause actual performance and managements actions to vary, and the results of these variances may be both material and adverse. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. The following discussion should also be read in conjunction with the audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements, and unaudited condensed financial statements including the notes thereto, appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview On June 3, 2013, Converted Organics, Inc. entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Finjan. Effective as of June 3, 2013, and pursuant to the Merger Agreement, a wholly owned subsidiary merged with and into Finjan and Finjan became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Converted Organics, Inc. (the Merger). Concurrent to the Merger on June 3, 2013, Converted Organics, Inc.s name was changed to Finjan Holdings, Inc. As a condition to the closing of the Merger, we entered into an Exchange Agreement (the Exchange Agreement) with each of Hudson Bay Master Fund Ltd. (Hudson Bay) and Iroquois Master Fund Ltd. (Iroquois). Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, immediately following the effectiveness of the Merger, Hudson Bay and Iroquois exchanged an aggregate of $1,192,500 principal amount of Converted Organics convertible notes, 13,281 shares of its 1% Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 633,327,000 shares, prior to the 1-for-12 reverse stock split, discussed below, of its common stock for an aggregate of 1,789,469 shares of Finjan Holdings common stock, or 8.0% of outstanding common stock immediately following the Merger on a fully-diluted basis. We operate two businesses, each of which constitutes a separate reportable segment. The two reportable segments include: the web and network security technology segment, which is operated through Finjan, and the organic fertilizer segment, which is operated through Converted Organics. We intend to carry on its web and network security technology business as its principal line of business. We are evaluating whether to continue the organic fertilizer business as currently conducted. There can be no assurance that we will continue to operate the organic fertilizer business as previously operated or at all. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents related to software that proactively detects malicious code and thereby protects end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other web and network threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan was one of the first companies to develop and patent technology that is capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers, which were previously standard in the web and network security industry. As the network, web and endpoint security industries have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that the technology is widely used by third parties. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of its technology through further licensing and to broaden its technology and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2009, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the licensing and enforcement of its patent rights. We operate a processing facility in Gonzales, CA that uses food and agricultural waste as raw materials to manufacture organic fertilizer and soil amendment products combining nutritional and disease suppression characteristics for sale to the agribusiness market. The Gonzales, CA facility is the production facility that services the West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. This facility uses a proprietary technology and process known as High Temperature Liquid Composting, or HTLC , which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and food waste-based fertilizer and a limited amount of solids that could be further processed into a useable form for use in agriculture, retail, and professional turf markets. 23 Table of Contents Recent Developments 1-for-12 Reverse Stock Split On June 5, 2013, the board of directors approved an amendment to our certificate of Incorporation to effect a 1-for-12 reverse stock split of its issued and outstanding shares of common stock, immediately following the effectiveness of which every 12 issued and outstanding shares of common stock automatically converted into one share of common stock. The amendment to the certificate of Incorporation was approved by written consent of the holders of a majority of the shares of our common stock of the and delivered to us on July 5, 2013. The amendment was effective August 21, 2013. Employment Agreements On July 8, 2013, we entered into an employment agreement (the Hartstein Employment Agreement) with Philip Hartstein, pursuant to which Mr. Hartstein serves as our president. The Hartstein Employment Agreement provides for a base salary and a discretionary bonus at the end of every four month period of his employment term, based on Mr. Hartsteins performance and our overall progress. The Hartstein Employment Agreement was effective as of July 1, 2013. Either we or Mr. Hartstein may terminate the Hartstein Employment Agreement at any time upon 90 days prior written notice. The Hartstein Employment Agreement superseded a consulting agreement between Finjan, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, and Mr. Hartstein that provided for substantially the same compensation as described above. The consulting agreement between Finjan, Inc. and Mr. Hartstein ceased to be effective upon the entry into the Hartstein Employment Agreement. On July 8, 2013, we entered into an agreement (the Steinmetz Employment Agreement) with Shimon Steinmetz, pursuant to which Mr. Steinmetz serves as our chief financial officer. The Steinmetz Employment Agreement provides for a base salary and a discretionary bonus at the end of each calendar year during his employment term, based on Mr. Steinmetzs performance and the our overall progress. The Steinmetz Employment Agreement was effective as of July 1, 2013. Either we or Mr. Steinmetz may terminate the Steinmetz Employment Agreement at any time upon 90 days prior written notice. The Steinmetz Employment Agreement superseded a consulting agreement between Finjan, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, and Mr. Steinmetz that provided for substantially the same compensation as described above. The consulting agreement between Finjan, Inc. and Mr. Steinmetz ceased to be effective upon the entry into the Steinmetz Employment Agreement. Patent Litigation On July 8, 2013, Finjan filed a patent infringement lawsuit against FireEye, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. Finjan is asserting that FireEye, Inc. is infringing upon several of Finjans patents. On August 8, 2013, Finjan filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Blue Coat Systems, Inc., for infringement of Finjan patents relating to endpoint, web, and network security technologies On September 24, 2013 filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Websense, Inc., for infringement of Finjan patents relating to endpoint, web, and network security technologies. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (or US GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with US GAAP requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, warranties and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and our revenue recognition. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and the impact of such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Critical accounting policies are those policies that, in managements view, are most important in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our financial statements. These critical accounting policies require us to make 24 Table of Contents difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Those critical accounting policies and estimates that require the most significant judgment are discussed further below. We consider our most critical accounting policies and estimates to be: revenue recognition, valuation of long lived assets, stock based compensation, accounting for business combinations-acquisition method accounting. Revenue Recognition As described below, Note 1 to the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included herein, revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery of the product or service has occurred, and all obligations have been performed pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. We recognize revenue from two operating segments, Web and Network Security and Organic Fertilizer. Revenue from our Web and Network Security segment results from the monetization of patented technologies by licensing through a negotiated agreement and/or enforcement of such patented technologies by a court of law. Due to our unique business, it is often necessary to file patent infringement litigation against users of our patented technologies as part of the licensing and enforcement activities. We make estimates and judgments when determining whether the collectability of fees receivable from licensees is reasonably assured. We assess the collectability of fees receivable based on a number of factors, including past transaction history and the credit-worthiness of licensees. If it is determined that collection is not reasonably assured, the fee is recognized when collectability becomes reasonably assured, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, which is generally upon receipt of cash for transactions where collectability may have been an issue. Managements estimates regarding collectability impact the actual revenues recognized each period and the timing of the recognition of revenues. Our assumptions and judgments regarding future collectability could differ from actual events and thus materially impact our financial position and results of operations. In general, our revenue arrangements provide for the payment of contractually determined fees in consideration for the grant of certain intellectual property rights for patented technologies owned or controlled by us. These rights typically include some combination of the following: (i) the grant of a non-exclusive, retroactive and future license to manufacture and/or sell products covered by patented technologies owned or controlled by our operating subsidiaries, (ii) a covenant-not-to-sue, (iii) the release of the licensee from certain claims, and (iv) the dismissal of any pending litigation. The intellectual property rights granted may be perpetual in nature, extending until the expiration of the related patents, or can be granted for a defined, relatively short period of time, with the licensee possessing the right to renew the agreement at the end of each contractual term for an additional minimum upfront payment. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, we have no further obligation with respect to the grant of the non-exclusive retroactive and future licenses, covenants-not-to-sue, releases, and other deliverables, including no express or implied obligation on our part to maintain or upgrade the technology, or provide future support or services. As such, the earnings process is complete and revenue is recognized upon the execution of the agreement, when collectability is reasonably assured and when all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Revenue from licenses issued through negotiated agreement with the licensee is recognized when the arrangement with the licensee has been signed and the license has been delivered and made effective, provided license fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue from settlements reached on legal enforcement of our patent rights and the release of the licensee from certain legal claims, is recognized on receipt of the settlement amounts. Revenue from our Organic Fertilizer segment results from two sources, product sales and tip fees. Product sales revenue comes from the sale of fertilizer products and is recognized upon delivery. Tip fee revenue is derived from waste haulers who pay us tip fees for accepting food waste generated by food distributors such as grocery stores, produce docks and fish markets, food processors and hospitality venues such as hotels, restaurants, convention centers and airports. Tip fee revenue is recognized straight-line over the period the fees are earned. Depending on the complexity of the underlying revenue arrangement and related terms and conditions, significant judgments, assumptions and estimates may be required to determine when substantial delivery of contract elements has occurred, whether any 25 Table of Contents significant ongoing obligations exist subsequent to contract execution, whether amounts due are collectible and the appropriate period or periods in which, or during which, the completion of the earnings process occurs. Depending on the magnitude of specific revenue arrangements, if different judgments, assumptions and estimates are made regarding contracts executed in any specific period, our periodic financial results may be materially affected. Stock-based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation payments to employees, non-employee consultants and directors are recognized as expense in the statements of income. The compensation cost for all employee stock-based awards is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award (determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model for stock options and intrinsic value on the date of grant for non-vested restricted stock), and is recognized as an expense over the employees requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the equity award). The fair value of compensation granted to a non-employee consultants is calculated using the contractual term as opposed to the expected term used for awards to employees and recognized at the earlier of the date at which a performance commitment is reached or the date at which the counterpartys performance is complete (e.g. vesting date). Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires significant estimates and judgments, including estimating the market price volatility of our common stock, future employee stock option exercise behavior and requisite service periods. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded only for those awards expected to vest using an estimated pre-vesting forfeiture rate. As such, we are required to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures at the time of grant and reflect the impact of estimated pre-vesting option forfeitures on compensation expense recognized. Estimates of pre-vesting forfeitures must be periodically revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We consider several factors in connection with our estimate of pre-vesting forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical pre-vesting forfeiture data. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results differ from our estimates, such amounts will be recorded as cumulative adjustments in the period the estimates are revised. We granted options to a small number of employees and consultants. We do not expect any of the awards granted to have forfeiture due to employee termination. Therefore, there is no forfeiture rate used in calculating stock-compensation expense. We will continue to monitor its expectations on an ongoing basis and revise this assumption as future circumstances dictate. If actual results differ significantly from these assumption, stock-based compensation expense and our results of operations could be materially impacted. Valuation of Long-lived and Intangible Assets We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important, which could trigger an impairment review, include the following: 1. Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; 2. Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; 3. Significant negative industry or economic trends; 4. Significant adverse changes in legal factors or in the business climate, including adverse regulatory actions or assessments; and 5. Significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period. If a potential impairment exists, a calculation is performed to determine the fair value of the long-lived asset. This calculation is based on a valuation model, which considers the estimated future undiscounted cash flows resulting from the use of the asset, and a discount rate commensurate with the risks involved. Third party appraised values may also be used in determining whether impairment potentially exists. The estimated fair value is compared to the long-lived assets carrying value to determine whether impairment exists. 26 Table of Contents As described above, in assessing the recoverability of intangible assets, significant judgment is required in connection with estimates of market values, estimates of the amount and timing of future cash flows, and estimates of other factors that are used to determine the fair value of the respective assets. If these estimates or related projections change in future periods, future intangible asset impairment tests may result in charges to earnings. Accounting for Business Combinations Acquisition Method of Accounting Acquisitions are accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting under Financial Accounting Standards Board, (or FASB), ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, or Topic 805. Topic 805 requires, among other things, that identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the purchase consideration is allocated to the assets acquired, including tangible assets, patents and other identifiable intangible assets and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair market values on the date of acquisition. Any excess purchase price after the initial allocation to identifiable net tangible and identifiable intangible assets is assigned to goodwill. Amounts attributable to patents are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated economic useful life of the underlying patents. Acquisition accounting includes the establishment of a net deferred tax asset or liability resulting from book tax basis differences related to assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the date of acquisition. We assess fair value for financial statement purposes using a variety of methods, including the use of present value models and may also reference independent analyses. Amounts recorded as intangible assets, including patents and patent rights, are based on assumptions and estimates, as of the date of acquisition, regarding the amount and timing of projected revenues and costs associated with the licensing and enforcement of patents and patent rights acquired, appropriate risk-adjusted discount rates, rates of technology adoption, market penetration, technological obsolescence, product launch timing, the impact of competition or lack of competition in the market place, tax implications and other factors. Also, upon acquisition, based on several of the estimates and assumptions previously described, we determine the estimated economic useful lives of the acquired intangible assets for amortization purposes. Management is responsible for determining the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date, solely for purposes of allocating the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Fair value measurements can be highly subjective, and it is possible that other professionals for other purposes, applying reasonable judgment and criteria to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts. Actual results may vary from projected results. Comparability to Future Results Set forth below are selected factors believed to have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. Fluctuation of Revenue and Expenses Related to Enforcement We expect revenue and expenses related to patent enforcement to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of revenues related to patent enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of the claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable judgments. We do not recognize revenue from enforcement actions until the proceeds of litigation are received (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of patent enforcement litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. 27 Table of Contents Public Company Expenses As a result of the Merger, Finjan became a subsidiary of a public company, and management anticipates that it will make an application to list our shares for trading on a national securities exchange, once the relevant listing criteria are satisfied. The historical operating results of Finjan, as a private company, that are reflected in our condensed consolidated financial statements do not reflect certain expenses that we incur, and will continue to incur, as a public company. We expects that selling, general and administrative expenses will increase as it pays legal counsel and accountants to assist in, among other things, establishing and maintaining more comprehensive compliance and governance functions, establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and preparing and distributing periodic public reports under the federal securities laws with respect to the business we operates through Finjan. We may also incur additional costs associated with compensation of non-employee directors and expect to incur costs associated with the retention of full-time employees and consultants. In addition, we expect that as part of a public company the cost of director and officer liability insurance will increase compared to costs incurred by Finjan prior to the Merger. Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation Prior to the Merger, Finjan had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 6 shares of Finjan common stock, all of which were awarded in May 2013 and were converted into options to purchase an aggregate of 1,585,476 shares of our common stock pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Following the Merger, our board of directors adopted the Finjan Holdings, Inc. 2013 Global Share Option Plan (the 2013 Option Plan) and the Converted Organics 2010 Omnibus Stock Compensation Plan (the 2010 Plan) also remains in effect. In addition, although the 2010 Plan replaced the 2006 Option Plan and no additional options will be issued under the 2006 Option Plan, we reserved the right to issue new options pursuant to the 2006 Option Plan to the extent that, and in the amount of, any outstanding options are forfeited under that plan. We do not intend to issue additional options under either the 2010 Plan or the 2006 Option Plan, and expect that future equity-based awards will be made under the 2013 Option Plan or other equity, incentive compensation or similar plans that we may adopt in the future, to directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, Finjan may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods. In April 2013, Finjan engaged its President and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to consulting agreements. These officers have since become full time employees of the Company. Furthermore, we intend to hire additional employees and/or consultants in the future to expand its business. Accordingly, we will incur compensation expenses in future periods that Finjan did not incur during the period prior to the Merger presented in its financial statements. Finjan Reorganization Until May 2, 2013, Finjan was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finjan Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation, referred to as FSI. In February 2013, Finjan distributed securities of two unaffiliated entities which it previously held to FSI, and made a payment of cash in an amount sufficient to repay and satisfy in full an intercompany loan from FSI to Finjan. Following that distribution, the board of directors and stockholders of FSI approved the dissolution of, and a plan of liquidation for, FSI that resulted in, among other things, the distribution of Finjan common stock to certain of FSIs stockholders, each of whom received shares of our common stock in the Merger. Recent Financing Activities Prior to the Merger Prior to the Merger, Converted Organics, Inc.s operations were financed primarily by the issuance of debt, equity and equity-linked securities. In connection with the Merger, we redeemed, cancelled or otherwise retired all of the notes and derivative securities previously issued by Converted Organics, Inc., other than warrants that are exercisable for a de minimis number of shares of common stock. See Recent DevelopmentsExchange Agreement above. Although we may require financing in the future, management expects that its cash on hand will be sufficient to satisfy its cash needs for at least the next twelve months. 28 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents the results of operations for three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Revenues: Web and network security technology $ $ 9,354 $ 1,000 $ 12,469 Organic fertilizer 394 593 Total revenues 394 9,354 1,593 12,469 Cost of revenues: Web and network security technology 252 3,165 657 6,094 Organic fertilizer 324 472 Total cost of revenues 576 3,165 1,129 6,094 Gross profit (loss) (182 ) 6,189 464 6,375 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 1,197 197 3,132 467 Transaction costs 790 Total operating expense 1,197 197 3,922 467 Income (loss) from operations (1,379 ) 5,992 (3,458 ) 5,908 Other income net: Interest income 7 16 118 133 Other Income (expense) (4 ) 13 Total other income, net 3 16 131 133 Net income (loss) before provision for income taxes (1,376 ) 6,008 (3,327 ) 6,041 Income tax expense 89 7 89 Net income (loss) $ (1,376 ) $ 5,919 $ (3,334 ) $ 5,952 (1) Subsequent to the completion of the Merger on June 3, 2013, the financial results include the financial results of the Converted Organics business. The historical financial statements of Finjan, Inc. are included in the comparative prior period. In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, total revenue decreased by approximately $9.0 million or 96% and $10.8 million or 87% respectively as compared to the same periods of 2012. This decrease was due to receipt of $9 million and $12 million for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2012 respectively in respect for settlement of a patent enforcement litigation and was partially offset by revenue related to the receipt of the second installment in respect of litigation settlement payment of $1.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2013, associated with a licensing agreement and by the addition of organic fertilizer revenue aggregating $394,000 from the Converted Organics after the Merger. The remaining amounts due under the litigation settlement will be recognized when payment is received, as collectability is not reasonably assured. Cost of goods sold include legal and litigation support costs associated with executing our strategy of licensing and protecting its web and network security technology patent portfolio, and production and material costs incurred by our organic fertilizer business. In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, cost of goods sold decreased by $2.6 million or 86%, and $5 million or 84%, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2012. Cost of sales for the web and network security business decreased due to lower net level of litigation support, third party technical consulting and professional expert expenses incurred. The decreases in total cost of sales were partially offset by the addition of cost of goods sold recorded by our organic fertilizer business subsequent to the Merger for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 of $0.4 million and $0.5 million respectively. Our operating expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation, consulting and other professional fees, and transaction costs associated with the Merger. In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, total operating expenses increased by $1 million and $3.4 million, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2012. These increased costs were primarily due to employee and contractor compensation costs of $1.0 million, reflecting the increased staff levels, along with professional fees incurred in connection with the Merger and executing our business plan amounting to $1.7 million. 29 Table of Contents The Merger in June 2013 was accounted for as a business combination. As a result, the associated consideration was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on managements estimate of fair value using the information available at the date of the Merger. The excess of purchase price over the fair value amounts assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed represents goodwill from the acquisition. Interest income decreased due to the lower average cash balance on hand during the 2013 periods compared to the same periods of 2012. Income tax expense decreased in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 by $89,000 or 100% and $82,000 or 92% respectively due to limited cumulative taxable operations of the Company in certain local jurisdictions compared to the same period in 2012. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expects to continue to devote significant capital resources to the litigation in process and any other litigation we pursue. We also expects to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, and acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy and to attract and retain qualified personnel on a full time basis. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally proceeds from settlements and judgments in connection with our patent enforcement activities. Based on current forecasts and assumptions, management believes that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. Even without such difficulties, we may seek to raise additional capital to grow our business. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption since late 2007, and the volatility and impact of the disruption has continued into 2013. At times during this period, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In several cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers, and there can be no assurance that we will have access to short-term financing. If we fail to obtain additional funding when needed, we may not be able to execute our business plans and our business may suffer. We had approximately $27.1 million of cash and cash equivalents and $27 million of working capital on a consolidated basis as of September 30, 2013. The decrease in our cash and cash equivalents of approximately $64.4 million from December 31, 2012 is primarily attributable to repayment of an inter-company loan to FSI of $33.9 million and approximately $31 million use in operations. Also as of September 30, 2013, The Companys current liabilities were approximately $0.9 million. Our Converted Organics subsidiary does not have funds to build additional facilities and we have no plans to raise such funds or allocate funds generated from our web and network security technology business for that purpose. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Finjans net cash used in operating activities increased by $24 million to $31 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2013 as compared to the same period in 2012. This increase was primarily attributable to the payment of accrued income taxes in the nine months ended September 30, 2013, which relate to taxes owed on the revenue earned in 2012. 30 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2013, cash flow provided by investing activities was approximately $560,000, as compared to $1.3 million in cash used by investing activities during the comparable period in 2012. The principal source of cash in the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was the proceeds from notes receivable and cash acquired through the Merger. Cash used in investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2012 related to purchase of preferred stock from an investee which securities were distributed to FSI during the second quarter of 2013. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2013, Finjan used cash of approximately $34.1 million in financing activities, as compared to $1.4 million in cash used in financing activities during the comparable period in 2012. The increase in cash used in financing activities was attributable to a loan repayment of $33.9 million made to Finjans former parent in the February 2013 along with the repurchase of common stock for $204,000. During the nine months ended September 30, 2012, the only financing activity was payment of $1.4 million to the former parent entity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In July 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2013-11, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists (ASU 2013-11). ASU 2013-11 clarifies guidance and eliminates diversity in practice on the presentation of unrecognized tax benefits when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists at the reporting date. This new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. The standard is not effective until on or after December 15, 2013 and early adoption is not mandatory. We are assessing the effect the adoption of the standard will have on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows for subsequent reporting periods.