Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes included thereto. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in any future period. Selected Statement of Operations Data For the Years Ended December 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Revenues $ 4,998 $ 744 $ - $ - $ - Gross Profit $ 800 $ (18) $ - $ - $ - Operating Income (Loss) $ 4,198 $ (7,497 ) $ (2,759 ) $ (1,818) $ 1,299 Total Other Income $ 1,090 $ $ $ $ 63 (Loss) Income from continuing operations $ (8,490) $ (6,072) $ 50,985 $ 24,098 $ (5,081) (Loss) Income from discontinued operations $ (1,990) $ - $ - $ - $ - Net (Loss) Income $ (10,480) $ (6,072) $ 50,985 $ 24,098 $ (5,081) $ Net (Loss) Income per share from continuing operations, Basic and diluted $ (0.38) $ (0.28) $ 2.48 $ 1.17 $ (1.41) Net (Loss) per share from discontinued operations, Basic and diluted $ (0.09) $ - $ - $ - $ - Net (Loss) Income per share, basic and diluted $ (0.47) $ (0.28) $ 2.48 $ 1.17 $ (1.41) Selected Balance Sheet Data As of December 31, (in thousands) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total Assets $ 20,699 $ 27,947 $ 104,332 $ 27,810 $ 17,196 Working Capital $ 17,058 $ 23,947 $ 29,633 $ (10,132) $ 1,561 Stockholders Equity $ 18,124 $ 27,023 $ 42,417 $ (10,132) $ 16,416 (1) On June 3, 2013, the Company consummated the Merger and changed its name from Converted Organics, Inc. to Finjan Holdings, Inc. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, (GAAP) because Finjans former stockholders received the greater portion of the voting rights in the combined entity and Finjans senior management represents all of the senior management of the combined entity, the Merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition under the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, with Finjan treated as the acquiring company in the Merger for accounting purposes. Consequently, the assets and liabilities and the historical operations that are reflected in our historical financial statements are those of Finjan. The results of operations of our organic fertilizer segment have been included in our assets and liabilities and our historical operations since June 3, 2013, the date we completed the Merger. (2) Finjan was founded in 1997 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finjan Software, Ltd. FSL, together with its subsidiaries, sold enterprise web security solutions, including real-time and behavior-based malware prevention. In October 2003, Finjans initial parent transferred all of its shares in Finjan to FSI. As a result of this transfer, Finjan became a wholly-owned subsidiary of FSI. The selected historical financial data presented above under the heading Selected Statement of Operations Data for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 and the selected historical financial data presented above under the heading Selected Balance Sheet Data as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 are those of Finjan. 28 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to, those set forth under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Overview As of December 4, 2014, we operate in a single segment, our web and network cybersecurity technology business, which we operate through Finjan. On December 4, 2014, we sold Converted Organics to Converted Organics, LLC, (the CO Purchaser). As a result of the sale of Converted Organics, our organic fertilizer segment was reclassified as discontinued operations for the periods presented, and we no longer operate an organic fertilizer business Effective as of June 3, 2013, the date we consummated the Merger and changed our name from Converted Organics, Inc. to Finjan Holdings, Inc., until December 4, 2014, we operated two businesses, each of which constituted a separate reportable segment. Our two reportable segments included: our web and network cybersecurity technology segment, which we operate through Finjan, and our organic fertilizer segment, which we operated through Converted Organics. Continuing Operations We continue to operate our web and network cybersecurity business through our subsidiary, Finjan. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents, related to software and hardware technologies that proactively detect malicious code and thereby protect end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other web and network threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented technologies that are capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based, basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers, which were standard in the web and network cybersecurity industry during the 1990s. As the network, web and endpoint cybersecurity industries have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that our technologies are widely used by third parties. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of our technologies through further licensing and to broaden our technologies and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. As a core element of our continued patent licensing and enforcement business, our management team, having expertise with technology and IP monetization, monitors a number of markets and assesses and observes the adoption of our patented technologies in these markets. Our management team, in conjunction with outside legal, technical, and financial experts concludes on a case-by-case basis whether or not they believe that Finjans patented technologies are being used. Based on these observations, we continue to believe our patented technologies are highly relevant in specific cybersecurity technology areas including, but not limited to, endpoint/cloud software, web gateway/internet infrastructure, and networking equipment markets. From that basis, the Company pursues unlicensed entities through licensing, assertion of claims or both to preserve the value of our portfolio in general. This also reinforces the value to existing licensees of the Finjan patent portfolio. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2008, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the enforcement of its patent rights against unauthorized use and, to a lesser extent, income derived from intellectual property licenses granted to third parties for the use of patented technologies that are owned by Finjan. 29 Finjans operating expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses. Finjan did not have any full-time employees from 2009 until shortly after the Merger in 2013. Instead, Finjan relied on outside legal counsel, technology consultants and other professionals to support operations during that period, some of whom are former investors and executives of Finjan. Accordingly, Finjans general and administrative expenses consisted primarily of legal fees and other expenses paid to third-party consultants. As of December 31, 2014, we have approximately 12 employees, most of whom joined the Company following the Merger. We intend to hire or engage additional full-time professionals, employees, and/or consultants in alignment with our growth strategy. Although the market is highly competitive for attracting and retaining highly qualified professionals in our industry, we continue our endeavor to find such candidates for our Company. Our management team and additional personnel that we may hire in the future will be primarily responsible for executing and implementing our licensing and enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and enforcement opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing technologies and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. Discontinued Operations On December 4, 2014, we sold Converted Organics to the CO Purchaser. As a result of the sale of Converted Organics, we no longer operate an organic fertilizer business and the results of operations of Converted Organics have been included in the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereof as discontinued operations. Accordingly, we have reported the results of operations of converted Organics as discontinued operations and reclassified the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 in order to reflect the change in the composition of the Companys segments. Such reclassification did not have an impact on previously reported net (loss) income or net (loss) income per share, total equity and total assets. Significant Developments During 2014 and Early 2015 Claim Construction Hearing in Finjan, Inc. v. Sophos Inc. On March 2, 2015, the Honorable William H. Orrick entered his Order construing disputed claim terms in four of the eight asserted patents in the Finjan, Inc. v. Sophos Inc. matter, Case No. 14-cv-01197-WHO, which was filed on March 14, 2014, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The parties had agreed that only five claim terms (or claim elements) from the asserted patents: U.S. Patent Nos. 6,677,494; 7,613,926; 7,613,918; and 6,154,844 required the Courts construction. Of these five terms, the Court adopted each and every one of Finjans constructions. There were no disputed claim terms from the other four asserted patents: U.S. Patent Nos. 6,804,780; 7,757,289; 8,141,154; and 8,566,580. The asserted patents cover endpoint security, web and messaging security, and networking and perimeter defense technologies. New Headquarters On March 1, 2015, we transitioned our headquarters from New York, New York to 2000 University Avenue, Suite 600, East Palo Alto, CA 94303. See Item 2. Properties. Converted Organics On December 4, 2014, we sold our wholly-owned subsidiary, Converted Organics of California, LLC, through which we operated our organic fertilizer business, to the CO Purchaser. The sale was effected pursuant to a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, dated December 4, 2014, among the Company, the CO Purchaser and, for purposes of certain provisions, Steven McShane. In accordance with the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, at the closing, the CO Purchaser paid us $675,000 in cash. As a result of the sale of Converted Organics, we no longer operate an organic fertilizer business. The CO Purchaser is a newly-formed company in which McShane, the acting manager of our Converted Organics prior to the sale, owns a minority interest. Except for our relationship with McShane, none of us, our officers, directors or affiliates has any relationship with the CO Purchaser. The amount of consideration payable to us in connection with the transaction was determined by arms-length negotiations between us and the CO Purchaser, and not pursuant to any specific formula or principle. The Membership Interest Purchase Agreement contained customary representations and warrants made by the CO Purchaser, McShane and the Company, including, but not limited to, representations and warranties by us with respect to the capitalization, financial condition, liabilities, tax matters and legal proceedings of, or relating to, Converted Organics. We and the CO Purchaser also agreed to indemnify one another for breaches of representations, warranties and covenants contained in the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, subject to certain limitations contained in the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement. Appointment of CFO; Executive Employment Agreements On November 11, 2014, Michael D. Noonan was appointed our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. In connection with Mr. Noonans appointment as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, the Company and Mr. Noonan entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated November 11, 2014. We also entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated January 14, 2015, with Philip Hartstein, our President and Chief Executive Officer. 30 Commencement of Trading on NASDAQ On May 12, 2014, the Companys common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the trading symbol FNJN. Appointments of New Directors On April 4, 2014, three new members, Glenn Daniel, Harry Kellogg and Michael Southworth, were appointed to our Board of Directors. All three new Board members qualify as independent directors. New Patent On March 18, 2014, our subsidiary, Finjan, was issued a U.S. Patent No. 8,677,494 (the 494 Patent). The 494 Patent relates to proprietary malicious mobile code runtime monitoring systems and methods, designed to address potential network security threats through better recognition of malicious code segments passing through Internet infrastructure and networks to endpoint devices. The techniques described in the 494 Patent cover protection systems and methods offering security for one or more personal computers and/or other intermittently or persistently network accessible devices or processes. Specifically, the inventive aspects of the patent cover various defenses from undesirable or otherwise malicious operations of Java TN applets, ActiveX controls, JavaScript scripts, Visual Basic scripts, add-ins, and downloaded/uploaded programs which are often downloaded by users without considering the inherent security risks. Patent Litigations See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Industry Trends and Outlook We believe that 2015 will be an active year for patent law reform. We believe that proponents of patent law reform, largely made up of individual or coalitions of powerful technology corporations, are, at its core, seeking severe statutory limitations on how companies specifically those who own patents and do not make product covered by such patents can enforce their patents against companies who make products. The U.S. Congress is considering proposals from all constituents. In an effort to ensure fair and balanced protections for all good faith patent owners, our executives have dedicated time and resources to actively educate our lawmakers and existing and prospective stakeholders on how certain proposed reforms could harm individual inventors, startups, small companies, the licensing industry and therefore, U.S. innovation and the U.S. economy as a whole. Further, since the enactment of the American Invents Act ("AIA") on September 16, 2011, several aspects of the patent law have been interpreted by the courts, including what constitutes patentable subject matter, inducement of infringement, and (attorney) fee-shifting to the non-prevailing party in the context of litigation, among other issues. Moreover, under AIA, patents previously granted by the USPTO may be reviewed through post-patent grant proceedings such as reexamination or IPRs. It is becoming a trend, if not a practice, for accused infringers to petition for reexaminations or inter partes review of asserted patents as these proceedings may give the petitioner two bites at the apple. The outcome of the proceedings can range from decisions favorable to the patent holder, favorable to both parties, or favorable to the petitioner. If the outcome is the latter, the value of the challenged patent can be materially reduced or extinguished. Thus, patent rights, including enforcement of such rights against unauthorized use is inherently subject to uncertainties. We also believe cybersecurity issues will be a very active sector in 2015. Cybersecurity is not just another technology but a critical business issue that intersects government, corporations and individual citizens. We have recently seen a number of successful cybersecurity breaches targeting high profile victims. The full extent of the cost and damage associated with these attacks may not be know for some time. Nonetheless, these attacks are expected to continue and significantly increase, along with their associated and sometimes unprecedented costs. In many cases, it is not just the government or corporation that suffers losses or damages but their clients and customers, who can also fall victim. These issues have forced both government and corporations to take a serious look at their vulnerabilities, which will led to increased spending on cybersecurity infrastructure, including hardware and software, as well as cybersecurity consulting services. 31 Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuations of Income, Expenses and Cash Flows Related to Licensing and Enforcement Our licenses and judgments may not be recurring, and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until the terms are fixed and determinable or litigation is finalized (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants, and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business, our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. Public Company Expenses As a result of the Merger, Finjan became a public company on June 3, 2013, and our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market in May 2014. Finjans operating results as a private company do not reflect certain increased expenses that we incur, and will continue to incur, as a public company with listed securities, including legal and accounting fees and other general and administrative expenses related to, among other things, establishing and maintaining more comprehensive compliance and governance functions, establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and complying with federal securities laws. We have also incurred additional costs associated with compensation of non-employee directors and costs associated with the retention of full-time executives, employees and consultants to operate our web and network cybersecurity technology business and to comply with our obligations as a public company. In addition, the cost of director and officer liability insurance has increased compared to costs incurred by Finjan prior to becoming a public company. Any of the foregoing costs could continue to increase as we pursue our growth strategy. In light of these costs and the changes in our management, business and growth strategy that resulted from the Merger, the costs that we incurred prior to the Merger may not be indicative of the costs we incur as a post-Merger public company and will continue to incur in the future. Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation Since the Merger, our Board of Directors has adopted the Finjan Holdings, Inc. 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2014 Plan), which our shareholders approved at our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders on July 10, 2014, pursuant to which 2,196,836 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance. A total of 374,504 restricted stock units and 25,000 stock options are outstanding as of December 31, 2014 under the 2014 Plan. An additional 1,476,887 options remain outstanding as of December 31, 2014 under the Finjan Holdings, Inc. 2013 Global Share Option Plan and Israeli Sub-Plan (the 2013 Option Plan). We expect that future equity-based awards will be made under the 2014 Plan to our directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods that may not be comparable to past periods. Since the Merger, we have significantly increased the number of our employees to help execute our strategy in the web and network cybersecurity business and support our public company functions, and expect to hire additional employees in both capacities. Accordingly, we will continue to incur compensation expenses in future periods that Finjan did not incur during the historical period presented in its financial statements. 32 Financing Activities and Other One-Time Events Prior to the Merger In connection with the Merger, we redeemed, cancelled or otherwise retired all of the notes and derivative securities previously issued by Converted Organics, Inc., other than warrants that were exercisable for a de minimis number of shares of our common stock, and which, on October 14, 2014, expired. Until May 2, 2013, Finjan was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finjan Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation, which we refer to as FSI. In April 2013, Finjan distributed securities of two unaffiliated entities which it previously held to FSI, and made a payment of cash in an amount sufficient to repay and satisfy in full an intercompany loan from FSI to Finjan. Following that distribution, the Board of Directors and stockholders of FSI approved the dissolution of, and a plan of liquidation for, FSI that resulted in, among other things, the distribution of Finjan common stock to certain of FSIs stockholders, each of whom received shares of our common stock in the Merger. These one-time events have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. Results of Operations Continuing Operations We continue to operate our web and network cybersecurity technology business by granting licenses to our patented technologies and obtaining settlements reached from enforcement programs. The Company does not grant, at this time, technology or software end-user licenses. Year ended December 31, 2014 compared with the year ended December 31, 2013 We recognized approximately $5.0 million of revenue from continuing operations during the year ended December 31, 2014. We did not recognize any revenue in 2013. Our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 was derived from a license agreement that we entered into on September 24, 2014 with a third-party against whom we had filed a patent infringement lawsuit. Pursuant to this agreement, we agreed to dismiss the infringement litigation, and each party gave the other a general release for all claims that it might have against the other, known or unknown, based on the actions of either party on or before the date of the settlement. Under the license agreement, we are entitled to receive a license fee of $8 million payable in four installments. The first installment of $3 million was paid upon execution of the agreement and filing of the dismissal with prejudice, the second installment of $2 million was received on January 16, 2015, the third installment of $2 million is payable on or before January 15, 2016, and the fourth and final installment of $1 million is payable on or before January 13, 2017. We recognized approximately $5.0 million of the $8.0 million license fee as revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. We did not enter into any license agreements during 2013. We incurred operating expenses of approximately $13.8 million and $7.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our operating expenses consisted primarily of legal fees and general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation, consulting and other professional fees. During the year ended December 31, 2014, total operating expenses increased by approximately $6.8 million, or 97%, to $13.8 million, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. The increased costs were primarily due to a $4.0 million increase in costs incurred in relation to pending litigation, approximately a $0.9 million increase related to consultancy costs, and a $0.4 million increase in corporate legal expenses. The Company also hired new employees during the second half of 2013 and during 2014, resulting in increased salaries and benefits of approximately $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2014, as compared to the prior fiscal year. We recognized other income of approximately $1.0 million in each of the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. Other income was derived primarily from gain on settlements. Our gain on settlements, net of legal costs, of approximately $1.0 million during each of the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 represented the second and third of three equal installment payments payable from one of the two parties in the 2010 Litigation. Our interest income decreased by less than $0.1 million, or 41%, to approximately $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest income decreased due to the lower average cash balance on hand during 2014, as compared to 2013. 33 Our income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2014 decreased $0.27 million, or 102%, to a tax expense of $0.01 million, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013, due to change in the valuation of the deferred tax assets on disposal of Converted Organics during the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013. Year ended December 31, 2013 compared with the year ended December 31, 2012 We did not have any revenues or cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2013, total operating expenses increased by approximately $4.3 million, or 154%, to $7.0 million, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. Our operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 consisted primarily of legal fees, general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation, consulting and other professional fees, and transaction costs associated with the Merger. The increased costs were primarily due to $2.6 million incurred in relation to pending litigation, approximately $0.8 million related to the one-time merger transaction costs, $0.8 million in corporate legal expenses, $0.2 million in accounting and consulting fees and $0.1 million in stock registration fees and various other costs related to being a public company. The Company also hired new employees in 2013 resulting in increased salaries and benefits of approximately $0.6 million. Our gain on settlements, net of legal costs decreased by approximately $76.4 million, or 99%, to $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. The decrease was primarily due to our entry into settlements in 2012 with two of the parties in the 2010 Litigation. Pursuant to such settlements, in 2012, we received net proceeds of approximately $76.5 million (gross proceeds of $85.0 million less contingent legal fees of $8.5 million) from one of the defendants and $1.0 million in cash proceeds (representing the first of three equal installment payments payable over 18 months from the date of settlement) and securities with a fair value as of the settlement date of approximately $8.4 million from the second defendant. In 2013, we received the second installment payment of $1.0 million. The remaining amounts due under the litigation settlement will be recognized when payment is received, as collectability is not reasonably assured. Our other income decreased by approximately $3.1 million, or 100%, to less than $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. The decrease was due to securities received in exchange for modifying a perpetual license agreement originally entered into on November 2, 2009 with a fair value of approximately $3.1 million during 2012. Our interest income decreased by less than $0.1 million, or 7%, to approximately $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. Interest income decreased due to the lower average cash balance on hand during 2013, as compared to 2012. The significant fluctuation in our income for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to our income for the 2012 fiscal year, reflects the fact that our settlements are non-recurring and, as a result, income for these periods is not necessarily indicative of the income we will achieve in the future. Our income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2013 decreased $27.1 million, or 103%, to a tax benefit of $0.3 million, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012, due to limited cumulative taxable operations of the Company in certain local jurisdictions compared to the same period in 2012. Discontinued Operations Our board of directors approved the sale of Converted Organics in 2014. Results from the sale have been reported as discontinued operations because we no longer have any significant continuing involvement with, or cash flows from, this segment. Loss from the discontinuation of Converted Organics was: For the Years Ended December 31 2014 2013 Revenue 1,300 744 Expenses (1,623 ) (1,223 ) Loss from discontinued operation (323 ) (479 ) 34 Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expect to continue devoting significant capital resources to the litigations in process and any other litigation we pursue. We also expect to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy, and attract and retain qualified personnel on a full-time basis. In addition, on November 21, 2013, we made a $5 million commitment to invest in an Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund seeking to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies, of which $4 million remains outstanding. The fund can make a call on our remaining $4 million commitment at any time until 2018. We expect to make payments to honor this commitment if and when capital calls are made by the fund. We have sufficient cash on hand to fund such obligations. The Company leases corporate headquarters in Silicon Valley, and offices in New York, New York and Menlo Park, California. Under the terms of the three leases, the Company owes minimum lease obligations of $2.6 million over the life of the leases, of which $1.5 million is for the Silicon Valley headquarters lease. All operations and personnel at the existing Menlo Park office relocated to 2000 University Avenue during the first quarter of 2015. All operations and personnel at our New York office will transition to the Silicon Valley office on June 30, 2015. The Company will seek to sublease the Menlo Park office for the remaining duration of the lease. Similarly, the Company will seek to sublease the New York office for the remaining duration of the lease, once the transition is complete. The Company expects to pay $0.3 million in lease payments for the Silicon Valley headquarters over the next 12 months. If we are unsuccessful in subleasing the New York and Menlo Park offices, the Company would additionally pay $0.3 million in lease payments for the New York and Menlo Park offices over the next 12 months. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally historical and future proceeds from licenses, settlements and judgments in connection with our patent enforcement and licensing activities. On September 24, 2014, Finjan entered into a licensing agreement that provides for installment payments through January 13, 2017. The amount and timing of cash flows from our licensing and enforcement activities are subject to uncertainties stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the success of our licensing efforts and the outcome of enforcement actions. As a result, our income and cash flows may vary significantly from period to period. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $17.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and $17.1 million of working capital. The decrease in our cash and cash equivalents of approximately $7.1 million from $24.6 million is primarily attributable to approximately $10.8 million used in operations and $0.5 million capital call from the venture capital fund the company invests in offset by approximately $3 million received from a license agreement and $0.7 million from the sale of Converted Organics. Based on current forecasts and assumptions, management believes that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. Even without such difficulties, we may seek to raise additional capital to grow our business. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2014 Operating Activities : Finjans net cash used in operating activities decreased by $25.4 million, or 77%, to $7.4 million of cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2014, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we used cash of approximately $25.3 million to pay income taxes. Taxes paid during the year ended December 31, 2014 were not material. Investing activities : During the year ended December 31, 2014, our investing activities provided approximately $0.15 million, as compared to $0.03 million of cash used by investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2013. Cash used by investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily related to the $0.5 million cash call by the Israeli limited liability partnership in which the Company has invested. This was offset by proceeds of $0.7 million from the sale of Converted Organics. 35 Financing activities : During the year ended December 31, 2014, we used approximately $0.13 million in financing activities, as compared to $34.1 million used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2013. The decrease in cash used in financing activities is primarily attributable to the repayment of $33.9 million of intercompany indebtedness due to FSI during the year ended December 31, 2013. Cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2013 Operating Activities : Finjans net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $100.3 million, or 149%, to $32.8 million of cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. Such decrease is primarily attributable to Finjans receipt of approximately $77.5 million of cash proceeds as a result of a settlement, net of contingency fees, and an installment payment related to the settlement agreement entered into by the Company during 2012, partially offset by $2.8 million of legal costs and general and administrative expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we used cash of approximately $25.3 million related to the payment of income taxes. The significant fluctuation in our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013, as compared to our cash flows from operating activities for the 2012 fiscal year, reflects the fact that our settlements are non-recurring and, as a result, cash flows from operating activities for these periods are not necessarily indicates of the income we will achieve in the future. Investing activities : During the year ended December 31, 2013, we used approximately $0.03 million in investing activities, as compared to $1.3 million of cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2012. Cash provided by investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily related to the $0.52 million of proceeds from notes receivable acquired through the Merger, which was offset by an investment of $0.5 million in an Israeli limited liability partnership. Cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2012 related to our purchase of M86 securities which, were distributed to FSI during 2013, prior to the Merger. Financing activities : During the year ended December 31, 2013, we used approximately $34.1 million in financing activities, as compared to $2.5 million used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2012. The increase in cash used in financing activities is primarily attributable to the repayment of $33.9 million of intercompany indebtedness due to FSI during the year ended December 31, 2013. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2014, the Company's contractual obligations for the next five years and thereafter: Payments due by Period (In thousands) Contractual Obligations Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years Total Operating Lease Obligations: $ 630 $ 1,507 $ 459 $ - $ 2,596 Other Long-Term Liabilities: Capital Commitments not Called 1,000 3,000 - - 4,000 Total $ 1,630 $ 4,507 $ 459 $ - $ 6,596 36 Subsequent to December 31, 2014, the Company signed a sublease agreement dated January 7, 2015, pursuant to which the Company will sublease office space in Palo Alto, California through September 30, 2018 as its new corporate headquarters. From the commencement date, the Company owes an initial annual rent of $424,536, payable in equal monthly installments, unless earlier terminated by either party in accordance with the lease. The annual rental rate is subject to an approximately 3.0% increase at each anniversary of the commencement date during the term. These lease payments are not reflected in the table above. The aggregate future minimum payments related to the lease is approximately $1.5 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, warranties and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and our revenue recognition. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and the impact of such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Critical accounting policies are those policies that, in managements view, are most important in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our financial statements. These critical accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Those critical accounting policies and estimates that require the most significant judgment are discussed further below. We consider our most critical accounting policies and estimates to be revenue recognition, gain on settlements, valuation of long lived assets, stock based compensation and accounting for business combinations-acquisition method accounting. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery of the product or service has occurred and all obligations have been performed pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Depending on the complexity of the underlying revenue arrangement and related terms and conditions, significant judgments, assumptions and estimates may be required to determine when substantial delivery of contract elements has occurred, whether any significant ongoing obligations exist subsequent to contract execution, whether amounts due are collectible and the appropriate period or periods in which, or during which, the completion of the earnings process occurs. Depending on the magnitude of specific revenue arrangements, if different judgments, assumptions and estimates are made regarding contracts executed in any specific period, our periodic financial results may be materially affected. Monetization of patented technologies by licensing through a negotiated agreement and/or enforcement of such patented technologies by a court of law is the main source of our income. Licenses achieved by ordinary business negotiations where a fair value of the license is determined by the Company is recognized as revenue. Due to our unique business, it is often necessary to file patent infringement litigation against users of our patented technologies as part of the licensing and enforcement activities. We may enter into certain settlements of patent infringement disputes once litigation commences. The amount of consideration received upon any settlement or judgment is allocated to each element of the settlement based on the fair value of each element using the residual method. Elements with fair values related to licensing agreement, royalty revenues, net of contingent legal fees, are recognized as revenue. When the Company is unable to determine the fair value of a license agreement or a settlement, the value of the license agreement or settlement is recognized as contra expense or gain on settlements in other income. Gain on Settlements Elements that are not related to license agreements and royalty revenue in nature will be reflected as a separate line item within the other income section of the consolidated statements of operations as gain on settlement. Elements provided in either settlement agreements or judgment include: the value of a license, legal release, and interest. When settlements or judgment are achieved at discounts to the fair value of a license, the Company allocates the full settlement or judgment, excluding specifically named element as mentioned above, to the value of the license under the residual accounting method. Legal release as part of a settlement agreement is recognized as a separate line item in the consolidated statement of operations when value can be allocated to legal release. Ordinarily, when the Company reaches a settlement with a defendant, no value is allocated to legal release since the existence of a settlement removes legal standing to bring a claim of infringement and without legal a legal claim, legal release has no economic value. The element that is applicable to interest income is recorded as a separate line item in other income. 37 We make estimates and judgments when determining whether the collectability of fees receivable from licensees is reasonably assured. We assess the collectability of fees receivable based on a number of factors, including past transaction history and the credit-worthiness of licensees. If it is determined that collection is not reasonably assured, the fee is recognized when collectability becomes reasonably assured, assuming all other income recognition criteria have been met, which is generally upon receipt of cash for transactions where collectability may have been an issue. Managements estimates regarding collectability impact the actual income recognized each period and the timing of the recognition of income. Our assumptions and judgments regarding future collectability could differ from actual events and thus materially impact our financial position and results of operations. In general, our income arrangements provide for the payment of contractually determined fees in consideration for the grant of certain intellectual property rights for patented technologies owned or controlled by us. These rights typically include some combination of the following: (i) the grant of a non-exclusive, retroactive and future license to manufacture and/or sell products covered by patented technologies owned or controlled by our operating subsidiaries, (ii) a covenant-not-to-sue, (iii) the release of the licensee from certain claims, and (iv) the dismissal of any pending litigation. The intellectual property rights granted may be perpetual in nature, extending until the expiration of the related patents, or can be granted for a defined, relatively short period of time, with the licensee possessing the right to renew the agreement at the end of each contractual term for an additional minimum upfront payment. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, we have no further obligation with respect to the grant of the non-exclusive retroactive and future licenses, covenants-not-to-sue, releases, and other deliverables, including no express or implied obligation on our part to maintain or upgrade the technologies, or provide future support or services. As such, the earnings process is complete and income is recognized upon the execution of the agreement, when collectability is reasonably assured and when all other income recognition criteria have been met. Income from licenses issued through negotiated agreement with the licensee is recognized when the arrangement with the licensee has been signed and the license has been delivered and made effective, provided license fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Income from settlements reached on legal enforcement of our patent rights and the release of the licensee from certain legal claims, is recognized on receipt of the settlement amounts. Stock-based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation payments to employees, non-employee consultants and directors are recognized as expense in the statements of income. The compensation cost for all stock-based awards is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award (determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model for stock options and intrinsic value on the date of grant for non-vested restricted stock), and is recognized as an expense over the employees requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the equity award). Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires significant estimates and judgments, including estimating the market price volatility of our common stock, future employee stock option exercise behavior and requisite service periods. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded only for those awards expected to vest using an estimated pre-vesting forfeiture rate. As such, we are required to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures at the time of grant and reflect the impact of estimated pre-vesting option forfeitures on compensation expense recognized. Estimates of pre-vesting forfeitures must be periodically revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We consider several factors in connection with our estimate of pre-vesting forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical pre-vesting forfeiture data. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results differ from our estimates, such amounts will be recorded as cumulative adjustments in the period the estimates are revised. The Company granted options to a small number of employees and consultants. Approximately 8.6% of stock options granted were forfeited during the year ended December 31, 2014 due to employee termination and retirement. This forfeiture rate was used in calculating the stock-compensation expense. The Company will continue to monitor its expectations on an ongoing basis and revise this assumption as future circumstances dictate. 38 If actual results differ significantly from these assumption, stock-based compensation expense and our results of operations could be materially impacted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to continue as a Going Concern, which provides guidance on determining when and how to disclose going-concern uncertainties in the financial statements. The new standard requires management to perform interim and annual assessments of an entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year of the date the financial statements are issued. An entity must provide certain disclosures if conditions or events raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern. The ASU applies to all entities and is effective for annual periods ending after December 15, 2016, and interim periods thereafter, with early adoption permitted. On June 19, 2014, Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued ASU No. 2014-12, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Accounting for Share-Based Payments when the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service Period . This ASU requires that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. This update further clarifies that compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the period(s) for which the requisite service has already been rendered. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015. Earlier adoption is permitted. The adoption of this standard is expected not to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09) , which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled to when products and services are transferred to customers. ASU 2014-09 will be effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of 2018. Early adoption is not permitted. The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting the new revenue standard on its consolidated financial statements. In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-08, Presentation of Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360) Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity . The amendment changes the criteria for reporting discontinued operations while enhancing disclosures in this area. Under the new guidance, only disposals representing a strategic shift in operations should be presented as discontinued operations. Those strategic shifts should have a major effect on the organizations operations and financial results. Examples include a disposal of a major geographic area, a major line of business, or a major equity method investment. This ASU is effective in the first quarter of 2015 and we are currently evaluating the impact of adopting the new standard on its consolidated financial statements. Other recent accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by FASB or other standards-setting bodies that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements upon adoption. 39