ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to, those set forth under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is organized as follows: Overview. A discussion of our business and overall analysis of financial and other highlights in order to provide context for the remainder of MD&A. Significant Developments . We highlight significant developments in our business and operations during the past year. Industry Trends & Outlook . A discussion of notable industry trends and how such trends might affect our business and operations as well as an outlook on developments we see on the horizon. Comparability to Future Results. We discuss areas of our historical business and operations that may not be indicative of future results. Results of Operations. A discussion of the nature and trends in our financial results and an analysis of our financial results comparing fiscal 2016 to 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our balance sheets and cash flows, and a discussion of our financial condition and our ability to meet cash needs. Contractual Obligations. An overview of our contractual obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2016, including expected payment schedules. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. A discussion of our accounting policies that require critical estimates, assumptions, and judgments. Recent Accounting Pronouncements. A discussion of expected impacts of impending accounting changes on financial information to be reported in the future. 34 Table of Contents Overview We operate a cybersecurity business, focused on licensing and enforcement, developing mobile security applications, providing advisory services, and investing in emerging cybersecurity technologies and intellectual property. We operate our cybersecurity business through subsidiaries including, Finjan, Finjan Mobile and CybeRisk. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents, related to software and hardware technologies that proactively detect malicious code and thereby protect end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other web and network threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented technologies that are capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based, basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers. The older signature-based methods, were standard in the web and network security industry during the 1990s. As the web and endpoint security industries - known as cybersecurity - have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that our patented technologies continue to be widely used by third parties in a number of market segments. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of our technologies through further licensing and to broaden our technologies and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. As a core element of our continued patent licensing and enforcement business, our management team, having expertise with technology and IP monetization, monitors a number of markets and assesses and observes the adoption of our patented technologies in these markets. Our management team, in conjunction with outside legal, technical, and financial experts concludes on a case-by-case basis whether or not they believe that Finjans patented technologies are being used. Based on these observations, we continue to believe our patented technologies are highly relevant in specific cybersecurity technology areas including, but not limited to endpoint/cloud software, web gateway/internet infrastructure, networking equipment markets, and mobile security. From that basis, the Company pursues unlicensed entities through licensing, assertion of claims or both to preserve the value of our portfolio in general. This also reinforces the value to existing licensees of the Finjan patent portfolio. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2009, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the enforcement of its patent rights against unauthorized use and, to a lesser extent, income derived from intellectual property licenses granted to third parties for the use of patented technologies that are owned by Finjan. Finjan Mobile was founded to ensure that mobile devices are protected against spies, phishing and malware attacks. Given the uptrend in mobile device usage coupled with the amount of transient corporate data, the average mobile user presents and represents higher risks of data loss through hacking. The consumer mobile device has become so convenient that consumers often forget about online security and download apps and blindly agree to terms of service, purchase products, pay bills, connect to free Wi-Fi, and not think twice about personal data and photos stored on their devices. As such, in June of 2015, the Company returned to the research and development world with the creation of security products for mobile devices. CybeRisk was founded in 2015 to deliver global advanced cyber risk and cyber security advisory services. Through a team of employees and consultants, based in East Palo Alto and Tel Aviv, CybeRisk assesses corporate risk exposure and delivers appropriate mitigation strategies. Its unique and focused offering positions CybeRisk as the piece that interconnects the "server room to the board room". As of December 31, 2016, we had 12 employees. We intend to hire or engage additional full-time professionals, employees, and/or consultants in alignment with our growth strategy. Although the market is highly competitive for attracting and retaining highly qualified professionals in our industry, we continue our endeavor to find such candidates for our Company. Our management team and additional personnel that we may hire in the future will be primarily responsible for executing and implementing our licensing and enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and enforcement opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing cybersecurity technologies and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. 35 Table of Contents Significant Developments During 2016 and Early 2017 Equity Raise of $10.2 Million in Series A Preferred Stock On May 6, 2016, Finjan Holdings entered into a Series A Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement with Halcyon LDRII, pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue to Halcyon LDRII in a private placement an aggregate of 102,000 shares of the Companys Series A Preferred Stock at a purchase price of $100.00 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $10.2 million. Finjan Mobile Launched Gen3 Mobile Secure Browser, VitalSecurity TM In 2016 Finjan Mobile, Inc. launched Gen3 Mobile Secure Browser, VitalSecurity TM , a fully functional browser that offers protection for both mobile and tablet devices. Using VitalSecurity TM , users can safely browse the internet and be warned that sites might contain malicious or suspicious content. For the IOS and Android operating systems, Finjan Mobile VitalSecurity Browser educates users by identifying potential vulnerabilities on websites. The app can identify URLs that have been flagged by industry leading cyber companies and protect you from viruses and malicious content. The Gen3.5 mobile secure browser is completely redesigned and is built from Finjans patented technology. The browser features: Complete browser functionality Protection against potential phishing attacks Detailed analysis from top cyber companies Private browsing functionality to guard privacy using private tabs Touch ID and Passcode security to protect your browsing experience Support for Tabs, Bookmarks and History Complete tracker transparency by alerting you of all advertising, social, content and analytic scripts that are embedded in websites you visit Type in a search term and Finjan Mobile VitalSecurity will scan search results and present informative notifications - Safe, Caution or Danger. If a site is considered dangerous, you can choose to click and go right to the website, or learn about potential privacy and phishing vulnerabilities. Educating users on privacy and potential vulnerabilities is our main objective. New Patents On March 22, 2016, our subsidiary, Finjan, was issued U.S. Patent No. 9,294,493 (493 Patent). The 493 Patent relates to protection against malicious program code that is injected via input parameters to function calls. On September 13, 2016, our subsidiary, Finjan, was issued U.S. Patent No. 9,444,844. The 9,444,844 Patent relates to proprietary malicious mobile code runtime monitoring systems and methods, designed to address potential network security threats through better recognition of malicious code segments passing through Internet infrastructure and networks to endpoint devices. The techniques described in the 9,444,844 Patent cover protection systems and methods offering security for one or more personal computers and/or other intermittently or persistently network accessible devices or processes. Specifically, the inventive aspects of the patent cover various defenses from malicious or otherwise undesirable operations of Java applets, ActiveX controls, JavaScript scripts, Visual Basic scripts, add-ons, and other programs which are downloaded by users without considering their inherent security risks. On October 5, 2016, our subsidiary, Finjan, was issued European Patent No. EP 1 810 152 B1 (EP B1 Patent). The patent relates to parsing an incoming stream of mobile code, as the stream is being received, to discover potential exploits within the mobile code. On December 20, 2016, our subsidiary, Finjan, was issued U.S. Patent No. 9,525,680 (680 Patent). The 680 Patent relates to secure communication between a client and a server computer using certificates, even when a non-secure computer intermediates between the client and the server. On January 24, 2017, our subsidiary, Finjan Mobile received its first US patent, U.S. Patent No. 9,554,279. The patent relates to authorizing a mobile device to access a secure server based in part on whether the mobile device is currently located within an authorized geographical area. 36 Table of Contents Inter Partes Reviews See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Patent litigations See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Industry Trends and Outlook We believe that 2017 might be an active year for patent law reform although intellectual property did not seem to be a key issue during the presidential election cycle. We believe that proponents of patent law reform, largely made up of individual or coalitions of powerful technology corporations continue to seek severe statutory limitations on how companies specifically those who own patents and do not make product covered by such patents can enforce their patents against companies who make products. The U.S. Congress is considering proposals from all constituents. In an effort to ensure fair and balanced protections for all good faith patent owners, our executives have dedicated time and resources to actively educate our lawmakers and existing and prospective stakeholders on how certain proposed reforms could harm individual inventors, startups, small companies, the licensing industry and therefore, U.S. innovation and the U.S. economy as a whole. Further, since the enactment of the AIA on September 16, 2011, several aspects of the patent law have been interpreted by the courts, including what constitutes patentable subject matter, inducement of infringement, and (attorney) fee-shifting to the non-prevailing party in the context of litigation, among other issues. Moreover, under AIA, patents previously granted by the USPTO may be reviewed through post-patent grant proceedings such as reexamination or IPR. It has become a trend, if not a practice, for accused infringers to petition for reexaminations or IPRs of asserted patents as these proceedings may give the petitioner two bites at the apple. The outcome of the proceedings can range from decisions favorable to the patent holder, favorable to both parties, or favorable to the petitioner. If the outcome is the latter, the value of the challenged patent can be materially reduced or extinguished. Thus, patent rights, including enforcement of such rights against unauthorized use is inherently subject to uncertainties. We also believe cybersecurity issues will again be a very active sector in 2017. Cybersecurity is not just another technology but a critical business issue that intersects government, corporations and individual citizens. We have recently seen a number of devastatingly successful cybersecurity breaches targeting high profile government offices and corporations. The full extent of the cost and damage associated with these attacks may not be known for some time. Nonetheless, these attacks are expected to continue, along with their associated and sometimes unprecedented costs. In many cases, it is not just the government or corporation that suffers losses or damages but their clients and customers, who can also fall victim by the breach of their personal and otherwise confidential data. These issues have forced both government and corporations to take a serious look at their vulnerabilities, which will lead to increased spending on cybersecurity infrastructure, including hardware and software, as well as cybersecurity consulting services. Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuations of Income, Expenses and Cash Flows Related to Licensing and Enforcement Our licenses and judgments may not be recurring, and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until the terms are fixed and determinable or litigation is finalized (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). 37 Table of Contents Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants, and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business, our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation Our Board of Directors has adopted the Finjan Holdings 2014 Incentive Plan (2014 Plan), which our shareholders approved at our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders on July 10, 2014, pursuant to which 2,196,836 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance. A total of 185,260 restricted stock units and 1,607,346 options remain outstanding as of December 31, 2016, under the 2014 Plan. Our Board of Directors recently approved an increase in the number of shares reserved under our 2014 Plan which is subject to approval of our stockholders. Therefore, we expect that future equity-based awards will continue to be made under the 2014 Plan to our directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods that may not be comparable to past periods. We have increased the number of our employees to help execute our strategy in the cybersecurity business and support our public company functions, and expect to hire additional employees in both capacities to continue our growth plans. Accordingly, we will continue to incur compensation expenses in future periods that we did not incur during the historical period presented in our financial statements. Results of Operations We operate a cybersecurity business, focused on licensing and enforcement, providing advisory services, developing mobile security applications, and investing in emerging cybersecurity technologies and intellectual property. Year ended December 31, 2016 compared with the year ended December 31, 2015: For the Years Ended December 31, 2016 % of Revenue 2015 % of Revenue Change % Change (In thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 18,387 $ 4,687 $ 13,700 292 % Cost of revenues 3,037 17 % 814 17 % 2,223 273 % Gross profit 15,350 83 % 3,873 83 % 11,477 296 % Operating expenses: Sales, general and administrative (1) 14,430 78 % 17,367 371 % (2,937 ) (17 )% Research and development 570 3 % 391 8 % 179 46 % Total operating expenses 15,000 82 % 17,758 379 % (2,758 ) (16 )% Other income 1,283 27 % (1,283 ) (100 )% Net income (loss) $ 350 2 % $ (12,602 ) (269 )% 12,952 (103 )% (1) Includes stock based compensation $ 872 5 % $ 766 16 % 106 14 % 38 Table of Contents Revenue in 2016 is derived from multiple license agreements that we entered into with third-parties following negotiations pursuant to our patent licensing and enforcement program. In addition, we have a consulting business started in 2015. Our revenues increased by $13.7 million or by 292%, to $18.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to $4.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase is primarily due to licensing revenues, as further described in "Item 1. Business" - "Licensing and Enforcement - Current Activities, Post 2013". Cost of revenues includes legal fees directly associated with our licensing and enforcement program. Cost of revenues increased 273% for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015, largely in proportion to increased revenues. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues remained consistent in 2016 compared to 2015 at approximately 83%, with gross margin growing 296%, in relation to the increase in revenues. Operating expenses consists of sales and marketing, general and administrative, and research and development. Sales, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A") consisted primarily of legal fees incurred in pursuing our revenues, and employee headcount related expenses. These comprise approximately 70% of total SG&A expense. Litigation expenses decreased $1.7 million to $6.3 million in 2016 compared to 2015, and is primarily due to the timing of various outstanding actions. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings". Employee headcount related expenses remained consistent year over at approximately $4.5 million. In addition, SG&A expenses which include consulting and other professional fees, facilities and other administrative expenses and fees, decreased by over $1 million in 2016 compared to 2015, primarily due to the cost of relocating to California in 2015. Revenues and operations from the Companys Finjan Mobile security business and the Companys CybeRisk advisory services and were deemed immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2016 our other income was $0 compared to $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, due primarily from our gain on investing activities through a liquidity event in a cybertechnology fund. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expect to continue devoting significant capital resources to the litigations in process and any other litigation we pursue. We also expect to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy, and attract and retain qualified personnel on a full-time basis. In addition, on November 21, 2013, we made a $5 million commitment to invest in an innovation fund through JVP to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies, of which $2.7 million of the commitment remains unfunded. The fund can make a call on our remaining commitment at any time. We expect to make payments to honor this commitment if and when capital calls are made by the fund. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand to fund such obligations. The Company leases its corporate headquarters office in East Palo Alto, California and offices in New York, New York, Menlo Park, California and Tel Aviv, Israel. Under the terms of the four leases, the Company owes minimum lease obligations of $1.2 million over the remaining life of the leases, of which $0.8 million is for the East Palo Alto headquarters lease. During 2015 the Company entered into subleases for each of the Menlo Park and New York offices for essentially the remaining duration of the lease. As of December 31, 2016, the total future minimum lease payments to be received under the Menlo Park and New York subleases was $178,000 and $292,000, respectively. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally historical and future proceeds from licenses, settlements and judgments in connection with our patent enforcement and licensing activities. During 2016, Finjan entered into a licensing agreement that provides for installment payments through January, 2018. The amount and timing of cash flows from our licensing and enforcement activities are subject to uncertainties stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the success of our licensing efforts and the outcome of enforcement actions. Thus, our income and cash flows may vary significantly from period to period. 39 Table of Contents For the Years Ended December 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Cash & cash equivalents 13,678 6,101 As of December 31, 2016, we had approximately $13.7 million of cash and cash equivalents, an increase of approximately $7.6 million from $6.1 million in 2015. This is primarily attributable to the $6.8 million in net cash provided by financing activities, $1.3 million in net cash provided operating activities, offset by $0.6 million in net cash used in investing activities. Based on current forecasts, management believes that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months from the date of filing this annual report. Such forecasts include approximately $9.7 million received subsequent to year end as described in Note 15 of our consolidated financial statements and $3.3 million of licensing revenue to be received by January 3, 2018 under existing contracts. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. To insure against any such difficulties, we may raise additional capital to fund licensing and enforcement actions, planned research and development activities and to better solidify our financial position. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Further, if the Company is unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, the Company may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of its business plans. Cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 For the Years Ended December 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 1,328 (11,259 ) Net cash used in investing activities (559 ) (199 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 6,808 54 Operating Activities : Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and is comprised of $0.4 million in net income, $0.9 million in stock-based compensation, $0.1 million in depreciation, offset by $0.1 million change in net operating assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $11.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. This is comprised of a net loss of $12.6 million and a $1.3 million return on investment, offset by $0.8 million in stock-based compensation and $1.8 million change in net operating assets and liabilities. Investing Activities : During the year ended December 31, 2016, cash used by investing activities primarily related to the $0.6 million cash call by JVP. During the year ended December 31, 2015, cash used by investing activities primarily related to the $0.8 million cash call by JVP and $0.2 million related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment, offset by proceeds of $0.8 million in cash from the exit of one of JVP's portfolio companies. Financing Activities : During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash provided by financing activities was $6.8 million and an immaterial amount for same period in 2015. Cash provided by financing activities of $6.8 million during 2016 primarily resulted from the Series A Preferred Stock Financing in May 2016 of $6.7 million, net comprised of the initial financing of $9.5 million, net, offset by subsequent redemptions of $2.8 million. Redemptions are tied, at the option of the holder, to future proceeds as defined in the Certificate of Designation. In addition, the financing is subject to dividends accreted to the investors over time; a portion of the redemptions are applied to this accretion. Finally, $0.1 million of the net cash provided by financing activities was proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 40 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2016, the Company's contractual obligations over the next two years for the property leases entered into during the years ended 2015, 2014, and 2013, and the Company's investment in JVP: Payments due by Period (In thousands) Contractual Obligations Less Than 1 Year 1-2 Years Total Operating Lease Obligations: $ 753 $ 459 $ 1,212 Other Long-Term Liabilities: Capital Commitments not Called 750 1,950 2,700 Total $ 1,503 $ 2,409 $ 3,912 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, warranties and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and our revenue recognition. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and the impact of such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Critical accounting policies are those policies that, in managements view, are most important in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our financial statements. These critical accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Those critical accounting policies and estimates that require the most significant judgment are discussed further below. We consider our most critical accounting policies and estimates to be revenue recognition, gain on settlements, valuation of long lived assets, stock based compensation and accounting for business combinations-acquisition method accounting. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery of the product or service has occurred and all obligations have been performed pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Depending on the complexity of the underlying revenue arrangement and related terms and conditions, significant judgments, assumptions and estimates may be required to determine when substantial delivery of contract elements has occurred, whether any significant ongoing obligations exist subsequent to contract execution, whether amounts due are collectible and the appropriate period or periods in which, or during which, the completion of the earnings process occurs. Depending on the magnitude of specific revenue arrangements, if different judgments, assumptions and estimates are made regarding contracts executed in any specific period, our periodic financial results may be materially affected. 41 Table of Contents Monetization of patented technologies by licensing through a negotiated agreement and/or enforcement of such patented technologies by a court of law is the main source of our income. Licenses achieved by ordinary business negotiations where a fair value of the license is determined by the Company is recognized as revenue. Due to our unique business, it is often necessary to file patent infringement litigation against users of our patented technologies as part of the licensing and enforcement activities. We may enter into certain settlements of patent infringement disputes once litigation commences. The amount of consideration received upon any settlement or judgment is allocated to each element of the settlement based on the fair value of each element using the residual method. Elements with fair values related to licensing agreement, royalty revenues, net of contingent legal fees, are recognized as revenue. When the Company is unable to determine the fair value of a license agreement or a settlement, the value of the license agreement or settlement is recognized as contra expense or gain on settlements in other income. Stock-based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation payments to employees, non-employee consultants and directors are recognized as expense in the statements of income. The compensation cost for all stock-based awards is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award (determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model for stock options and intrinsic value on the date of grant for non-vested restricted stock), and is recognized as an expense over the employees requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the equity award). Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires significant estimates and judgments, including estimating the market price volatility of our common stock, future employee stock option exercise behavior and requisite service periods. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded only for those awards expected to vest using an estimated pre-vesting forfeiture rate. As such, we are required to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures at the time of grant and reflect the impact of estimated pre-vesting option forfeitures on compensation expense recognized. Estimates of pre-vesting forfeitures must be periodically revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We consider several factors in connection with our estimate of pre-vesting forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical pre-vesting forfeiture data. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results differ from our estimates, such amounts will be recorded as cumulative adjustments in the period the estimates are revised. The Company granted options to a small number of employees and consultants. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In connection with the investment in JVP, we have a commitment balance outstanding of approximately $2.7 million, which can be called at any time. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). This ASU is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date, which deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09 to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Subsequently, FASB issued ASUs in 2016 containing implementation guidance related to ASU 2014-09, including: ASU 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) , which is intended to improve the operability and understandability of the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations; ASU 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing , which is intended to clarify two aspects of Topic 606: identifying performance obligations and the licensing implementation guidance; and ASU 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients , which contains certain practical expedients in response to identified implementation issues. The Company expects to adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and apply the modified retrospective approach. The Company is evaluating the impact of adopting this new accounting standard on our consolidated financial statements. In February, 2016, FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02 Leases that requires a lessee to recognize the assets and liabilities that arise from operating leases. A lessee should recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect of the standard on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 42 Table of Contents In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09). The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2016, which for the Company will commence with the year beginning January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted commencing January 1, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the standard to determine the impact of its adoption on the consolidated financial statements. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU No. 2016-15 clarifies and provides specific guidance on eight cash flow classification issues that are not currently addressed by current GAAP and thereby reduce the current diversity in practice. ASU No. 2016-15 is effective for public business entities for annual periods, including interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2017, with early application permitted. This guidance is applicable to the Company's fiscal year beginning January 1, 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the standard to determine the impact of its adoption on the consolidated financial statements. Other recent accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by FASB or other standards-setting bodies that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption.