Item 2. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following discussion includes forward-looking statements about the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations, including discussions about managements expectations for the business. These statements include statements regarding our expectations, intentions, beliefs and projections about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts or by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, potential, should, will, will be, would, and the negative of these terms and similar expressions, but this is not an exclusive way of identifying such statements. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Our actual results, performance and achievements may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, without limitation, our ability to execute our business plan, the outcome of pending or future enforcement actions, our ability to expand our technology portfolio, the enforceability of our patents, the continued use of our technology in the market, the development of a liquid trading market for our securities and other factors described under Item 1A. Risk Factors, as set forth in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, and any subsequent quarterly or current reports. The following discussion should also be read in conjunction with the audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements, and unaudited condensed financial statements including the notes thereto, appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The Company will continue to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the dates specified in such filings. Except as expressly required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after any such date, whether as a result of new information or future events or otherwise. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this report or that may be made elsewhere from time to time by us, or on our behalf. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Overview We operate two businesses, each of which constitutes a separate reportable segment. Our two reportable segments are: our web and network security technology segment, which we operate through Finjan, and our organic fertilizer segment, which we operate through Converted Organics. The results of operations of our organic fertilizer segment have been included in our assets and liabilities and our historical operations since June 3, 2013, the date Converted Organics, Inc. entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Finjan. Effective June 3, 2013 and pursuant to the Merger Agreement, a wholly owned subsidiary merged with and into Finjan and Finjan became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Converted Organics, Inc. (the Merger). Our principal line of business is web and network security technology business. On October 6, 2014, the Board of Directors adopted a resolution authorizing management to pursue the sale of Converted Organics. Management is in the process of negotiating the sale and Converted Organics will be held for sale until the sale is finalized. Web and Network Security Technology Segment We operate our web and network security technology business through Finjan. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents related to software that proactively detects malicious code and thereby protects end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other online threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented cybersecurity technology that is capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers, which were standard in the online security industry during the 1990s. As the network, web and endpoint security industries have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that our technology is widely used by third parties. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of our technology through further licensing and to broaden our technology and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. We do not grant, at this time, technology or software end-user licenses. 14 Table of Contents As a core element of our continued patent licensing and enforcement business, our management team, having expertise in technology and IP monetization, alongside early company executives, monitors a number of markets and assesses and observes the adoption of our patented technology in these markets. Our management team, in conjunction with outside legal, technical, and financial experts determine on a case-by-case basis whether or not they believe that Finjans patented technology is being used. Based on these observations, we continue to believe our patented technologies are relevant in specific technology areas including endpoint/cloud software, web gateway/internet infrastructure, and networking equipment markets. From that basis, we pursue unlicensed entities through licensing, assertion of claims or both. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2008, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the enforcement of its patent rights against unauthorized use and, to a lesser extent, income derived from intellectual property licenses granted to third parties for the use of patented technologies that are owned by Finjan. Finjans operating expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses. Finjan did not have any full-time employees from 2009 until 2013, shortly after the Merger. Instead, Finjan relied on outside legal counsel, technology consultants and other professionals to conduct operations during that period, some of whom are former investors and executives of Finjan. Accordingly, Finjans general and administrative expenses consisted primarily of legal fees and other expenses paid to third-party consultants. As of November 5, 2014, we have approximately 18 employees, most of whom joined the Company following the Merger. We intend to hire or engage additional full-time employees and/or consultants to pursue our growth strategy, although there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified personnel on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our management team and additional personnel that we may hire in the future will be primarily responsible for establishing and pursuing our licensing and enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and enforcement opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing technology and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. We nonetheless expect to continue to utilize outside legal counsel and other professionals to execute aspects of our strategy for the foreseeable future, such as trial counsel to prosecute enforcement actions, although our management will control our overall litigation strategy and our strategy for each case we litigate. Organic Fertilizer Segment We operate a processing facility in Gonzales, CA that uses food and agricultural waste as raw materials to manufacture organic fertilizer and soil amendment products combining nutritional and disease suppression characteristics for sale to our agribusiness market. The Gonzales, CA facility is our production facility that services the West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. This facility uses proprietary technology and process known as High Temperature Liquid Composting, or HTLC, which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and food waste-based fertilizer and a limited amount of solids that could be further processed into a useable form for use in agriculture, retail, and professional turf markets. The Company has been evaluating whether to continue the organic fertilizer business as currently conducted. Subsequent to September 30, 2014, following discussions among the Board of Directors and management regarding various alternatives with respect to our organic fertilizer business, management recommended to the Board of Directors that the Company sell the organic fertilizer business in order to better focus on the Companys principal line of business, web and network security. On October 6, 2014, the Board of Directors adopted a resolution authorizing the management to pursue the sale of Converted Organics. We are pursuing the sale of our fertilizer business and Converted Organics will be held for sale until a sale is finalized. 15 Table of Contents Recent Developments Patent Litigations On September 24, 2014, Finjan entered into a license agreement with Websense, resolving all outstanding legal disputes, including the matter entitled Finjan, Inc. v. Websense, Inc. 5:13-cv-04398-BLF (N.D. Cal). See Part II Other Information, Item 1. Legal Proceedings. On November 4, Finjan filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Palo Alto Networks, Inc. in the United States District Court for Northern District of California. Finjan is asserting that Palo Alto Networks, Inc. is infringing upon several of Finjans patents. Converted Organics Subsequent to September 30, 2014, following discussions among the Board of Directors and management regarding various alternatives with respect to our organic fertilizer business, management recommended to the Board of Directors that the Company sell the organic fertilizer business in order to better focus on the Companys principal line of business, web and network security. On October 6, 2014, the Board of Directors adopted a resolution authorizing management to pursue the sale of Converted Organics. The Company is pursuing the sale of our fertilizer business and Converted Organics will be held for sale until a sale is finalized. Employment Agreement On October 30, 2014, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with Shimon Steinmetz, the Company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. See Note 10 to financial statements for additional information. Recent Accounting Pronouncements On June 19, 2014, FASB issued ASU No. 2014-12, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Accounting for Share-Based Payments when the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service Period . This ASU requires that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. This update further clarifies that compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the period(s) for which the requisite service has already been rendered. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015. Earlier adoption is permitted. The adoption of this standard is expected not to have a material impact on the Companys condensed consolidated financial position and results of operations. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09) , which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled to when products and services are transferred to customers. ASU 2014-09 will be effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of 2018. Early adoption is not permitted. The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting the new revenue standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements. In April 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-08, Presentation of Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360) Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity. The amendment changes the criteria for reporting discontinued operations while enhancing disclosures in this area. Under the new guidance, only disposals representing a strategic shift in operations should be presented as discontinued operations. Those strategic shifts should have a major effect on the organizations operations and financial results. Examples include a disposal of a major geographic area, a major line of business, or a major equity method investment. This ASU is effective in the first quarter of 2015 and the Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting the new revenue standard on its condensed consolidated financial statements. Other recent accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by FASB or other standards-setting bodies that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements upon adoption. 16 Table of Contents Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014 for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuations of Income, Expenses and Cash Flows Related to Licensing and Enforcement Our licenses and judgments may not be recurring, and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until we actually receive the proceeds of licensing activities or litigation (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants, and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business, our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. Public Company Expenses As a result of the Merger, Finjan became a public company on June 3, 2013, and our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market in May 2014. Finjans operating results as a private company do not reflect certain increased expenses that we incur, and will continue to incur, as a public company with listed securities, including legal and accounting fees and other general and administrative expenses related to, among other things, establishing and maintaining more comprehensive compliance and governance functions, establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and complying with federal securities laws. We have also incurred additional costs associated with compensation of non-employee directors and costs associated with the retention of full-time executives, employees and consultants to operate our web and network security technology business and to comply with our obligations as a public company. In addition, the cost of director and officer liability insurance has increased compared to costs incurred by Finjan prior to becoming a public company. Any of the foregoing costs could continue to increase as we pursue our growth strategy. In light of these costs and the changes in our management, business and growth strategy that resulted from the Merger, the costs that we incurred prior to the Merger may not be indicative of the costs we incur as a post-Merger public company and will continue to incur in the future. Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation Prior to the Merger with Converted Organics Inc. on June 3, 2013, Finjan had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 77 shares of Finjan common stock, all of which were awarded in May 2013. Following the Merger, stockholders approved the 2013 Plan, pursuant to which 1,456,833 options to purchase shares of our common stock are outstanding as of September 30, 2014, at exercise prices ranging from $1.66 to $5.90. Our Board of Directors also adopted the 2014 Plan, which our shareholders approved at our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders on July 10, 2014, pursuant to which 2,196,836 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance. A total of 244,504 RSUs and 25,000 stock options are outstanding under the 2014 Plan. Upon shareholder approval of the 2014 Plan, the 2013 Plan terminated effective July 10, 2014, other than with respect to the 1,456,833 options that are outstanding as of September 30, 2014, and no further grants will be made under the 2013 Plan. We expect that future equity-based awards will be made under the 2014 Plan to our directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods that may not be comparable to past periods. 17 Table of Contents In April 2013, Finjan engaged Philip Hartstein and Shimon Steinmetz as its President and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, pursuant to consulting agreements. Messrs. Hartstein and Steinmetz were appointed President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company on July 8, 2013, and additionally acquired the titles of Chief Executive Officer and Treasurer, respectively, on July 10, 2014. During the first nine months of 2014, we also hired several senior management employees and we intend to hire additional employees and/or consultants in the future to expand our business. Since the Merger, we have hired a total of 12 employees in the web and network security business. Accordingly, we will continue to incur compensation expenses in future periods that Finjan did not incur during the historical period presented in its financial statements. Finjan Reorganization Until May 2, 2013, Finjan was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finjan Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation, which we refer to as FSI. In April 2013, Finjan distributed securities of two unaffiliated entities which it previously held to FSI, and made a payment of cash in an amount sufficient to repay and satisfy in full an intercompany loan from FSI to Finjan. Following that distribution, the Board of Directors and stockholders of FSI approved the dissolution of, and a plan of liquidation for, FSI that resulted in, among other things, the distribution of Finjan common stock to certain of FSIs stockholders, each of whom received shares of our common stock in the Merger. Financing Activities Prior to the Merger In connection with the Merger, we redeemed, cancelled or otherwise retired all of the notes and derivative securities previously issued by Converted Organics, Inc., other than warrants that were exercisable for a de minimis number of shares of our common stock, and which, on October 14, 2014, expired. 18 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents the results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively: For the Three Months Ended For the Nine Months Ended September 30, September 30, 2014 2013 2014 2013 (in thousands) Revenue: Web and network security technology $ 4,998 $ - $ 4,998 $ - Organic fertilizer 377 394 1,187 592 Total Revenue $ 5,375 $ 394 $ 6,185 $ 592 Cost of Revenues: Web and network security technology $ 800 $ - $ 800 $ - Organic fertilizer 237 324 703 472 Total Cost of Revenues $ 1,037 $ 324 $ 1,503 $ 472 Gross Profit: $ 4,338 $ 70 $ 4,682 $ 120 Operating Expense: Web and network security technology $ 3,534 $ 1,399 $ 9,723 $ 4,525 Organic fertilizer 260 50 758 53 Total Operating Expenses: $ 3,794 $ 1,449 $ 10,481 $ 4,578 Loss from operations: $ 544 $ (1,379 ) $ (5,799 ) $ (4,458 ) Other Income, Net: Web and network security technology $ - $ (4 ) $ 1,000 $ 1,013 Organic fertilizer (1 ) - 16 - Total Other Income: $ (1 ) $ (4 ) $ 1,016 $ 1,013 Interest Income: Web and network security technology $ 8 $ 7 $ 82 $ 118 Organic fertilizer - - - - Total Interest Income: $ 8 $ 7 $ 82 $ 118 Net loss before Provision for Income Taxes: $ 551 $ (1,376 ) $ (4,701 ) $ (3,327 ) Income Tax Expense: $ (2 ) $ - $ (3 ) $ 7 Net Loss: $ 553 $ (1,376 ) $ (4,698 ) $ (3,334 ) During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, total Revenue increased by approximately $5.0 million and $5.6 million or 1264% and 945%, respectively, as compared to the same periods in 2013. The increase was due to the recognition as Revenue of the first installment of $3.0 million and second installment of $2.0 million receivable within 12 months as part of recently signed license agreement. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, Cost of Revenues increased by $0.8 million and $1.0 million, or 220.1%, and 218.4%, respectively, as compared to the same periods in 2013. The increase was due to a $0.8 million legal fees payable upon execution of the recently signed license agreement. Also, for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, the Company recognized a full nine months of costs from the fertilizer business compared to less than four months of costs recognized in the same period in 2013, due to the timing of the Merger. The Companys Operating Expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation and consulting, accounting, legal and other professional fees. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, Total Operating Expenses increased by $2.3 million and $5.9 million, or 161.1% and 128.7%, respectively, as compared to the same periods in 2013. The increased costs for the three months ended September 30, 2014 were primarily due to a $1.3 million increase in legal and consultancy fees for patent enforcement activities, $0.7 million increase in compensation expenses and a $0.3 million increase in various general and administration costs, compared to the same period in 2013. The increased costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 were primarily due to a $2.7 million increase in legal and consultancy fees for patent enforcement activities, a $1.7 million increase in compensation expenses due to additional employees and restricted stock and stock option awards, a $1.0 million increase in costs related to corporate legal fees, public company expenses and investor relation costs, and an additional $0.5 million in various costs related to opening a new office in California, evaluation of strategic transactions, franchise taxes, and directors and officers insurance. 19 Table of Contents During the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, the Company did not have Other Income. Other Income remained consistent during the nine months ended September 30, 2014, at $1.0 million as compared to the same periods in 2013. The Company received the third and last installment payment of $1.0 million associated with a licensing agreement entered into in 2012 during the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The second installment payment of the settlement was received during the nine months ended September 30, 2013. During the three months ended September 30, 2014, Interest Income remained consistent with the same period in 2013. During the nine months ended September 30, 2014, Interest Income reduced approximately $40,000 or 31% due to the lower average cash balance on hand compared to the same period in 2013. Income Tax Expense increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014, by approximately $2,000 and $10,000, respectively, due to limited cumulative taxable operations of the Company in certain local jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expect to continue devoting significant capital resources to the litigations in process and any other litigation we pursue. We also expect to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, and acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy, and to attract and retain qualified personnel on a full-time basis. In addition, on November 21, 2013, we made a $5 million commitment to invest in an Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund seeking to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies of which $4.0 million remains outstanding. The fund can make a call on our remaining $4.0 million commitment at any time until 2018. We expect to make payments to honor this commitment if and when capital calls are made by the fund. We have sufficient cash on hand to fund such obligations. The Company leases a production facility in Gonzales, California, corporate headquarters in New York and an office in Menlo Park, California. Under the terms of the leases, the Company owes minimum lease obligations of $1.6 million over the life of the leases. The company expects to pay $0.4 million in lease payments over the next 12 months. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally historical and future proceeds from licenses, settlements and judgments in connection with our patent enforcement and licensing activities. On September 24, 2014, Finjan entered into a licensing agreement that provides for installment payments through January 13, 2017. The amount and timing of cash flows from our licensing and enforcement activities are subject to uncertainties stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the success of our licensing efforts and the outcome of enforcement actions. As a result, our income and cash flows may vary significantly from period to period. As of September 30, 2014, we had approximately $20.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and $20.2 million of working capital. The decrease in our cash and cash equivalents of approximately $4.2 million from December 31, 2013 is primarily attributable to approximately $3.8 million used in operations, net of $4.0 million received from licensing agreements entered into in 2012 and the third quarter of 2014, a $0.5 million capital commitment called by the Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund and approximately $0.1 million received from exercises of stock options by certain former employees. 20 Table of Contents Based on current forecasts and assumptions, management believes that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. Even without such difficulties, we may seek to raise additional capital to grow our business. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Our Converted Organics subsidiary does not have funds to build additional facilities and we have no plans to raise such funds or allocate funds generated from our web and network security technology business for that purpose. Furthermore, we are pursuing a plan to sell the fertilizer business and Converted Organics is held for sale until the sale process is finalized. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sell the organic fertilizer business on acceptable terms or at all. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Finjans net cash used in operating activities decreased by $27.0 million to $3.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2014, as compared to the same period in 2013. This reduction was primarily attributable to the payment of accrued income taxes of $25.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2013. Accrued income taxes paid during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 were not material. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2014, cash flow from investing activities decreased by $1.1 million. Cash used by investing activities was approximately $0.5 million compared $0.6 million cash flow from investing activities during the comparable period in 2013. Cash used in investing activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2014, related to a $0.5 million capital commitment called by the Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund. The principal source of cash in the nine months ended September 30, 2013, was the proceeds from notes receivable and cash acquired through the Merger. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2014, cash flows from financing activities were approximately $0.1 million attributable to exercise of stock options by certain former employees. During the comparable period in 2013, Finjan used approximately $34.1 million in financing activities. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was attributable to a loan repayment of $33.9 million made to Finjans former parent in February 2013, along with the repurchase of common stock for $204,000 in May 2013. 21 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Item 2.