ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion includes forward-looking statements about the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations, including discussions about managements expectations for the business. These statements include statements regarding our expectations, intentions, beliefs and projections about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts or by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, potential, should, will, will be, would, and the negative of these terms and similar expressions, but this is not an exclusive way of identifying such statements. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Our actual results, performance and achievements may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, without limitation, our ability to execute our business plan, the outcome of pending or future enforcement actions, our ability to expand our technology portfolio, the enforceability of our patents, the continued use of our technology in the market, the development of a liquid trading market for our securities and other factors described under Item 1A. Risk Factors, as set forth in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, and any subsequent quarterly or current reports. The following discussion should also be read in conjunction with the audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements, and unaudited condensed financial statements including the notes thereto, appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The Company will continue to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the dates specified in such filings. Except as expressly required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after any such date, whether as a result of new information or future events or otherwise. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this report or that may be made elsewhere from time to time by us, or on our behalf. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements Overview Effective as of June 3, 2013, the date we consummated the Merger and changed our name from Converted Organics, Inc. to Finjan Holdings, Inc., we operate two businesses, each of which constitutes a separate reportable segment. Our two reportable segments include: our web and network security technology segment, which we operate through Finjan, and our organic fertilizer segment, which we operate through Converted Organics. Finjan is considered the acquirer for accounting purposes in the Merger and we account for the transaction as a reverse business combination. Consequently, the assets and liabilities and the historical operations that are reflected in our historical financial statements are those of Finjan. The results of operations of our organic fertilizer segment have been included in our assets and liabilities and our historical operations since June 3, 2013, the date we completed the Merger. We intend to carry on our web and network security technology business as our principal line of business. We are evaluating whether to continue our organic fertilizer business as currently conducted. There can be no assurance that we will continue to operate our organic fertilizer business as previously operated or at all. 12 Table of Contents Web and Network Security Technology Segment We operate our web and network security technology business through Finjan. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents, related to software that proactively detects malicious code and thereby protects end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other online threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented technology that is capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based, basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers, which were standard in the online security industry during the 1990s. As the network, web and endpoint security industries have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that our technology is widely used by third parties. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of our technology through further licensing and to broaden our technology and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. As a core element of our continued patent licensing and enforcement business, our management team, having expertise with technology and IP monetization, alongside early company executives including Shlomo Touboul (Finjans founder) who consults with us, monitors a number of markets and assesses and observes the adoption of our patented technology in these markets. Our management team, in conjunction with outside legal, technical, and financial experts conclude on a case-by-case basis whether or not they believe that Finjans patented technology is being used. Based on these observations, we continue to believe our patented technologies are relevant in specific technology areas including endpoint/cloud software, web gateway/internet infrastructure, and networking equipment markets. From that basis, we pursue unlicensed entities through licensing, assertion of claims or both. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2009, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the enforcement of its patent rights against unauthorized use and, to a lesser extent, income derived from intellectual property licenses granted to third parties for the use of patented technologies that are owned by Finjan. Although we are actively pursuing negotiated licenses apart from litigation settlements, we have not entered into a license agreement outside of a settlement since our 2012 negotiated license agreement with Trustwave Holdings, Inc. Finjans operating expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses. Finjan did not have any full-time employees from 2009 until 2013. Instead, Finjan relied on outside legal counsel, technology consultants and other professionals to conduct operations during that period, some of whom are former investors and executives of Finjan. Accordingly, Finjans general and administrative expenses consist primarily of legal fees and other expenses paid to third party consultants. In April 2013, Finjan engaged Philip Hartstein and Shimon Steinmetz to serve as its President and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, pursuant to consulting agreements, which were terminated upon the execution of employment agreements between the Company and Messrs. Hartstein and Steinmetz. Prior to April 2013, Finjans sole executive officer was Daniel Chinn, serving as Chief Executive Officer, who did not receive compensation for his services as an officer of Finjan. Messrs. Hartstein and Steinmetz were appointed as our President and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, upon the closing of the Merger. Since the Merger we have hired eight additional full-time employees. We intend to hire or engage additional full-time employees and/or consultants to pursue our growth strategy, although there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified personnel on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our management team and additional personnel that we may hire in the future will be primarily responsible for establishing and pursuing our licensing and enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and enforcement opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing technology and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. We nonetheless expect to continue to utilize outside legal counsel and other professionals to execute aspects of our strategy for the foreseeable future, such as counsel we will retain to prosecute enforcement actions, although our management will control our overall litigation strategy and our strategy for each case we litigate. 13 Table of Contents Organic Fertilizer Segment We operate a processing facility in Gonzales, CA that uses food and agricultural waste as raw materials to manufacture organic fertilizer and soil amendment products combining nutritional and disease suppression characteristics for sale to our agribusiness market. The Gonzales, CA facility is our production facility that services the West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. This facility uses proprietary technology and process known as High Temperature Liquid Composting, or HTLC, which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and food waste-based fertilizer and a limited amount of solids that could be further processed into a useable form for use in agriculture, retail, and professional turf markets. We are evaluating whether to continue our organic fertilizer business. There can be no assurance that we will continue to operate our organic fertilizer business as previously operated or at all. Recent Developments Application to List Common Stock on NASDAQ On May 5, 2014, the Company received confirmation that its application to list the Companys common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market has been approved by NASDAQ. The Companys common stock will trade on The NASDAQ Stock Market under its current trading symbol FNJN. 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders The Board established a date for the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders and the record date for stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting. The annual meeting is scheduled to be held at 9 a.m. Eastern Time at 575 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022, on July 10, 2014. Finjan Holdings stockholders of record at the close of business on May 15, 2014 will be entitled to notice of the annual meeting and to vote upon matters considered at the meeting. The Company will make available to all stockholders of record on the record date the proxy statement containing the meeting details and admission procedures. Appointments to the Board of Directors; Committees of the Board of Directors On April 4, 2014, Glenn Daniel, Harry Kellogg and Michael Southworth were appointed to the Companys Board of Directors, which increased the size of the Companys Board from five to eight directors. All three new Board members serve as independent directors and members of the Companys Audit Committee in addition to other Board duties. Mr. Daniel also serves as a member of the Companys Compensation Committee. In addition, Eric Benhamou, a current director, was appointed Chairman of the Boards Audit Committee, and Michael Eisenberg, a current director, was appointed Chairman of the Boards Compensation Committee. Daniel Chinn, a current director, remains Chairman of the Boards Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Directors Compensation On April 4, 2014, the Board approved the following director compensation for Glenn Daniel, Harry Kellogg and Michael Southworth, the new directors, and Eric Benhamou, the new Chair of the Audit Committee: $65,000 annual director fee, payable in arrears in four equal quarterly installments on the last day of each fiscal quarter during which a director serves as a member of the Board; provided, however, that each such installment shall only be paid if such director served as such during the entire fiscal quarter with respect to which such installment is payable; 14 Table of Contents $17,500 annual fee to members of the Audit Committee, payable in arrears on the last day of each fiscal year during which such director served as a member of the Audit Committee; $10,000 annual fee to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, payable in arrears on the last day of each fiscal year during which such Chairman served as the Chairman of the Audit Committee; and Subject to shareholder approval of the Companys 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan, a grant of restricted stock units (RSUs) to each non-executive director, such RSUs to represent a number of shares of the common stock equal to $100,000, divided by the closing sales price of the common stock on the date of grant, rounded to the nearest whole share, to vest in accordance with the following vesting schedule: one-third of the RSUs to vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date, and an additional 8.33% of the RSUs to vest every three calendar months thereafter. Lease On March 20, 2014, we received the consent of the master landlord for a sublease, dated as of March 10, 2014, pursuant to which the Company subleased office space in Menlo Park, California. From the commencement date through November 30, 2017, we will owe an initial annual rent of $164,619, payable in equal monthly installments, unless earlier terminated by either party in accordance with the lease. The annual rental rate is subject to an approximately 3.0% increase each anniversary of the commencement date during the term. New Patent On March 18, 2014, our subsidiary, Finjan, was issued a new U.S. patent (8,677,494) expiring in 2017 (the 494 Patent). This patent relates to a proprietary malicious mobile code runtime monitoring systems and methods, designed to address potential network security threats through better recognition of malicious code segments passing through Internet infrastructure and networks to endpoint devices. The techniques described in the 494 Patent cover protection systems and methods offering security for one or more personal computers and/or other intermittently or persistently network accessible devices or processes. Specifically, the inventive aspects of the patent cover various defenses from undesirable or otherwise malicious operations of Java TN applets, ActiveX controls, JavaScript scripts, Visual Basic scripts, add-ins, and downloaded/uploaded programs which are often downloaded by users without considering the inherent security risks. Patent Litigation On March 14, 2014, our subsidiary, Finjan, filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Sophos, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation, alleging infringement of Finjan patents relating to endpoint, web, and network security technologies. On March 24, 2014, our subsidiary, Finjan, filed a separate suit against Websense, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging infringement of Finjan patents relating to endpoint, web, and network security technologies. See Part II Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have determined there are no new accounting standards that are expected to have a material impact on the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. 15 Table of Contents Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and Item 1A. Risk Factors in this filing for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuation of income, expenses and cash flows related to licensing and enforcement Our settlements and judgments are non-recurring, and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until we actually receive the proceeds of licensing activities or litigation (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business, our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. Public company expenses As a result of the Merger, Finjan became a subsidiary of a public company, and we have been approved to list our common stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market. Finjans operating results as a private company do not reflect certain increased expenses that we incur, and will continue to incur, as a post- Merger public company, including legal and accounting fees and other general and administrative expenses related to among other things, establishing and maintaining more comprehensive compliance and governance functions, establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and complying with federal securities laws. We have also incurred additional costs associated with compensation of non-employee directors and costs associated with the retention of full-time executives, employees and consultants to operate our web and network security technology business and to comply with our obligations as a public company. In addition, the cost of director and officer liability insurance has increased compared to costs incurred by Finjan prior to the Merger. Any of the foregoing costs could continue to increase as we pursue our growth strategy. In light of these costs and the changes in our management, business and growth strategy that resulted from the Merger, the costs that we incurred prior to the Merger may not be indicative of the costs we incur as a post- Merger public company and will continue to incur in the future. Stock-based and other executive compensation Prior to the Merger, Finjan had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 77 shares of Finjan common stock, all of which were awarded in May 2013. Following the Merger, our board of directors adopted the 2013 Option Plan, pursuant to which 1,625,476 options to purchase shares of our common stock are outstanding, at exercise prices ranging from $1.66 to $5.90. Our Board of Directors 16 Table of Contents also adopted the 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan, subject to shareholder approval at our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on July 10, 2014. If shareholders approve the 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan, the 2013 Option Plan will terminate, other than with respect to outstanding options, and no further grants will be made under the 2013 Option Plan. We expect that future equity-based awards will be made under then existing equity, incentive compensation or similar plans to our directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods that may not be comparable to past periods. Finjan had no full-time employees or full-time consultants during the quarter ended March 31, 2013 and its sole executive officer served in such capacity without compensation during such quarter. In April 2013, Finjan engaged Philip Hartstein and Shimon Steinmetz as its President and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, pursuant to consulting agreements. Messrs. Hartstein and Steinmetz were appointed President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company on July 8, 2013. During the first quarter of 2014, we also hired several senior management employees and we intend to hire additional employees and/or consultants in the future to expand our business. Since the Merger, we have hired a total of eight employees. Accordingly, we will incur compensation expenses in future periods that Finjan did not incur during the period presented in its financial statements. Finjan Reorganization Until May 2, 2013, Finjan was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finjan Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation, which we refer to as FSI. In April 2013, Finjan distributed securities of two unaffiliated entities which it previously held to FSI, and made a payment of cash in an amount sufficient to repay and satisfy in full an intercompany loan from FSI to Finjan. Following that distribution, the board of directors and stockholders of FSI approved the dissolution of, and a plan of liquidation for, FSI that resulted in, among other things, the distribution of Finjan common stock to certain of FSIs stockholders, each of whom received shares of our common stock in the Merger. Recent Financing Activities Prior to the Merger Prior to the Merger, Converted Organics, Inc.s operations were financed primarily by the issuance of debt, equity and equity-linked securities. In connection with the Merger, we redeemed, cancelled or otherwise retired all of the notes and derivative securities previously issued by Converted Organics, Inc., other than warrants that are exercisable for a de minimus number of shares of our common stock. Although we may require financing in the future, we expect that our cash on hand will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for at least the next twelve months, although we may seek additional financing in connection with our growth strategy. During the three month period ended March 31, 2013, Converted Organics issued short term notes in the aggregate amount of $374,000, which were extinguished pursuant to the Exchange Agreement. 17 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents the results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Revenue: Web and network security technology $ $ Organic fertilizer 175 Total Revenue $ 175 $ Cost of Revenues: Web and network security technology $ $ Organic fertilizer 134 Total Cost of Revenues $ 134 $ Gross Profit $ 41 $ Operating Expenses: Web and network security technology $ 2,858 $ 847 Organic fertilizer 265 Total Operating Expenses: $ 3,123 $ 847 Loss from operations $ (3,082 ) $ (847 ) Other Income, net: Web and network security technology $ 1,000 $ Organic fertilizer 12 Total Other Income $ 1,012 $ Interest Income, net: Web and network security technology $ 68 $ 80 Organic fertilizer Total Interest Income: $ 68 $ 80 Net loss before Provision for Income Taxes $ (2,002 ) $ (767 ) Income Tax Expense $ (1 ) Net Loss $ (2,003 ) $ (767 ) The financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2014 include the financial results of Finjan and our Converted Organics business subsequent to the date of the Merger. Only the historical financial statements of Finjan, Inc. are included in the comparative prior period. In the three months ended March 31, 2014, total revenue increased by approximately $0.2 million or 100% as compared to the same period in 2013. The entire revenue amount is attributable to the sale of fertilizer by Converted Organics. The Company did not have revenue during the same periods in 2013. Cost of revenue increased by $0.1 million or 100% as compared to the same period of 2013. The entire cost of goods amount is attributable to the sale of fertilizer by Converted Organics and consist of production and material costs incurred by our organic fertilizer business. We did not incur costs related to revenue during the same period in 2013. 18 Table of Contents Our operating expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation, consulting and other professional fees and legal and litigation support costs associated with executing our strategy of licensing and protecting our web and network security technology patent portfolio. In the three months ended March 31, 2014, total operating expenses increased by $2.3 million compared to the same period in 2013. The increased costs were primarily due to approximately $0.4 million incurred in relation to current litigations, $0.3 million incurred in other legal, enforcement and patent maintenance activities, approximately $0.2 million incurred for corporate legal expenses, $0.3 million incurred for accounting and consulting fees and $0.9 million incurred for franchise taxes, insurance and various costs, most of which are related to being a public company. The Company also hired new employees during the three months ended March 31, 2014 resulting in increased salaries and benefits of approximately $0.7 million. Our other income consists of gain on settlements, net of legal costs, interest income and other income and expenses. Gain on settlements, net of legal costs increased by $1.0 million, or 100%, to $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013. The increase was primarily due to our receipt of net cash proceeds of approximately $1.0 million (Gross proceeds of $1.07 million less interest of $0.07 million) representing the last of three equal installment payments payable over 18 months pursuant to a settlement between Finjan and one of the defendants in a patent infringement lawsuit that Finjan filed in 2010. Our interest income decreased by less than $0.01 million, or 15%, to approximately $0.07 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to same period in 2013. Interest income decreased due to the lower average cash balance on hand as at March 31 2014 compared the cash balance as at March 31, 2013. The significant fluctuation in our net income before taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to our income for the same period in 2013 reflects the fact that our settlements are non-recurring and, as a result, income for these periods is not necessarily indicative of the income we will achieve for the year or in the future. Our income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2014 were less than $0.01 million. We did not have income tax expense for the same period in 2013. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expect to continue to devote significant capital resources to the litigations in process and any other litigation we pursue. We also expect to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, and acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy and to attract and retain qualified personnel on a full time basis. On November 21, 2013, we made a $5 million commitment to invest in an Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund seeking to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies of which $4.5 million remains outstanding. We expect to make payments to honor this commitment if and when capital calls are made by the fund. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally proceeds from settlements and judgments in connection with our patent enforcement activities. Based on current forecasts and assumptions, management believes that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. Even without such difficulties, we may seek to raise additional capital to grow our business. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. 19 Table of Contents We had approximately $23.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and $22.4 million of working capital as of March 31, 2014. The decrease in our cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1 million from December 31, 2013 is primarily attributable to approximately $2.0 million used in operations offset by $1.0 million received from a licensing agreement entered into in 2012. Our Converted Organics subsidiary does not have funds to build additional facilities and we have no plans to raise such funds or allocate funds generated from our web and network security technology business for that purpose. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Finjans net cash used in operating activities decreased by $27.3 million to $1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2014 as compared to the same period in 2013. This decrease was primarily attributable to the payment of accrued income taxes of $25.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013, which related to taxes owed on the revenue earned in 2012 and satisfaction of approximately $2.2 million in accounts payable. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2014, cash flow used in investing activities was approximately $42,000, as compared to $0 used in investing activities during the comparable period in 2013. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2014 related to purchase of fixed assets. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2014, cash used for financing activities decreased to $0 compared to approximately $34.0 million used in financing activities during the comparable period in 2013. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was attributable to a loan repayment of $33.9 million made to Finjans former parent in the February 2013. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, no cash was used in investing activities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements We have determined there are no new accounting standards that are expected to have a material impact on the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements.