ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to, those set forth under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is organized as follows: Overview. A discussion of our business and overall analysis of financial and other highlights in order to provide context for the remainder of MD&A. Significant Developments . We highlight significant developments in our business and operations during the past year. Industry Trends & Outlook . A discussion of notable industry trends and how such trends might affect our business and operations as well as an outlook on developments we see on the horizon. Comparability to Future Results. We discuss areas of our historical business and operations that may not be indicative of future results. Results of Operations. A discussion of the nature and trends in our financial results and an analysis of our financial results comparing fiscal 2018 to 2017, and 2017 to 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our balance sheets and cash flows, and a discussion of our financial condition and our ability to meet cash needs. Contractual Obligations. An overview of our contractual obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2018, including expected payment schedules. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. A discussion of our accounting policies that require critical estimates, assumptions, and judgments. Recent Accounting Pronouncements. A discussion of expected impacts of impending accounting changes on financial information to be reported in the future. 27 Table of Contents Overview We operate a cybersecurity business, focused on licensing and enforcement, developing mobile security applications, and investing in emerging cybersecurity technologies and intellectual property. We operate our cybersecurity business through our wholly-owned subsidiaries including, Finjan, Finjan Blue, and Finjan Mobile. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents, related to software and hardware technologies that proactively detect malicious code and thereby protect end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other web and network threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented technologies that are capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based, basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers. The older signature-based methods, were standard in the web and network security industry during the 1990s. As the web and endpoint security industries - known as cybersecurity - have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that our patented technologies continue to be widely used by third parties in a number of market segments. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of our technologies through further licensing and to broaden our technologies and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. As a core element of our continued patent licensing and enforcement business, our management team, having expertise with technology and IP monetization, monitors a number of markets and assesses and observes the adoption of our patented technologies in these markets. Our management team, in conjunction with outside legal, technical, and financial experts concludes on a case-by-case basis whether or not they believe that Finjans patented technologies are being used. Based on these observations, we continue to believe our patented technologies are highly relevant in specific cybersecurity technology areas including, but not limited to, endpoint/cloud software, web gateway/internet infrastructure, and networking equipment markets. From that basis, we pursue unlicensed entities through licensing, assertion of claims or both to preserve the value of our portfolio in general. This also reinforces the value to existing licensees of the Finjan patent portfolio. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2009, our primary source of income and related cash flows has been the enforcement of its patent rights against unauthorized use and to a lesser extent, income derived from intellectual property licenses granted to third parties for the use of patented technologies that are owned by Finjan. Finjan Blue was founded to support our development and licensing efforts of the IBM Security Patents obtained by Finjan Blue through the Patent Assignment and Support Agreement and the May 2018 Patent Assignment Agreement with IBM. The Agreements, the terms of which are confidential, includes pathways for Finjan and IBM to consider development efforts in the future and provides for the sharing of pertinent institutional knowledge and resources by IBM to Finjan Blue. Finjan Mobile was founded to ensure that mobile devices are protected against spies, phishing and malware attacks. Given the uptrend in mobile device usage coupled with the amount of transient corporate data, the average mobile user presents and represents higher risks of data loss through hacking. The consumer mobile device has become so convenient that consumers often ignore online security and download apps and blindly agree to terms of service, purchase products, pay bills, connect to free Wi-Fi, and not think twice about personal data and photos stored on their devices. We started research and development of security products for mobile devices which benefit from technologies developed and patented by Finjan but also include the invention of new mobile technologies that will help expand our existing patent portfolio. Products currently available include our Finjan Mobile Secure Browser and a Virtual Private Network (VPN), recently re-branded as InvinciBull, which can be used within the Finjan Browser or separately to encrypt data and keep consumers secure. As of December 31, 2018, we had 10 employees. We intend to hire or engage additional full-time professionals, employees, and/or consultants in alignment with our growth strategy. Although the market is highly competitive for attracting and retaining highly qualified professionals in our industry, we continue our endeavor to find such candidates for our Company. Our management team and additional personnel that we may hire in the future will be primarily responsible for executing and implementing our licensing and enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and enforcement opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing cybersecurity technologies and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. 28 Table of Contents Significant Developments During 2018 Redemption of Preferred Stock In January 2018, we redeemed $6.2 million or 48,076 shares of our Series A-1 Preferred stock. JVP Capital Call During 2018, we made payments to the JVP fund totaling $0.9 million, reducing the commitment outstanding to $1.8 million. Settlements with: Symantec In March 2018, we announced that the Finjan Parties and the Symantec Parties had entered into a License and Settlement Agreement effective as of February 28, 2018. Specifically, the Parties have resolved and settled all claims between them. As part of the settlement, the Symantec Parties obtained a license to, among others, the Finjan patents and paid the Finjan Parties $65.0 million in cash, and if Symantec acquires certain entities within four years from February 28, 2018, the Symantec Parties will pay additional license fees of up to $45.0 million to the Finjan Parties, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by us and Symantec. The remaining terms of the License and Settlement Agreement are confidential. Carbon Black On April 6, 2018, we entered into a 2018 Finjan License with Carbon Black, Inc., a Delaware corporation, whereby the companies have resolved all pending litigation matters. In addition, Finjan Mobile and Carbon Black have entered into a separate Cross License, which serves to ensure the parties freedom to operate under the others patent portfolio. The terms of each agreement are confidential. Under the terms of the license, Carbon Black agreed to pay Finjan $3.9 million in license fees. Further, upon acquisition of Carbon Black or acquisitions by Carbon Black, additional one-time license fees will be due to Finjan equal to eight percent (8%) of the gross revenues of certain qualifying products and services for the four (4) concluded quarters immediately preceding the acquisition. Trend Micro On June 29, 2018, we entered into the June License Agreement with the Trend Micro Parties. The June License Agreement provides that the Trend Micro Parties will obtain a license to, among others, the Finjan patents and pay the Finjan parties $13.4 million in cash. Further, upon acquisition by the Trend Micro Parties of certain entities, the Trend Micro Parties will pay additional license fees to Finjan, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by us and the Trend Micro Parties. Further, the June License Agreement has additional provisions relating to certain unlicensed products of any company that acquires a Trend Micro Party, in which case additional license fees may apply. The parties also entered into related agreements with respect to their respective patents, including the transfer of 18 select issued security-related patent assets from the Trend Micro Parties to the Finjan Parties. Inter Partes Reviews See "NOTE 8 - Litigation, Claims, and Assessments" to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Patent Litigations See "NOTE 8 - Litigation, Claims, and Assessments" to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Industry Trends and Outlook Cybersecurity has been a very active sector in 2018 and we believe this trend will continue in 2019. Cybersecurity is not just another technology but a critical business issue that intersects government, corporations and individual citizens. We have recently seen a number of devastatingly successful cybersecurity breaches targeting high profile government offices and corporations. The full extent of the cost and damage associated with these attacks may not be known for some time. Nonetheless, these attacks are expected to continue, along with their associated and sometimes unprecedented costs. In many cases, it is not just the government or corporation that suffers losses or damages but their clients and customers, who can also fall victim by the breach of their personal and otherwise confidential data. These issues have forced both government and corporations to take a serious look at their vulnerabilities, which will lead to increased spending on cybersecurity infrastructure, including hardware and software, as well as cybersecurity consulting services. Given our 20 plus years of history in the cybersecurity market we have had the benefit of actively participating in the progression on how technology has moved to meet the new threats and demands. We believe this puts us in a unique position to make observations 29 Table of Contents and determine the best course of action in order to make investments in new developing technologies. There is still a limited appreciation for how much personal data is being pushed out over the internet for anyone to capture and unlike desktops and laptop computers, mobile devices do not have the same kind of access to security. We believe this represents a unique opportunity for Finjan to develop products for consumer mobile devices that were once only available to our enterprise customers. As such, we are building upon our current patented technology and migrating it into the mobile platform so consumers can have greater control of their security and personal information. We believe that there are some proponents of patent law reform, largely made up of an individual or coalitions of technology corporations that continue to seek statutory limitations on how companies can enforce their patents. In an effort to ensure fair and balanced protections for all good faith patent owners, our executives have dedicated time and resources to actively educate our lawmakers and existing and prospective stakeholders on how certain proposed reforms could harm individual inventors, startups, small companies, the licensing industry and therefore, U.S. innovation and the economy as a whole. Further, since the enactment of the AIA on September 16, 2011, several aspects of the patent law have been interpreted by the courts, including what constitutes patentable subject matter, inducement of infringement, and (attorney) fee-shifting to the non-prevailing party in the context of litigation, among other issues. Moreover, under AIA, patents previously granted by the USPTO may be reviewed through post-patent grant proceedings such as reexamination or IPR. It is becoming a trend, if not a practice, for accused infringers to petition for reexaminations or IPRs of asserted patents as these proceedings may give the petitioner two bites at the apple. The outcome of the proceedings can range from decisions favorable to the patent holder, favorable to both parties, or favorable to the petitioner. If the outcome is the latter, the value of the challenged patent can be materially reduced or extinguished. Thus, patent rights, including enforcement of such rights against unauthorized use is inherently subject to uncertainties. Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuations of Income, Expenses and Cash Flows Related to Licensing and Enforcement Our licenses and judgments may not be recurring and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until the terms are fixed and determinable or litigation is finalized (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants, and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business, our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation Our Board of Directors has adopted the Finjan Holdings Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan (2014 Restated Plan), which our shareholders approved at our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders on July 10, 2014, pursuant to which 2,196,836 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance and on June 21, 2017, at our 2017 annual meeting of stockholders, our shareholders approved (i) an increase of 1,000,000 shares to the Finjan Holdings, Inc. Restated 2014 Plan and (ii) the addition of an evergreen feature which provides for the annual replenishment of shares to the Restated 2014 Plan share reserve without stockholder approval (equal to 5.0% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the end of our immediately preceding fiscal year). A total of 315,292 restricted stock units and 2,486,647 options remain outstanding as of December 31, 2018, under the Restated 2014 Plan. We expect that future equity-based awards will continue to be made under the Restated 2014 Plan to our 30 Table of Contents directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods that may not be comparable to past periods. We expect to increase the number of employees and consultants to help execute our strategy in the cybersecurity business and support our public company functions. Accordingly, we will continue to incur compensation expenses in future periods that we did not incur during the historical periods presented in our financial statements. Results of Operations We operate a cybersecurity business, focused on licensing and enforcement, providing advisory services, developing mobile security applications, and investing in emerging cybersecurity technologies and intellectual property. The following table summarizes our results of operations for the periods presented and as a percentage of our total revenue for those periods based on our consolidated statement of operations data. The year to year comparison of results of operations is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods. For the Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue (In millions, except percentages) Revenues $ 82.3 100 % $ 50.5 100 % $ 18.4 100 % Cost of revenues 15.3 19 % 6.0 12 % 3.0 16 % Gross profit 67.0 81 % 44.5 88 % 15.4 84 % Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative (1) 32.2 39 % 28.6 57 % 14.4 79 % Research and development 2.1 2 % 1.5 3 % 0.6 3 % Total operating expenses 34.3 41 % 30.1 60 % 15.0 82 % Other income / (expense) (4.0 ) (5 )% 2.2 4 % Income before income taxes 28.7 35 % 16.6 33 % 0.4 2 % Income tax provision (benefit) 8.0 10 % (6.2 ) (12 )% % Net income (loss) $ 20.7 25 % $ 22.8 45 % $ 0.4 2 % (1) Includes stock based compensation $ 1.6 2 % $ 0.8 2 % $ 0.9 5 % 31 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2018 compared with the year ended December 31, 2017: For the Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Change % Change (In millions, except percentages) Revenues $ 82.3 $ 50.5 $ 31.8 63 % Cost of revenues 15.3 6.0 9.3 155 % Gross profit 67.0 44.5 22.5 51 % Gross margin 81 % 88 % Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 32.2 28.6 3.6 13 % Research and development 2.1 1.5 0.6 40 % Total operating expenses 34.3 30.1 4.2 14 % Other income (expense) (4.0 ) 2.2 (6.2 ) (282 )% Income before income taxes 28.7 16.6 12.1 73 % Income tax provision (benefit) 8.0 (6.2 ) 14.2 (229 )% Net income $ 20.7 $ 22.8 $ (2.1 ) (9 )% Revenue in 2018 is derived from multiple license agreements that we entered into with third-parties following negotiations pursuant to our patent licensing and enforcement program. The revenue increase is primarily due to licensing revenues, as further described in "Item 1. Business" - "Licensing and Enforcement - Current Activities, Post 2013". Cost of revenues includes contingent legal fees directly associated with our licensing and enforcement programs. Cost of revenues increased largely in proportion to increase in revenues. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues decreased in 2018 due to the legal fees paid on settlement. Selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A") consisted primarily of legal fees incurred in operations and employee headcount related expenses. These comprise approximately 74% of total SG&A expense. Litigation expenses increased $4.2 million to $16.5 million in 2018 compared to 2017 and are primarily due to the timing of various outstanding litigation actions. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings". Employee headcount related expenses increased $1.8 million to $7.2 million in 2018 compared to 2017, and is primarily due to incentive bonuses earned during the year. The balance of SG&A expenses include consulting, other professional services, facilities and other administrative fees and expenses. Research and Development expenses ("R&D") are primarily from our Finjan Mobile security business and increased by $0.6 million to $2.1 million in 2018 compared to 2017, as we continue to position this business for future growth. Other income (expense) is primarily due to changes in the fair value of the warrant liability of $3.4 million in 2018 versus a benefit of $2.2 million in 2017, and interest expense of $0.6 million in 2018, net. We recognized an income tax expense of $8.1 million on pre-tax income of $28.7 million in 2018 as compared to a benefit from the reduction in the valuation allowance of $6.2 million in 2017. 32 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2017 compared with the year ended December 31, 2016: For the Years Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Change % Change (In millions, except percentages) Revenues $ 50.5 $ 18.4 $ 32.1 174 % Cost of revenues 6.0 3.0 3.0 100 % Gross profit 44.5 15.4 29.1 189 % Gross margin 88 % 84 % Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 28.6 14.4 14.2 99 % Research and development 1.5 0.6 0.9 150 % Total operating expenses 30.1 15.0 15.1 101 % Other income 2.2 2.2 NM Income before income taxes 16.6 0.4 16.2 NM Income tax provision (benefit) (6.2 ) (6.2 ) NM Net income $ 22.8 $ 0.4 $ 22.4 NM Revenue in 2017 is derived from multiple license agreements that we entered into with third-parties following negotiations pursuant to our patent licensing and enforcement program. The revenue increase is primarily due to licensing revenues, as further described in "Item 1. Business" - "Licensing and Enforcement - Current Activities, Post 2013". Cost of revenues includes contingent legal fees directly associated with our licensing and enforcement programs. Cost of revenues increased largely in proportion to increased revenues. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues increased in 2017 in relation to the increase in revenues. Operating expenses consists of sales and marketing, general and administrative, and research and development. Selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A") consisted primarily of legal fees incurred in operations and employee headcount related expenses. These comprise approximately 60% of total SG&A expense. Litigation expenses increased $6.0 million to $12.3 million in 2017 compared to 2016 and are primarily due to the timing of various outstanding litigation actions. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings". Employee headcount related expenses increased $1.0 million to $4.6 million in 2017 compared to 2016. In addition, in 2017 we signed a patent license agreement with FireEye for $5.0 million and increased efforts focusing on the growth of the business. The balance of the increase includes other SG&A expenses including consulting, other professional fees, facilities and other administrative fees and expenses. Operating expenses from our Finjan Mobile security business increased by $1.0 million to $1.5 million in 2017 compared to 2016, as we added resources to grow this market. Other income represents the change in fair value of the warrant liability. We recognized a reduction in the valuation allowance based on the anticipated benefit of $6.2 million from utilizing previous net operating losses. 33 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $43.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments, an increase of approximately $2.1 million from $41.2 million in 2017. During 2018, we retired all shares of the Series A-1 Preferred stock, $19.9 million or 153,000 shares. During 2018, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock having an aggregate value of up to $10.0 million pursuant to a share repurchase program. Under the share repurchase program, we repurchased 686,492 shares of our common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.0 million . As of December 31, 2018, we have a remaining authorization of $8.0 million for future share repurchases. In addition, on November 21, 2013, we made a $5 million commitment to invest in an innovation fund through JVP to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies, of which $1.8 million of the commitment remains unfunded as of December 31, 2018. The fund can make a call on our remaining commitment at any time. We expect to make payments to honor this commitment if and when capital calls are made by the fund. December 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Cash & cash equivalents $ 32,011 $ 41,169 Short term investments 11,303 $ 43,314 $ 41,169 Cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 For the Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 25,601 $ 16,586 $ 1,328 Net cash used in investing activities (13,203 ) (1,873 ) (559 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (21,556 ) 12,778 6,808 Operating Activities : Net cash provided by operating activities was $25.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 and is comprised of $20.7 million in net income, $1.6 million in stock-based compensation, $1.8 million in depreciation and amortization, $3.4 million change in warrant liability and a change in deferred income taxes of $2.5 million, offset by a $4.4 million change in net operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $16.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and is comprised of $22.8 million in net income, $0.8 million in stock-based compensation, $0.8 million in depreciation and amortization, $0.6 million change in net operating assets and liabilities, offset by $2.2 million change in the warrant liability and a change in deferred income taxes of $6.2 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and is comprised of $0.4 million in net income, $0.9 million in stock-based compensation, $0.1 million in depreciation, offset by $0.1 million change in net operating assets and liabilities. Investing Activities : During the year ended December 31, 2018, cash used in investing activities of $13.2 million was related to purchase of investments of $11.3 million, the purchase of assets under the May 2018 Patent Assignment Agreement of $1.0 million and a $0.9 million investment in the JVP fund. 34 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2017, cash used in investing activities of $2.0 million was related to the purchase of assets under the first Patent Assignment Agreement, offset by $0.1 million in cash distribution received from our investment in the JVP fund. During the year ended December 31, 2016, cash used in investing activities primarily related to the $0.6 million cash call by JVP. Financing Activities : During the year ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities of $21.6 million was primarily from the redemption of Series A-1 Preferred Stock totaling $19.9 million, $2.0 million related to the share repurchase program, offset by $0.3 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options. During the year ended December 31, 2017, net cash provided by financing activities of $12.8 million was primarily from the issuance of Series A-1 Preferred Stock totaling $14.4 million and a Common Share offering for $12.0 million, offset by redeeming and retiring Series A Preferred Stock Financing of $13.8 million. During the year ended December 31, 2016, net cash provided by financing activities was $6.8 million. Cash provided by financing activities of $6.8 million during 2016 primarily resulted from the Series A Preferred Stock Financing in May 2016 of $6.7 million, net comprised of the initial financing of $9.5 million, net, offset by subsequent redemptions of $2.8 million. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2018, our contractual obligations over the next five years for the property lease entered into during the year ended 2018, our investment in JVP, the VPN arrangement with Avira and the asset purchase from IBM: Payments due by Period (In thousands) Contractual Obligations Less Than 1 Year 2-5 Years Total Operating Lease Obligations: $ 747 $ 2,828 $ 3,575 Other Long-Term Liabilities: Capital Commitments not called 800 1,000 1,800 Finjan Mobile future commitment 1,300 650 1,950 Finjan Blue future commitment 1,500 4,000 5,500 Total $ 4,347 $ 8,478 $ 12,825 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, warranties and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and our revenue recognition. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and the impact of such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Critical accounting policies are those policies that, in managements view, are most important in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our financial statements. These critical accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Those critical accounting policies and estimates that require the most significant judgment are discussed further below. We consider our most critical accounting policies and estimates to be revenue recognition, gain on settlements, valuation of long lived assets, derivative liabilities, stock based compensation and accounting for business combinations-acquisition method accounting. 35 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods and services. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services. The core principle of the standard is that we should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. To achieve that core principle, we apply the following five step model: l Identify the contract with the customer; l Identify the performance obligations in the contract; l Determine the transaction price; l Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and l Recognize revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied. Revenue from our cybersecurity business results from grants of licenses to its patented cybersecurity technology and settlements reached from legal enforcement of our patent rights. Revenue is recognized upon execution of the agreement, including any future dated payments, which often spread over several quarters or years Depending on the complexity of the underlying revenue arrangement and related terms and conditions, significant judgments, assumptions and estimates may be required to determine when substantial delivery of contract elements has occurred, whether any significant ongoing obligations exist subsequent to contract execution, whether amounts due are collectible and the appropriate period or periods in which, or during which, the completion of the earnings process occurs. Depending on the magnitude of specific revenue arrangements, if different judgments, assumptions and estimates are made regarding contracts executed in any specific period, our periodic financial results may be materially affected. Monetization of patented technologies by licensing through a negotiated agreement and/or enforcement of such patented technologies by a court of law is the main source of our income. Licenses achieved by ordinary business negotiations where a fair value of the license is determined by us is recognized as revenue. Due to our unique business, it is often necessary to file patent infringement litigation against users of our patented technologies as part of the licensing and enforcement activities. We may enter into certain settlements of patent infringement disputes once litigation commences. The amount of consideration received upon any settlement or judgment is allocated to each element of the settlement based on the fair value of each element using the residual method. Elements with fair values related to licensing agreement, royalty revenues, net of contingent legal fees, are recognized as revenue. When we are unable to determine the fair value of a license agreement or a settlement, the value of the license agreement or settlement is recognized as contra expense or gain on settlements in other income. Stock-based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation payments to employees, non-employee consultants and directors are recognized as expense in the statements of income. The compensation cost for all stock-based awards is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award (determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model for stock options and intrinsic value on the date of grant for non-vested restricted stock), and is recognized as an expense over the employees requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the equity award). Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires significant estimates and judgments, including estimating the market price volatility of our common stock, future employee stock option exercise behavior and requisite service periods. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded only for those awards expected to vest using an estimated pre-vesting forfeiture rate. As such, we are required to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures at the time of grant and reflect the impact of estimated pre-vesting option forfeitures on compensation expense recognized. Estimates of pre-vesting forfeitures must be periodically revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We consider several factors in connection with our estimate of pre-vesting forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical pre-vesting forfeiture data. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results differ from our estimates, such amounts will be recorded as cumulative adjustments in the period the estimates are revised. 36 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In connection with the investment in JVP, we have a commitment balance outstanding of approximately $1.8 million, which can be called at any time. In connection with our Distribution Agreement with Avira, we have approximately $2.0 million outstanding, which is payable quarterly over the next two years, with a final payment due April 1, 2020. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See "NOTE 2 - Summary of significant accounting policies, - Recently issued accounting pronouncements"