Item 2. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following discussion includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, about Finjan Holdings, Inc., (the Company or Finjan Holdings), financial condition and results of operations, including discussions about managements expectations for the business. These include statements regarding our expectations, intentions, beliefs and projections about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts or by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, potential, should, will, will be, would, and the negative of these terms and similar expressions, but this is not an exclusive way of identifying such statements. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Our actual results, performance and achievements may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, without limitation, our ability to execute our business plan, the outcome of pending or future enforcement actions, our ability to expand our technology portfolio, the enforceability of our patents, the continued use of our technologies in the market, the development of products and services for the consumer and enterprise market, the sufficiency of our existing cash and investments to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months, the development or continuation of a liquid trading market for our securities, regulatory developments and other factors described under Item 1A. Risk Factors, as set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 and any subsequent quarterly or current reports. The following discussion should also be read in conjunction with the audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, as set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 and any subsequent quarterly or current reports, including this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The Company will continue to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). Forward-looking statements speak only as of the dates specified in such filings. Except as expressly required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after any such date, whether as a result of new information or future events or otherwise. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this report or that may be made elsewhere from time to time by us, or on our behalf. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. 32 Table of Contents Overview We operate a cybersecurity business, focused on licensing and enforcement, developing mobile security applications, providing advisory services, and investing in emerging cybersecurity technologies and intellectual property. Operations We operate our cybersecurity business through wholly-owned subsidiaries including, Finjan, Finjan Blue, Finjan Mobile and CybeRisk. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents, related to software and hardware technologies that proactively detect malicious code and thereby protect end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other web and network threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented technologies that are capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based, basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers. The older signature-based methods, were standard in the web and network security industry during the 1990s. As the web and endpoint security industries - known as cybersecurity - have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that our patented technologies continue to be widely used by third parties in a number of market segments. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of our technologies through further licensing and to broaden our technologies and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. As a core element of our continued patent licensing and enforcement business, our management team, having expertise with technology and intellectual property ("IP") monetization, monitors a number of markets and assesses and observes the adoption of our patented technologies in these markets. Our management team, in conjunction with outside legal, technical, and financial experts concludes on a case-by-case basis whether or not they believe that Finjans patented technologies are being used. Based on these observations, we continue to believe our patented technologies are highly relevant in specific cybersecurity technology areas including, but not limited to, endpoint/cloud software, web gateway/internet infrastructure, and networking equipment markets. From that basis, the Company pursues unlicensed entities through licensing, assertion of claims or both to preserve the value of our portfolio in general. This also reinforces the value to existing licensees of the Finjan patent portfolio. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2009, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the enforcement of its patent rights against unauthorized use and, to a lesser extent, income derived from intellectual property licenses granted to third parties for the use of patented technologies that are owned by Finjan. Finjan Blue was founded to support our development and licensing efforts of the IBM Security Patents obtained by Finjan Blue through the Patent Assignment and Support Agreement with IBM. The Agreement, the terms of which are confidential, includes pathways for Finjan and IBM to consider development efforts in the future and provides for the sharing of pertinent institutional knowledge and resources by IBM to Finjan Blue. Finjan Mobile was founded to ensure that mobile devices are protected against spies, phishing and malware attacks. Given the uptrend in mobile device usage coupled with the amount of transient corporate data, the average mobile user presents and represents higher risks of data loss through hacking. The consumer mobile device has become so convenient that consumers often ignore online security and download apps and blindly agree to terms of service, purchase products, pay bills, connect to free Wi-Fi, and not think twice about personal data and photos stored on their devices. As such, in June of 2015, the Company started research and development of security products for mobile devices which not only benefit from technologies developed and patented by Finjan but with the invention of new mobile technologies will help us expand our existing patent portfolio. CybeRisk was founded to deliver global advanced cyber risk and cyber security advisory services. Through a team of employees and consultants, based in East Palo Alto & Tel Aviv, CybeRisk assesses corporate risk exposure and delivers appropriate mitigation strategies. CybeRisk's unique and focused offering, positions CybeRisk as the piece that interconnects the "server room to the board room". As of September 30, 2017, we had 12 employees. We intend to hire or engage additional full-time professionals, employees, and/or consultants in alignment with our growth strategy. Although the market is highly competitive for attracting and retaining highly qualified professionals in our industry, we continue our endeavor to find such candidates for our Company. Our management team and additional personnel that we may hire in the future will be primarily responsible for executing and implementing our licensing and enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and enforcement opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing cybersecurity technologies and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. 33 Table of Contents Industry Trends and Outlook We believe cybersecurity will again be a very active sector in 2018. Cybersecurity is not just another technology but a critical business issue that intersects government, corporations and individual citizens. We have recently seen a number of devastatingly successful cybersecurity breaches targeting high profile government offices and corporations. The full extent of the cost and damage associated with these attacks may not be known for some time. Nonetheless, these attacks are expected to continue, along with their associated and sometimes unprecedented costs. In many cases, it is not just the government or corporation that suffers losses or damages but their clients and customers, who can also fall victim by the breach of their personal and otherwise confidential data. These issues have forced both government and corporations to take a serious look at their vulnerabilities, which will lead to increased spending on cybersecurity infrastructure, including hardware and software, as well as cybersecurity consulting services. Given our 20-year history in the cybersecurity market we have had the benefit of actively participating in the progression on how technology has moved to meet the new threats and demands. We believe this puts us in a unique position to make observations and determine the best course of action in order to make investments in new developing technologies. There is still a limited appreciation for how much personal data is being pushed out over the internet for anyone to capture and unlike desktops and laptop computers, mobile devices do not have the same kind of access to security. We believe this represents a unique opportunity for Finjan to develop products for consumer mobile devices that were once only available to our enterprise customers. As such, we are building upon our current patented technology and migrating it into the mobile platform so consumers can have greater control of their security and personal information We believe that there are some proponents of patent law reform, largely made up of an individual or coalitions of technology corporations that continue to seek statutory limitations on how companies can enforce their patents. In an effort to ensure fair and balanced protections for all good faith patent owners, our executives have dedicated time and resources to actively educate our lawmakers and existing and prospective stakeholders on how certain proposed reforms could harm individual inventors, startups, small companies, the licensing industry and therefore, U.S. innovation and the economy as a whole. Further, since the enactment of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act ("AIA") on September 16, 2011, several aspects of the patent law have been interpreted by the courts, including what constitutes patentable subject matter, inducement of infringement, and (attorney) fee-shifting to the non-prevailing party in the context of litigation, among other issues. Moreover, under AIA, patents previously granted by the USPTO may be reviewed through post-patent grant proceedings such as reexamination or IPR. It is becoming a trend, if not a practice, for accused infringers to petition for reexaminations or IPRs of asserted patents as these proceedings may give the petitioner two bites at the apple. The outcome of the proceedings can range from decisions favorable to the patent holder, favorable to both parties, or favorable to the petitioner. If the outcome is the latter, the value of the challenged patent can be materially reduced or extinguished. Thus, patent rights, including enforcement of such rights against unauthorized use is inherently subject to uncertainties. Future Growth Strategy Our mission, for the foreseeable future, is to build a diversified cybersecurity technology company benefiting from historical investments in technology and patents while expanding into new product and services offerings. We believe our patented technologies continue to hold significant value and we intend to vigorously protect our investment, the value of our existing licensees investments, and the value that technology and intellectual property represents for our shareholders. We are pursuing and will continue to pursue our growth through the following objectives: Develop and Expand Existing Patent Portfolio - We have obtained and endeavor to continue to obtain new patents relating to security technologies through research and development and/or acquisition in the cybersecurity space. For example: On September 13, 2016, Finjan was issued U.S. Patent No. 9,444,844 (844 Patent) covering malicious mobile code runtime monitoring system and methods; On October 5, 2016, Finjan was issued European Patent No. EP 1 810 152 B1 covering method and system for adaptive rule-based contents scanners; On December 20, 2016, Finjan was issued U.S. Patent No. 9,525,680 (680 Patent). The 680 Patent relates to secure communication between a client and a server computer using certificates, even when a non-secure computer intermediates between the client and the server. On January 24, 2017, Finjan Mobile received its first US patent, U.S. Patent No. 9,554,279 ('279 Patent). The patent relates to authorizing a mobile device to access a secure server based in part on whether the mobile device is currently located within an authorized geographical area. 34 Table of Contents Invest in Internal Research & Development through Finjan Mobil e - We continue to pursue internal research and development of security technologies that both relate to Finjan's existing patented inventions as well as new concepts to meet an ever-expanding market need. Since we do not yet have sufficient internal personnel to engage in large-scale research and development, we currently operate this business with limited internal staff focused on strategy and market development while software development is completed under contract with external developers. Products currently available and in development include Finjan Mobile Secure Browser with an integrated VPN and next generation multi-factor authentication security applications utilizing geo-location techniques on mobile devices. On September 6, 2017, Finjan Mobile released VitalSecurity Gen 4.0 Secure Mobile Browser (VitalSecurity 4.0). The patented VitalSecurity 4.0 is a fully functional browser with an integrated VPN for use on Apple and Android platforms, and uses and builds upon the incorporation of Finjan, Inc.'s, core security patented technology. Key features of VitalSecurity 4.0 include: Integrated VPN allows users to connect to virtual locations worldwide Traffic is encrypted and users location is masked from other apps and websites Passcode and opt-in biometric Touch ID security Complete browser functionality including tabs, history, and bookmarks Tracker detection and blocking allow users to effortlessly identify and turn off unwanted trackers on any web page in four categories (Advertising, Analytics, Content, and Social) Virus scanning and security reporting that alerts users to the safety level of every web page visited in three categories (Safe, Suspicious, Danger) VitalSecurity 4.0 is available for download on the IOS and Android platforms in the iTunes and Google Play stores and the VPN can be downloaded for Mac and Windows on FinjanMobile.com The Company continues to explore inorganic growth and acquisition opportunities to complement the vision for Finjan Mobile. Continue to Develop and Invest in CybeRisk - CybeRisk provides services to enterprise customers on a wide variety of threats, current and future issues, and prevention. CybeRisk's advisory services enable customers to accelerate the maturity of their cyber security posture and are intended to augment a company's own security and risk capabilities. We intend to further invest in CybeRisk and grow our cybersecurity advisory services business. This could include one or more of the following: the hiring of additional qualified personnel, and the expansion of the business globally from its current headquarters in East Palo Alto & office in Tel Aviv. Expand our IP Assets through Acquisitions and Strategic Partnerships - We intend to acquire and develop new technologies and invest in intellectual property through strategic partnerships, acquisitions of technology-focused companies, IP portfolios or other assets and other initiatives. We endeavor to identify relevant security technologies and patents that have been, or are anticipated to be, widely adopted by third parties in connection with the manufacture or sale of products and services, and to which we can bring enforcement actions (i.e., licensing or litigation) and other expertise. We may also broaden our technology and patent holdings by working with inventors and universities, acquiring technology companies, investing in research laboratories, start-ups, and by creating strategic partnerships with companies, large and small, seeking to effectively and efficiently monetize their technology and patent assets. While we anticipate that we will initially focus on acquisitions and strategic partnerships involving technologies relating to network, web and endpoint cybersecurity, we may seek to diversify to a broader market in the future. Our experience with monetizing both technologies and patents may be considered valuable by potential acquisition candidates and strategic partners who may lack resources or know-how to effectively and efficiently generate a return for those investments. Through Finjan Blue, we entered into a Patent Assignment and Support Agreement with IBM, effective August 24, 2017. Pursuant to the Patent Assignment Agreement, Finjan Blue acquired select IBM patents in the security sector in exchange for $8.5 million cash, payable as follows: (i) $2.0 million upon execution of the Patent Assignment Agreement and (ii) $6.5 million over the subsequent four years, final payment due August 24, 2021. IBM will support Finjan Blue in its development and licensing of the IBM Security Patents, and provide assistance for such efforts as needed for the term of the Agreement and Finjan Blue will reimburse IBM for reasonable time and out of pocket costs for such assistance, however IBM will not receive further proceeds from such efforts. IBM has reservation of rights with respect to the IBM Security Patents for its current licensees and open source initiatives. Finjan Blue and IBM also agreed to explore further development and licensing opportunities. 35 Table of Contents Continue to Demonstrate Best Practices in Pursuing Licensing Relationships and Enforcing our Patent Rights - In March 2014, we adopted Best Practices to demonstrate our commitment to ethical, transparent and consistent business practices for intellectual property licensing. We called upon and continue to promote industry-wide adoption of a set of best practices, through leadership organizations such as the Licensing Executive Society (LES) and the Open Register of Patent Owners that support technological advancements, investments in innovation, and continued job creation while protected by a robust patent system. In February of 2017, the American National Standards Institute or ANSI had approved LES' application to receive accreditation to become a Standards Development Organization or SDO. With this new endorsement and governance from ANSI, Finjan is moving swiftly to build industry consensus for IP and patent related matters in a number of disciplines. We intend to continue pursuing a proactive campaign that adheres to our best practices guidelines while rigorously protecting our intellectual property rights. We have entered into preliminary discussions with numerous potential licensees in accordance with these Best Practices, but acknowledge that it takes many discussions and many months for preliminary discussions to culminate in a license agreement, if at all. While it is our preference to resolve our patent-related disputes through amicable business solutions, protecting the value of our patented technology is paramount. Although we currently pursue growth initiatives through the above strategies, unforeseen market and industry conditions and new developments may necessitate changes in our strategies. We intend to remain resilient, flexible, and open to new opportunities that benefit our shareholders. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See "NOTE 1 - The Company and summary of significant accounting policies, - Recently issued accounting pronouncements" Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuations of Income, Expenses and Cash Flows Related to Licensing and Enforcement Our licenses and Judgments may not be recurring, and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable Judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until the terms are fixed and determinable or litigation is finalized (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants, and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business, our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. 36 Table of Contents Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation Our Board of Directors has adopted the Finjan Holdings 2014 Incentive Plan, which our shareholders approved at our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders on July 10, 2014, pursuant to which 2,196,836 shares of common stock were originally authorized for issuance. At our 2017 annual meeting of stockholders on June 21, 2017, our shareholders authorized an increase of 1,000,000 shares to the Finjan Holdings, Inc., Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan (as amended, the 2014 Plan) . A total of 462,046 restricted stock units and 1,620,507 options remain outstanding as of September 30, 2017, under the 2013 and 2014 Plans. We expect that future equity-based awards will continue to be made under the 2014 Plan to our directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods that may not be comparable to past periods. We continue to increase the number of our employees to help execute our strategy in the cybersecurity business and support our public company functions, and expect to hire additional employees in both capacities. Accordingly, we will continue to incur compensation expenses in future periods that we did not incur during the historical period presented in our financial statements. Results of Operations Three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 compared with three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 For Three Months Ended September 30, For Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Change 2017 2016 Change % % (In millions, except percentages) Revenue $ $ 1.1 $ (1.1 ) (100 )% $ 27.1 $ 10.0 $ 17.1 171 % Cost of revenues % 4.0 2.2 1.8 82 % Gross profit 1.1 (1.1 ) (100 )% 23.1 7.8 15.3 196 % Gross Margin % 100 % 85 % 78 % Operating expenses: Research and development 0.7 0.2 0.5 250 % 1.1 0.4 0.7 175 % Sales, general and administrative (1) 5.0 4.2 0.8 19 % 14.3 11.0 3.3 30 % Total operating expenses 5.7 4.4 1.3 30 % 15.4 11.4 4.0 35 % Other Income Change in fair value of warrant liability 1.5 1.5 % 1.5 1.5 % Provisions for income taxes % 0.3 0.3 % Net income (loss) $ (4.2 ) $ (3.3 ) $ (0.9 ) 28 % $ 8.9 $ (3.6 ) $ 12.5 347 % (1) Includes stock based compensation $ 0.2 $ 0.2 $ % $ 0.6 $ 0.7 $ (0.1 ) (14.3 )% Revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 decreased 100% or $1.1 million to nil and increased 171% or $17.1 million to $27.1 million, compared to $1.1 million and $10.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively. Revenue is derived from multiple license agreements that we entered into with third-parties following negotiations pursuant to our licensing and enforcement program. Revenue is determined by the timing of these licensing agreements and can vary period to period. Costs of revenues include legal fees directly associated with our licensing and enforcement program and were nil and $4.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively and nil and $2.2 million for the same periods in 2016. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was nil and 85% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively, versus 100% and 78% for the same periods in 2016, respectively. We accrue and/or recognize cost of goods sold 37 Table of Contents upfront when initially recognizing a new agreement, while a portion of the revenue is recognized when it becomes fixed and determinable, often over several quarters. As a result, margins between periods can and do often vary significantly. Research and development expenses were $0.7 million and $1.1 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, respectively, representing an increase of $0.5 million or 250% and $0.7 million or 175%, respectively, as compared to the same periods in 2016. Our focus on research and development consisted primarily of professional services associated with the development of our mobile security application products. We continue to accelerate our efforts in security application products, including mobile. Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 of $5.0 million and $14.3 million, respectively, an increase of $0.8 million or 19% and $3.3 million or 30% as compared to $4.2 million and $11.0 million for the same periods ended September 30, 2016, respectively. SG&A expenses are largely related to litigation, headcount and amortization of the IBM patent assignment acquired this quarter. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 litigation expenses increased by $0.6 million or 28% and $2.1 million or 42%, respectively, to $2.9 million and $7.2 million from $2.3 million and $5.1 million during the same periods in 2016, respectively. These costs are primarily due to the timing of various outstanding actions as described in "Note 8 - LITIGATION, CLAIMS AND ASSESSMENTS " . Personnel expenses were $0.7 million and $2.9 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, a decrease of $0.1 million or 13% and an increase of $0.5 million or 20%, respectively, as compared to $0.7 million and $2.5 million during the same periods in 2016, respectively. Operations related expenses were $0.5 million and $1.0 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, an increase of $0.3 million for both three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, as compared to the same periods in 2016. This was primarily due to the amortization of the IBM Patent Assignment agreement during the period. Other income for both three and nine months ended September 2017, of $1.5 million was a result of re-valuation of the warrant liability for the Warrant that was issued to Soryn HLDR in the second quarter of 2017. The provision for income taxes of $0.3 million is tied to the net income recognized during the year. There was a loss in the same period in 2016 resulting in no taxes being recognized during that time. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expect to continue devoting significant capital resources to the litigations in process and any other litigation we pursue. We also expect to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy, and attract and retain qualified personnel on a full-time basis. In addition: On November 21, 2013, we made a $5 million commitment to invest in an innovation fund through JVP to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies, of which $2.7 million of the commitment remains unfunded as of September 30, 2017. The fund can make a call on our remaining $2.7 million commitment at any time. We expect to make payments to honor this commitment if and when capital calls are made by the fund. We have sufficient cash on hand to fund such obligations. On April 21, 2017, we entered into a $3.9 million agreement with Avira, Inc., to provide services to support our VPN Platform effective July 1, 2017, payable over 3 years in quarterly payments of $0.3 million. As of September 30, 2017, the Company has a $3.6 million contractual obligation due over the next 11 quarters. We entered into a $8.5 million Patent Assignment and Support Agreement with IBM effective August 24, 2017. As of September 30, 2017, the Company has a $6.5 million contractual obligation due over the next 4 years, with final payment August 24, 2021. 38 Table of Contents We lease our corporate headquarters office in East Palo Alto, CA and offices in New York, New York, Menlo Park, California and Tel Aviv, Israel. Under the terms of the four leases, we owe minimum lease obligations of $0.6 million over the remaining life of the leases, of which $0.5 million is for the East Palo Alto headquarters lease. During 2015, we entered into subleases for each of the Menlo Park and New York offices for essentially the remaining duration of the leases. As of September 30, 2017, the total future minimum lease payments to be received under the Menlo Park and New York subleases were $0.03 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Our licensing agreements provide for installment payments totaling $8.4 million through March 2019, comprised of $5.9 million due by first quarter of 2018 and $2.5 million due first quarter of 2019. Revenue will be recognized in accordance with our revenue recognition policy (See "NOTE 1 - The Company and summary of significant accounting policies, - Revenue Recognition") The amount and timing of cash flows from our licensing and enforcement activities are subject to uncertainties stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the success of our licensing efforts and the outcome of enforcement actions. As a result, our income and cash flows may vary significantly from period to period. September 30, 2017 December 31, 2017 (in millions) Cash & cash equivalents $ 33.4 $ 13.7 As of September 30, 2017, we had $33.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, an increase of $19.7 million from $13.7 million at December 31, 2016. This is primarily attributable to $26.6 million received from financing activities, $8.8 million provided by operating activities, less $1.9 million used in investing activities, and $13.8 million cash used in financing activities to redeem and retire our Series A Preferred Stock. Based on current forecasts, management believes that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital for at least the next 12 months from the date of filing of this quarterly report. Such forecasts include approximately $5.9 million of licensing revenue to be received by March 31, 2018 under existing contracts. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. If we need additional funding, either debt or equity, to support our licensing and enforcement activities, planned research and development activities and to better solidify our financial position, it may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Under such circumstances, if we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, the Company may be required to curtail or terminate some or all our business plans. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 8.8 $ (1.0 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (1.9 ) $ (0.6 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 12.8 $ 7.0 Cash flows from Operating Activities : Net cash provided by our operating activities of $8.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 is primarily due to net income of $8.9 million, plus $0.3 million in depreciation and amortization and $0.6 million of stock-based compensation, $0.5 million decrease in operating assets and liabilities and $1.5 million change in warrant liability. Net cash used in our operating activities of $1.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 is primarily due to a $3.6 million loss during the period, offset by $1.9 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities and $0.7 million of stock based compensation. 39 Table of Contents Cash used in Investing Activities : During the nine months ended September 30, 2017 cash used in investing activities of $1.9 million was primarily due to the purchase of assets under the Patent Purchase Agreement, cash used in investing activities was $0.6 million for the same period in 2016, primarily related to the purchase of additional investment in accordance with commitment to the JVP fund. Cash provided by Financing Activities: Net cash provided by financing activities was $12.8 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 versus $7.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2016. For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, cash provided by financing activities primarily resulted from the Series A-1 Preferred Stock Financing totaling $14.4 million and a Common Shares financing for $12.0 million, offset by redeeming and retiring Series A Preferred Stock Financing of $13.8 million. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, net cash provided by financing activities primarily resulted from the Series A Preferred Stock Financing in May 2016, net of redemptions in the period. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. 40 Table of Contents