Item 2. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following discussion includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, about Finjan Holdings, Inc., (the Company or Finjan Holdings), financial condition and results of operations, including discussions about managements expectations for the business. These include statements regarding our expectations, intentions, beliefs and projections about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts or by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, potential, should, will, will be, would, and the negative of these terms and similar expressions, but this is not an exclusive way of identifying such statements. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Our actual results, performance and achievements may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, without limitation, our ability to execute our business plan, the outcome of pending or future enforcement actions, our ability to expand our technology portfolio, the enforceability of our patents, the continued use of our technologies in the market, the development of products and services for the consumer and enterprise market, the sufficiency of our existing cash and investments to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months, the development or continuation of a liquid trading market for our securities, regulatory developments and other factors described under Item 1A. Risk Factors, as set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 and any subsequent quarterly or current reports. The following discussion should also be read in conjunction with the audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, as set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 and any subsequent quarterly or current reports, including this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The Company will continue to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). Forward-looking statements speak only as of the dates specified in such filings. Except as expressly required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after any such date, whether as a result of new information or future events or otherwise. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this report or that may be made elsewhere from time to time by us, or on our behalf. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. 18 Table of Contents Overview We operate a cybersecurity business, focused on licensing and enforcement, providing advisory services, developing mobile security applications, and investing in emerging cybersecurity technologies and intellectual property. Continuing Operations We operate our cybersecurity business through wholly-owned subsidiaries including, Finjan, Finjan Mobile and CybeRisk. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents, related to software and hardware technologies that proactively detect malicious code and thereby protect end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other web and network threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented technologies that are capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based, basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers. The older signature-based methods, were standard in the web and network security industry during the 1990s. As the web and endpoint security industries - known as cybersecurity - have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that our patented technologies continue to be widely used by third parties in a number of market segments. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of our technologies through further licensing and to broaden our technologies and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. As a core element of our continued patent licensing and enforcement business, our management team, having expertise with technology and intellectual property ("IP") monetization, monitors a number of markets and assesses and observes the adoption of our patented technologies in these markets. Our management team, in conjunction with outside legal, technical, and financial experts concludes on a case-by-case basis whether or not they believe that Finjans patented technologies are being used. Based on these observations, we continue to believe our patented technologies are highly relevant in specific cybersecurity technology areas including, but not limited to, endpoint/cloud software, web gateway/internet infrastructure, and networking equipment markets. From that basis, the Company pursues unlicensed entities through licensing, assertion of claims or both to preserve the value of our portfolio in general. This also reinforces the value to existing licensees of the Finjan patent portfolio. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2009, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the enforcement of its patent rights against unauthorized use and, to a lesser extent, income derived from intellectual property licenses granted to third parties for the use of patented technologies that are owned by Finjan. Finjan Mobile was founded to ensure that mobile devices are protected against spies, phishing and malware attacks. Given the uptrend in mobile device usage coupled with the amount of transient corporate data, the average mobile user presents and represents higher risks of data loss through hacking. The consumer mobile device has become so convenient that consumers often ignore online security and download apps and blindly agree to terms of service, purchase products, pay bills, connect to free Wi-Fi, and not think twice about personal data and photos stored on their devices. As such, in June of 2015, the Company returned to the research and development world with the creation of security products for mobile devices. CybeRisk was founded in 2015 to deliver global advanced cyber risk and cyber security advisory services. Through a team of employees and consultants, based in North America, Europe and the Middle East, CybeRisk assesses corporate risk exposure and delivers appropriate mitigation strategies. Its unique and focused offering positions CybeRisk as the piece that interconnects the "server room to the board room". As of March 31, 2016, we had 14 employees. We intend to hire or engage additional full-time professionals, employees, and/or consultants in alignment with our growth strategy. Although the market is highly competitive for attracting and retaining highly qualified professionals in our industry, we continue our endeavor to find such candidates for our Company. Our management team and additional personnel that we may hire in the future will be primarily responsible for executing and implementing our licensing and enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and enforcement opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing cybersecurity technologies and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. 19 Table of Contents Industry Trends and Outlook We believe that 2016 may again be an active year for patent law reform although intellectual property does not seem to be a key issue during the presidential election cycle. We believe that proponents of patent law reform, largely made up of individual or coalitions of powerful technology corporations continue to seek severe statutory limitations on how companies - specifically those who own patents and do not make product covered by such patents - can enforce their patents against companies who make products. The U.S. Congress is considering proposals from all constituents. In an effort to ensure fair and balanced protections for all good faith patent owners, our executives have dedicated time and resources to actively educate our lawmakers and existing and prospective stakeholders on how certain proposed reforms could harm individual inventors, startups, small companies, the licensing industry and therefore, U.S. innovation and the U.S. economy as a whole. Further, since the enactment of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act ("AIA") on September 16, 2011, several aspects of the patent law have been interpreted by the courts, including what constitutes patentable subject matter, inducement of infringement, and (attorney) fee-shifting to the non-prevailing party in the context of litigation, among other issues. Moreover, under AIA, patents previously granted by the USPTO may be reviewed through post-patent grant proceedings such as reexamination or IPR. It is becoming a trend, if not a practice, for accused infringers to petition for reexaminations or IPRs of asserted patents as these proceedings may give the petitioner two bites at the apple. The outcome of the proceedings can range from decisions favorable to the patent holder, favorable to both parties, or favorable to the petitioner. If the outcome is the latter, the value of the challenged patent can be materially reduced or extinguished. Thus, patent rights, including enforcement of such rights against unauthorized use is inherently subject to uncertainties. We also believe cybersecurity issues will again be a very active sector in 2016. Cybersecurity is not just another technology but a critical business issue that intersects government, corporations and individual citizens. We have recently seen a number of devastatingly successful cybersecurity breaches targeting high profile government offices and corporations. The full extent of the cost and damage associated with these attacks may not be known for some time. Nonetheless, these attacks are expected to continue, along with their associated and sometimes unprecedented costs. In many cases, it is not just the government or corporation that suffers losses or damages but their clients and customers, who can also fall victim by the breach of their personal and otherwise confidential data. These issues have forced both government and corporations to take a serious look at their vulnerabilities, which will lead to increased spending on cybersecurity infrastructure, including hardware and software, as well as cybersecurity consulting services. Future Growth Strategy Our mission, for the foreseeable future, is to build a diversified cybersecurity company benefiting from historical investments in technology and patents while expanding into new product and services offerings. We believe our patented technologies continue to hold significant value and we intend to vigorously protect our investment, the value of our existing licensees investments, and the value that technology and intellectual property represents for our shareholders. We are pursuing and will continue to pursue our growth through the following strategies: Develop and Expand Existing Patent Portfolio - We have obtained and endeavor to continue to obtain new patents relating to security technologies through research and development and/or acquisition in the cybersecurity space. For example, on: September 22, 2015 Finjan was issued U.S. Patent No. 9,141,786 ('786 Patent) covering our new secure mobile browser application; November 17, 2015 Finjan was issued U.S. Patent No. 9,189,621 ('621 Patent) covering malicious mobile code runtime monitoring system and methods; December 22, 2015 Finjan was issued U.S. Patent No. 9,219,755 (755 Patent) covering malicious mobile code runtime monitoring system and methods; Additionally , as part of the consideration for granting a patent license to F-Secure in April 2015, we acquired two of F-Secures patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 8,474,048 and 7,769,991, including among other things, all progeny applications or patents, foreign counterparts and reissues) that are complementary to our existing patent portfolio. Continue to Develop and Invest in CybeRisk - CybeRisk provides services to enterprise customers on a wide variety of threats, current and future issues, and prevention. CybeRisk's advisory services enable customers to accelerate 20 Table of Contents the maturity of their cyber security posture and are intended to augment a company's own security and risk capabilities. We intend to further invest in CybeRisk and grow our cybersecurity advisory services business. This could include one or more of the following: the hiring of additional qualified personnel, and the expansion of the business globally from its current headquarters in Tel Aviv. Invest in Internal Research & Development through Finjan Mobile - We continue to pursue internal research and development of security technologies that both relate to Finjan's existing patented inventions as well as new concepts to meet an ever expanding market need. Since we do not yet have sufficient internal personnel to engage in large-scale research and development, we currently operate this business with limited internal staff focused on strategy and market development while software development is completed under contract with external developers. Products currently available and in development include Finjan Mobile Secure Browser and next generation multi-factor authentication security applications utilizing geo-location techniques on mobile devices. The Company continues to explore inorganic growth and acquisition opportunities to complement the vision for Finjan Mobile. Expand our IP Assets through Acquisitions and Strategic Partnerships - We intend to acquire and develop new technologies and invest in intellectual property through strategic partnerships, acquisitions of technology-focused companies, IP portfolios or other assets and other initiatives. We endeavor to identify relevant security technologies and patents that have been, or are anticipated to be, widely adopted by third parties in connection with the manufacture or sale of products and services, and to which we can bring enforcement actions (i.e., licensing or litigation) and other expertise. We may also broaden our technology and patent holdings by working with inventors and universities, acquiring technology companies, investing in research laboratories, start-ups, and by creating strategic partnerships with companies, large and small, seeking to effectively and efficiently monetize their technology and patent assets. While we anticipate that we will initially focus on acquisitions and strategic partnerships involving technologies relating to network, web and endpoint cybersecurity, we may seek to diversify to a broader market in the future. Our experience with monetizing both technologies and patents may be considered valuable by potential acquisition candidates and strategic partners who may lack resources or know-how to effectively and efficiently generate a return for those investments. Continue to Demonstrate Best Practices in Pursuing Licensing Relationships and Enforcing our Patent Rights - In March 2014, we adopted Licensing Best Practices to demonstrate our commitment to ethical, transparent and consistent business practices for intellectual property licensing. We called upon and continue to promote industry-wide adoption of a set of licensing best practices, through leadership organizations such as the Licensing Executive Society and the Open Register of Patent Owners that support technological advancements, investments in innovation, and continued job creation while protected by a robust patent system. We intend to continue pursuing a proactive licensing campaign that adheres to our best practices guidelines while rigorously protecting our intellectual property rights. We have entered into preliminary discussions with numerous potential licensees in accordance with these Licensing Best Practices, but acknowledge that it takes many discussions and many months for preliminary discussions to culminate in a license agreement, if at all. While it is our preference to resolve our patent-related disputes through amicable business solutions, protecting the value of our patented technology is paramount. Although we currently pursue growth initiatives through the above strategies, unforeseen market and industry conditions and new developments may necessitate changes in our strategies. We intend to remain resilient, flexible, and open to new opportunities that benefit our shareholders. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February, 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2015-02 Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis that amends the current consolidation guidance. The amendments affect both the variable interest entity and voting interest entity consolidation models. The new guidance became effective beginning January 1, 2016 and did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15 Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to continue as a Going Concern, which provides guidance on determining when and how to disclose going-concern uncertainties in the financial statements. The new standard requires management to perform interim and annual assessments of an entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year of the date the financial statements are issued. An entity must provide certain disclosures if conditions or events raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern. The ASU applies to all entities and is effective for annual periods ending after December 15, 2016, and interim periods thereafter, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect of the standard on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 21 Table of Contents In February, 2016, FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02 Leases that requires a lessee to recognize the assets and liabilities that arise from operating leases. A lessee should recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect of the standard on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In March 2016, FASB issued ASU No. 2016-07 "Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting" . The amendments require upon qualifying for the equity method of accounting that no retroactive adjustment of the investment be made. In addition, the amendments require that an entity that has an available-for-sale equity security that becomes qualified for the equity method of accounting, recognize through earnings the unrealized holding gain or loss in accumulated other comprehensive income at the date the investment becomes qualified for use of the equity method. The amendments are effective for all entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2016. The amendments should be applied prospectively upon their effective date to increases in the level of ownership interest or degree of influence that result in the adoption of the equity method. Early Adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect of the standard on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net)" . The amendments are intended to improve the operability and understandability of the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations by amending certain existing illustrative examples and adding additional illustrative examples to assist in the application of the guidance. The effective date and transition of these amendments is the same as the effective date and transition of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). Public entities should apply the amendments in ASU 2014-09 for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods therein. We are currently evaluating the effect of the new revenue standard on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09 Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting . Several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions are simplified, including: (a) income tax consequences; (b) classification of awards as either equity or liabilities; and (c) classification on the statement of cash flows. The amendments are effective for public companies for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for any interim or annual period. We are currently evaluating the effect of this standard on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2016-10): identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing . The amendments add further guidance on identifying performance obligations and also improve the operability and understandability of the licensing implementation guidance. The amendments do not change the core principle of the guidance in Topic 606. The effective date and transition requirements for the amendments are the same as the effective date and transition requirements in Topic 606. Public entities should apply the amendments for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods therein. Early application for public entities is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. We are currently evaluating the effect of this standard on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures Other recent accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by FASB or other standards-setting bodies that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption. Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuations of Income, Expenses and Cash Flows Related to Licensing and Enforcement Our licenses and Judgments may not be recurring, and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of 22 Table of Contents factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable Judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until the terms are fixed and determinable or litigation is finalized (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants, and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business, our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation Our Board of Directors has adopted the Finjan Holdings 2014 Incentive Plan (2014 Plan), which our shareholders approved at our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders on July 10, 2014, pursuant to which 2,196,836 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance. A total of 308,057 restricted stock units and 1,518,331 options remain outstanding as of March 31, 2016, under the 2014 Plan. We expect that future equity-based awards will continue to be made under the 2014 Plan to our directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods that may not be comparable to past periods. We continue to increase the number of our employees to help execute our strategy in the cybersecurity business and support our public company functions, and expect to hire additional employees in both capacities. Accordingly, we will continue to incur compensation expenses in future periods that we did not incur during the historical period presented in our financial statements. Results of Operations Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were $2.3 million compared to nil for the same period in 2015. This $2.3 million is comprised of $2 million from a September 2014 license agreement and $0.3 million from a April 2015 license agreement. A final installment of $1 million is due on the September 2014 license on or before January 2017. Revenue from the April 2015 license is now complete. The Companys recent focus on research and development, consisting primarily of professional services associated with the development of mobile security application products, resulting in research and development expense of $0.05 million , during the three months ended March 31, 2016 and nil for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2015. The Companys operating expenses consist primarily of selling, general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation, accounting, legal and other professional fees. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $0.8 million to $3.4 million, or 19%, as compared to the same period in 2015. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, litigation expenses decreased $0.9 million and compensation expenses decreased $0.4 million, as compared to the same period in 2015. This was offset by an increase in expense for our advisory services of $0.3 million, and nil for the same period in 2015, as services commenced July 2015. Operations related expenses increased by $0.2 million, for the three months ended March 31, 2016, as compared to the same period in 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expect to continue devoting significant capital resources to the litigations in process and any other litigation we pursue. We also expect to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy, and attract and retain qualified personnel on a full-time basis. In addition, on November 21, 2013, we made a $5 million commitment to invest in an innovation fund through JVP to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies, of which $3.3 million of the commitment remains unfunded. The fund can make 23 Table of Contents a call on our remaining $3.3 million commitment at any time until 2018. We expect to make payments to honor this commitment if and when capital calls are made by the fund. We have sufficient cash on hand to fund such obligations. The Company leases its corporate headquarters office in Silicon Valley, and offices in New York, New York, Menlo Park, California and Tel Aviv, Israel. Under the terms of the four leases, the Company owes minimum lease obligations of $1.8 million over the remaining life of the leases, of which $1.1 million is for the Silicon Valley headquarters lease. During 2015 the Company entered into subleases for each of the Menlo Park and New York offices for essentially the remaining duration of the lease. As of March 31, 2016, the total future minimum lease payments to be received under the Menlo Park and New York subleases was $320,000 and $413,000, respectively. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally historical and future proceeds from licenses, settlements and judgments in connection with our patent enforcement and licensing activities. On September 24, 2014, and during 2015, Finjan entered into licensing agreements that provides for installment payments through January, 2017. The amount and timing of cash flows from our licensing and enforcement activities are subject to uncertainties stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the success of our licensing efforts and the outcome of enforcement actions. As a result, our income and cash flows may vary significantly from period to period. As of March 31, 2016, we had approximately $5 million of cash and cash equivalents and $2.7 million of working capital. The decrease in our cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1.1 million from $6.1 million on December 31, 2015 is primarily attributable to approximately $3.4 million used in operations, offset by approximately $2.3 million received from license agreements. Based on current forecasts and assumptions, management believes that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months from the date of filing this quarterly report. Such forecasts include approximately $3.7 million of licensing revenue to be received by January 13, 2017 under existing contracts. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. To insure against any such difficulties, we may raise additional capital to fund licensing and enforcement actions, planned research and development activities and to better solidify our financial position. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Further, if the Company is unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, the Company may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of its business plans. Cash flows used in Operating Activities : Finjans net cash used in operating activities decreased by $1.4 million, or 58%, to $1.0 million of cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2016, as compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to a decrease in legal fees and general and administrative expenses, partially offset by revenue from licensing agreements entered into during 2014 and 2015. Cash used in Investing Activities : During the three months ended March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015, cash used in investing activities was deemed a non-material amount. Financing Activities : During the three months ended March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2015, cash flows from financing activities was deemed a non-material amount. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements.