Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS under Recent Financing Activities. On January 24, 2008, we acquired the assets, including the intellectual property, of Waste Recovery Industries, LLC (WRI). This acquisition makes us the exclusive owner of the proprietary technology and process known as the High Temperature Liquid Composting (HTLC) system, which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and solid organic-based fertilizer and feed products. Also on January 24, 2008, we acquired the net assets of United Organic Products, LLC (UOP), which was under common ownership with WRI. With this acquisition, we acquired a leading liquid fertilizer product line, as well as the Gonzales facility, which is a production facility that services a West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. Our Revenue Sources Our revenue comes from two sources: tip fees and product sales. Waste haulers pay tip fees to us for accepting food waste generated by food distributors such as grocery stores, produce docks, fish markets and food processors, and by hospitality venues such as hotels, restaurants, convention centers and airports. Revenue also comes from the customers who purchase our products. Our products possess a combination of nutritional, disease suppression and soil amendment characteristics. The products are sold in both dry and liquid form and are stable with an extended shelf life compared to other organic fertilizers. Among other uses, the liquid product is expected to be used to mitigate powdery mildew, a leaf fungus that restricts the flow of water and nutrients to plants. Our products can be used either on a stand-alone basis or in combination with more traditional petrochemical-based fertilizers and crop protection products. Based on growth trials we have conducted with local farmers, company-sponsored research, increased environmental awareness and trends in consumer food preferences, we believe our products will have demand in the agribusiness, turf management and retail markets. We also expect to benefit from increased regulatory focus on food waste processing and on environmentally friendly growing practices. 2 Table of Contents Our Woodbridge Facility On June 2, 2006, we obtained a long-term lease for a site in a portion of an industrial building in Woodbridge, New Jersey that the landlord modified and that we equipped as our first internally constructed waste conversion facility. Our conversion process has been approved and is included in the Middlesex County and New Jersey State Solid Waste Management Plan. We have a Class C recycling permit, which is the primary environmental permit for this project. We are currently producing both liquid and dry product at the facility. Our Woodbridge facility receives raw material from the New York-Northern New Jersey metropolitan area. It is located near the confluence of two major highways in northern New Jersey, providing efficient access for the delivery of feedstock from throughout this geographic area. During the second quarter 2008, we began to record tip fee and during the fourth quarter 2008 we began to record product sales revenue. Nevertheless we are currently operating at less than full capacity at the facility. At full capacity, the Woodbridge facility is expected to process approximately 78,000 tons of food waste and produce approximately 9,900 tons of dry product and approximately 10,000 tons of liquid annually. During 2009, we generated revenue from this facility in the form of tip fees of approximately $127,000 and product sales of approximately $349,000. In order for this facility to be cash flow positive, we estimate that product and tip fee sales would need to be in a range of $450,000 to $550,000 per month. We estimate that the product can be sold in the range of $400 to $700 per ton based on the market to which it is sold. Based on the above, we would have to produce and sell approximately 45-55% of the capacity of the Woodbridge facility to be cash flow positive and until our sales and production volume reach that level, we will not be cash flow positive and therefore we have allocated some of the funds raised in our October 2009 public offering for future working capital purposes. In early November 2009, during routine maintenance, we discovered corrosion in the walls of one of our 120,000 gallon International Bio Recovery (IBR) digesters and determined that the corrosion was due to our manufacturing process and the unsatisfactory performance of a protective coating that was applied at the time of installation. Through subsequent wall thickness testing we determined that the corrosion was significant in two digesters and that we would not be able to use those digesters for their intended purpose in our manufacturing process and that they would have to be repaired or replaced. The IBR digesters were operated using the Enhanced Autothermal Thermophilic Aerobic Digestion (EATAD) technology which was granted to us pursuant to an exclusive know-how license agreement under which we could use IBRs proprietary EATAD technology for the design, construction and operation of facilities within a 31.25 mile radius from City Hall in New York City for the conversion of food waste into solid and liquid organic material. We considered the most cost effective solutions to the corrosion matter, including the installation of stainless steel liners into the two 120,000 gallon digesters or the installation of additional CLF digesters, two of which are already installed and working at the facility. We determined the most cost effective and efficient solution is to utilize the CLF digesters, which are the digester units used at our Gonzales facility and are the ones which operate using our proprietary HTLC technology. These digesters are smaller in capacity and they have shown through the operation of our Gonzales facility, to be reliable and effective in the production of organic fertilizer products. Currently, the Woodbridge facility is operating at approximately 20% of capacity. Our plan is to gauge the demand for our liquid product, and as the demand increases, we will add production capacity by adding additional CLF digesters. We anticipate that it will take 8 CLF digesters to bring the facility to 100% capacity at a cost of approximately $1.8 million. While we had previously used the IBR digester tanks at the Woodbridge facility, we believe that the CLF digesters that utilize our proprietary technology provide for a more efficient operation at the Woodbridge facility. We believe the CLF digesters are easier to operate and maintain, and we have found that using the CLF digester tanks has minimized or eliminated the odor issues previously faced by the Woodbridge facility. Throughout 2009, our production at the plant was limited by odor issues to approximately 20% of capacity and therefore the corrosion issues we faced in fourth quarter 2009 has not affected our ability to produce product and meet current sales demand. However, because we believe that we have corrected the odor issues and we anticipate increased sales throughout 2010, we may face a timing related issue regarding increasing production capabilities and fulfilling the sales orders increase. If such a timing issue should occur, we may be unable to generate positive cash flow from the Woodbridge facility as quickly as we had originally anticipated. During this period of diminished production capacity we are looking at and acting to lower operating costs at the facility in order to decrease cash requirements. 3 Table of Contents Our decision to bring the Woodbridge facility up to 100% capacity by utilizing our proprietary technology instead of the EATAD technology has caused us to recognize that certain equipment and systems originally installed at the facility will no longer be utilized. The net book value cost of the equipment, systems and related technology licenses is approximately $3.9 million. We have recognized an impairment charge related to those assets in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009, which is further discussed in Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS and in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements. We feel that over time, assuming an increase in sales, this expense will be offset by lower operating costs related to the HTLC technology. In addition, we are investigating various alternative legal remedies that we may have under warranty. As of December 31, 2009, we had five outstanding term notes due to our New Jersey construction vendors of approximately $3.2 million. We owed approximately $2.0 million to one construction vendor and on November 19, 2009 we entered into an agreement with this construction vendor that required us to pay a total of $2,029,000, with the first payment of $1,000,000 paid upon execution of the term note and the balance of $1,029,000 payable in eighteen level monthly payments of principal and interest calculated at 6% per annum. The monthly payments began January 1, 2010. This construction vendor had previously filed a construction lien on our Woodbridge facility and had commenced a lawsuit to enforce that lien. According to terms of the agreement, the construction lien claim and related lawsuit was suspended during the eighteen month payment period and will be released completely upon final payment. There are no outstanding claims by any construction vendors at the Woodbridge facility. Our Gonzales Facility On January 24, 2008, we acquired the net assets of UOP which was under common ownership with WRI. With this transaction, we acquired a leading liquid fertilizer product line, as well as the Gonzales facility, which is a state-of-the-art production facility that services a strong West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. This facility is operational and began to generate revenues for us in February 2008. The purchase price of $2,500,000 was paid in cash of $1,500,000 and a convertible note payable of $1,000,000. The note matures on January 1, 2011, has an interest rate of 7% per annum, is payable monthly in arrears, and is convertible into our common stock at the option of the holder at a price equal to the average closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market for the five days preceding conversion. As of December 31, 2009, the convertible note payable had a remaining principal balance of approximately $373,000 and the holder had converted approximately $316,000 in principal and interest on the note into 281,500 shares of our common stock. On January 24, 2008, we entered into a 10-year lease for land in Gonzales, California, where our Gonzales facility is located. The land is leased from Valley Land Holdings, LLC, or VLH, a California limited liability company whose sole member is a former officer and director of Converted Organics Inc. The lease provides for an initial monthly rent of $9,000 for 2008, after which the lease payments increase by 3% per year during the term of the lease. The lease is also renewable for three five-year terms after the expiration of the initial 10-year term. In addition, we own the Gonzales facility and the operating equipment used in the facility. The consolidated financial statements included VLH because VLH had been deemed to be a variable interest entity of the Company as it was the primary beneficiary of that variable interest entity following the acquisition of the net assets of UOP. VLHs assets and liabilities consist primarily of cash, land and a mortgage note payable on the land on which the California facility is located. Its operations consist of rental income on the land from the Company and related operating expenses. In 2009, the sole member of VLH contributed cash and property to VLH in a recapitalization. VLH has henceforth been sufficiently capitalized and is no longer considered to be a variable interest entity of the Company. The Company has deconsolidated VLH as a variable interest entity as of April 1, 2009 in its financial statements. The Gonzales facility generated revenue during 2009 of approximately $2.1 million. We plan to continue to increase sales by channeling efforts into the turf and retail markets, which we believe to be more profitable, by generating tip fees from receiving additional quantities of food processing waste and by reducing the amount of raw material and freight costs currently associated with the production process. In addition, we have plans to add capacity to the Gonzales plant, whereby the plant will be able to produce approximately three times its current production and, depending upon market demand for solid fertilizer products, will be capable of producing both liquid and solid products. We have completed certain aspects of the planned upgrades which allow us to receive solid food waste for processing but have delayed the upgrades which would allow us to produce dry product. The 4 Table of Contents remaining upgrades have been delayed due to possessing and obtaining the proper building permits and market demand for a solid fertilizer product from the Gonzales facility. The Gonzales facility began to generate positive cash flow from operations in June 2009 and since that time has remained cash flow positive. We estimate that the facility, in its current configuration and based on current market prices, has the capacity to generate monthly sales in the range of $350,000 to $400,000. If sales increase above the current per month level, we expect the additional cash flow from the Gonzales facility will be used to offset operating expenses at the corporate level. Pro Forma Financial Information Introduction The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information gives effect to the Gonzales facility acquisition and related financings as if they had occurred on January 1, 2008 and is based upon available information and certain assumptions that we believe are reasonable. The unaudited supplemental pro forma information does not purport to represent what our financial condition or results of operations would actually have been had these transactions in fact occurred as of the dates indicated above or to project our results of operations for the period indicated or for any other period. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Revenues (in thousands) $ 1,548 Net loss (in thousands) (16,232 ) Net loss per share basic and diluted (2.71 ) Current assets (in thousands) 7,230 Total assets (in thousands) 32,618 Current liabilities (in thousands) (9,474 ) Total liabilities (in thousands) (27,571 ) Total equity (deficit) (in thousands) 5,047 5 Table of Contents Future Expansion of Business In addition to our Gonzales and Woodbridge facilities, our strategic plan calls for the continued development of our licensing program, the production of a smaller capacity unit to be used by us or sold to third parties, the construction of additional facilities and the potential acquisition of other environmentally sustainable companies that would further our sustainable business model. To date, we have undertaken the following activities in the following markets to prepare for future expansion of business: We have begun the development of smaller capacity operating units, namely the Scalable Modular AeRobic Technology (SMART) units that are suitable for processing 5 to 50 tons of waste per day, depending on owner/user preference. The semi-portable units will be capable of operating indoors or outdoors, depending on certain criteria, and may be as sophisticated or as basic in design and function as the owner/user requires. The SMART system will be delivered to each jobsite in a number of pre-assembled, pre-tested components, and will include a license to use our proprietary technology. Our target market is users who seek to address waste problems on a smaller scale than would be addressed by a large processing facility. Our plan contemplates that purchasers of the SMART units would receive tip fees for accepting waste and would sell fertilizer and soil amendment products in the markets where their units operate. We plan to market and sell the SMART units in both the United States and abroad. We are currently developing a licensing program that will allow third parties to use our proprietary HTLC technology for the development of fertilizers suitable for use in organic crop production and to date we have entered into a letter of intent for one such license. We are actively investigating businesses suitable for acquisition targets or joint venture partners to help facilitate the growth of our business. Since our October 2009 secondary offering, we have been investigating acquisition candidates that share our eco-friendly, green business model. The acquisition candidates that most appeal to us are those that share business objectives based upon innovative environmentally sustainable models, have a need for additional capital which we could help raise or provide, and have a strong management team. In January 2010, we created Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC for the purposes of expanding our business by adding a chicken litter based fertilizer product to our existing product line. There have been no significant operations to date. In March 2010, we entered into a license agreement with Heartland Technology Partners, LLC (HTP) under which we were granted an exclusive, irrevocable license for the use of HTPs waste water processing technology. In addition, we have hired a senior executive in the waste water processing industry and have begun to develop plans to establish this line of business. To date, we undertook the following activities in the following markets to prepare for the development of additional facilities: In 2006, The Rhode Island Industrial Facilities Corporation gave initial approval to our Revenue Bond Financing Application for up to $15 million for the construction of a Rhode Island facility. Subsequently, the Rhode Island Resource Recovery Corporation gave us final approval to lease nine acres of land in the Lakeside Commerce Industrial Park in Johnston, RI. We filed an application with the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management for the operation of a Putrescible Waste Recycling Center at that site. As a result, we formed Converted Organics of Rhode Island, LLC (Converted Organics of RI) of which we are 92.5% owners. The non-controlling interest is owned by a local business man who has assisted us with the process of developing a Rhode Island facility. In order to facilitate the development of Converted Organics of RI, on February 25, 2010 we signed a letter of intent with the non-controlling interest owner to sell substantially all of the assets and a limited select amount of liabilities of Converted Organics of RI, a transaction that would include a lease assignment of our lease with RIRRC. In Massachusetts, we performed initial development work in connection with construction of three manufacturing facilities to serve the eastern Massachusetts market. The Massachusetts Strategic Envirotechnology 6 Table of Contents Partnership Program has completed a favorable review of our technology. In March 2009 Converted Organics received a permit from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection to operate a food waste processing facility at the site. Two of our proposals to develop facilities are currently under review by property owners, the third proposal has evolved into negotiations with MassOrganics I, LLC (MassOrganics I) regarding the use of Converted Organics proprietary technology for the manufacture of organic fertilizer products. On February 25, 2010, we signed a memorandum of understanding under which MassOrganics I would install and operate the system at a new manufacturing facility to be constructed at The Sutton Commerce Park in Sutton, Massachusetts. MassOrganics I has agreed to enter into a licensing agreement, under which MassOrganics I will pay a licensing fee to Converted Organics. Conversion Process During 2009, we used two processes in our Woodbridge facility to convert food waste into our fertilizer products. The first, which is no longer used at our Woodbridge facility due to a corrosion issue in the related digester, is based on technology called Enhanced Autothermal Thermophilic Aerobic Digestion, or EATAD. In addition, we use our own HTLC technology. We acquired the proprietary rights to the HTLC technology in 2008 and began to incorporate it into the operations at our Woodbridge facility. We have used the HTLC technology at our Gonzales facility since inception. In simplified terms, both technologies work in a similar fashion in that once the prepared foodstock is heated to a certain temperature, it self-generates additional heat (autothermal), rising to very high, pathogen-destroying temperature levels (thermophilic). Bacteria added to the feedstock use oxygen (aerobic) to convert the food waste (digestion) to a rich blend of nutrients and single cell proteins. Foodstock preparation, digestion temperature, rate of oxygen addition, acidity and inoculation of the microbial regime are carefully controlled to produce products that are highly consistent from batch to batch. The products we manufacture are as follows: Solid base products with plant nutrition, disease suppression and soil enhancement (amendment) benefits. The solid base product can then be used by us to produce a variety of products with various nitrogen (N), phosphorous (P), and potassium (K) compositions. In describing the composition of fertilizer, the nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K) composition is identified. Presently, we produce both an 8-1-4 and a 4-1-8 solid granular product. These figures refer to the ratio of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K), respectively, in the products. Liquid base products with plant nutrition, disease suppression and soil enhancement (amendment) benefits. The liquid base product can then be used to produce a variety of products with various nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium compositions (NPK). We produce a variety of liquid products including: Converted Organics 521, Converted Organics GP, Converted Organics XP, Converted Organics XK, Converted Organics LC 1-1-1, Converted Organics NC, SoilStart 7-1-1, Soil Start 6-0-0 and Pacific Choice Hydrolyzed Fish 1-4-0. The efficacy of our products has been demonstrated both in university laboratories and multi-year growth trials. These field trials have been conducted on more than a dozen crops including potatoes, tomatoes, squash, blueberries, grapes, cotton and turf grass. While these studies have not been published, peer-reviewed or otherwise subject to third-party scrutiny, we believe the trials and other data show our solid and liquid products have several valuable attributes: Plant nutrition. Historically, growers have focused on the nitrogen (N), phosphorous (P) and potassium (K) content of fertilizers. As agronomists have gained a better understanding of the importance of soil culture, they have turned their attention to humic and fulvic acids, phytohormones and other micronutrients and growth regulators not present in petrochemical-based fertilizers. Disease suppression. Based on field trials using product produced by the licensed technology, we believe our products combine nutrition with disease suppression characteristics to eliminate or significantly reduce the need for fungicides and other crop protection products. The products disease suppression properties have been observed under controlled laboratory conditions and in documented field trials. We also have other field reports that have shown the liquid concentrate to be effective in reducing the severity of powdery mildew on grapes, reducing verticillium pressure on tomatoes and reducing scab in potatoes. 7 Table of Contents Soil amendment. As a result of its slow-release nature, our dry fertilizer product increases the organic content of soil, improving granularity and water retention and thus reducing NPK leaching and run-off. Pathogen-free. Due to high processing temperatures, our products are virtually pathogen-free and have extended shelf life. The HTLC technology can be used in all of our future operating plants. As the exclusive owner of the HTLC technology, we expect to achieve the same or better operating results as we would with the licensed EATAD technology at a lower operating cost. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition of the assets in Gonzales, California, we pay a fee for each ton of additional capacity added to our current facilities. The per ton fee is not payable on the Woodbridge facility, or the Gonzales facility acquired in the acquisition or the currently planned addition thereto, except to the extent that capacity (in excess of the currently planned addition) is added to those facilities in the future. We anticipate that over time this fee will be less than the royalty expense paid for use of the previously used licensed EATAD technology. In addition, we believe the product produced by the HTLC technology will be equal to or better in terms of quality than products made through the use of the EATAD technology. We have achieved Organic Materials Review Institute and/or Washington State Department of Agriculture certification for our GP, LC, 521, NC, XK, XP, PC Fish and Soil Start fertilizer products, which means that these products are approved for use in certified organic farming. In addition to the products currently listed, we have also submitted applications for review and approval of our 8-1-4, 8-1-4 Lawn and Turf, 4-1-8 and 4-1-8 Flower and Garden products. We believe obtaining certification for all of our products will have a positive impact on pricing. However, in addition to the organic market, we believe our products are positioned for the commercial market as a fertilizer supplement or as a material to be blended into traditional nutrition and disease suppression applications. Marketing and Sales Target Markets According to the U.S. Fertilizer Institute, as of June 2007, U.S. fertilizer demand equaled approximately 58 million tons per year, with agribusiness consuming the majority of product and the professional turf and retail segments consuming the remainder. The concern of farmers, gardeners and landscapers about nutrient runoffs, soil health and other long-term effects of conventional chemical fertilizers has increased demand for organic fertilizer. We have identified three target markets for our products: Agribusiness: conventional farms, organic farms, horticulture, hydroponics and aquaculture; Turf management: professional lawn care and landscaping, golf courses, sod farms, commercial, government and institutional facilities; and Retail sales: home improvement outlets, garden supply stores, nurseries, Internet sales and shopping networks. Agribusiness: We believe there are two primary business drivers influencing commercial agriculture. First, commercial farmers are focused on improving the economic yield of their land: maximizing the value derived from crop output (quantity and quality). Second, commercial farmers are focused on reducing the use of chemical products, while also meeting the demand for cost-effective, environmentally responsible alternatives. We believe this change in focus is the result of: Consumer demand for safer, higher quality food; The restriction on use of registered chemical products. Several U.S. government authorities, including the Environmental Protection Agency, the Food and Drug Administration, and the USDA regulate the use of fertilizers; Environmental concerns and the demand for sustainable technologies; Demand for more food for the growing world population; and The cost effectiveness and efficacy of non-chemical based products to growers. 8 Table of Contents Consumer demand for organic food products increased throughout the 1990s to date at approximately 20% or more per annum. In the wake of USDAs implementation of national organic standards in October 2002, the organic food industry has continued to grow. According to the Organic Trade Association, United States sales of organic food and beverages have grown from $1 billion in 1990 to approximately $24.6 billion in 2008 and are expected to grow at an average of 18% per year through 2010. Furthermore, the Organic Trade Association reports that organic foods represented approximately 2.8% of total food and beverage sales in 2006, growing 20.9% in 2006, one of the fastest growing categories. According to the Nutrition Business Journal, consumer demand is driving organic sector expansion, particularly for fruit, vegetables and dairy products. This demand, in turn, is driving commercial farmers to shift more of their acreage from conventional practices, which predominantly use synthetic fertilizers, to organic practices, which require the use of certified organic fertilizers or other natural organic materials to facilitate crop growth. The USDAs Economic Research Service reports that the number of certified organic farm acres has grown from 0.9 million in 1992 to 4.1 million in 2005, a compound annual growth rate of 12% per year. We believe farmers are facing pressures to change from conventional production practices to more environmentally friendly practices. U.S. agricultural producers are turning to certified organic farming methods as a potential way to lower production costs, decrease reliance on nonrenewable resources such as chemical fertilizers, increase market share with an organically grown label and capture premium prices, thereby boosting farm income. Turf management: We believe that the more than 16,000 golf courses in the U.S. will continue to reduce their use of chemicals and chemical-based fertilizers to limit potentially harmful effects, such as chemical fertilizer runoff. The United States Golf Association, or USGA, provides guidelines for effective environmental course management. These guidelines include using nutrient products and practices that reduce the potential for contamination of ground and surface water. Strategies include using slow-release fertilizers and selected organic products and the application of nutrients through irrigation systems. Further, the USGA advises that the selection of chemical control strategies should be utilized only when other strategies are inadequate. We believe that our all-natural, slow-release fertilizer products will be well received in this market. Retail sales: The Freedonia Groups report on Lawn & Garden Consumables indicates that the U.S. market for packaged lawn and garden consumables is $7.5 billion and is expected to grow 4.5% per year to $9.3 billion in 2012. Fertilizers are the largest product category, generating $2.85 billion, or 38%, of total lawn and garden consumables sales. Fertilizers, mulch and growing media will lead gains, especially rubber mulch, colored mulch and premium soils. Organic formulations are expected to experience more favorable growth than conventional formulations across all product segments, due to increased consumer concern with regard to how synthetic chemical fertilizers and pesticides on lawns and gardens may affect human/pet health and the environment. Further, in 2009, The National Gardening Association reported that 40% of the nations 100 million households with a yard say they are likely to use all-natural methods in the future due largely to environmental and health concerns. Product Sales and Distribution We sell and distribute our products through our sales organization, comprised of twelve employees, which targets large purchasers of fertilizer products for distribution in our target geographic and product markets. Key activities of the sales organization include introduction of our products and the development of relationships with targeted clients and us. In addition, we have signed distribution agreements with six distributors to sell our products to numerous outlets in all of our target markets. Due to our small size, we believe the most efficient method for distribution of our products is through regional distributors. This method of distribution currently accounts for the majority of our sales. To the extent we make sales directly to customers, we generally require our customers to handle delivery of the product. We have also had preliminary discussions with manufacturers representatives to explore sales of our products in appropriate retail outlets. A portion of proceeds from our October 2009 offering was used towards hiring additional sales team employees. To work together with our Vice President of Marketing and our existing sales employees, since October 2009, we have hired eight new sales employees, including a Director of Sales. We believe our sales team location throughout the United States gives us strategic placement for sales into both the organic and conventional agriculture, retail and turf markets. 9 Table of Contents Environmental Impact of Our Business Model Food waste, the raw material of our manufacturing process, comes from a variety of sources. Prior to preparation, food must be grown or raised, harvested, packaged, shipped, unpacked, sorted, selected and repackaged before it finds its way into markets, restaurants or home kitchens. Currently, this process creates a large amount of food waste, particularly in densely populated metropolitan areas such as New York City, Northern New Jersey, and Eastern Massachusetts. Traditionally, the majority of food waste is disposed of in either landfills or incinerators that do not produce a product from this recyclable resource. We use a demonstrated technology that is environmentally benign to convert waste into valuable all-natural soil amendment and fertilizer products. According to the Environmental Protection Agency food waste comprises 18% of the nations waste stream. Disposing of or recycling food waste should be simple, since organic materials grow and decompose readily in nature. However, the large volumes of food wastes generated in urban areas combined with a lack of available land for traditional recycling methods, such as composting, make disposal of food wastes increasingly expensive and difficult. Landfill capacity is a significant concern, particularly in densely populated areas. In addition, landfills may create negative environmental effects including liquid wastes migrating into groundwater, landfill gas, consumption of open space, and air pollution associated with trucking waste to more remote sites. The alternative of incineration may produce toxic air pollutants and climate-changing gases, as well as ash containing heavy metals. Incineration also fails to recover the useful materials from organic wastes that can be recycled. Traditional composting is a slow process that uses large tracts of land, may generate offensive odors, and may attract vermin. In addition, composting usually creates an inconsistent product with lower economic value than the fertilizer products we produce. Our process occurs in enclosed digesters housed within a building that uses effective emissions control equipment, which results in minimal amounts of dust and noise. By turning food waste into a fertilizer product using an environmentally benign process, we are able to reduce the total amount of solid waste that goes to landfills and incinerators, which in turn reduces the release of greenhouse gases such as methane and carbon dioxide. During the start-up phase at our Woodbridge facility, we experienced odor-related issues. As a result of these issues, we have been assessed fines from the Health Department of Middlesex County, New Jersey, and have been named a party in a lawsuit by a neighboring business. Based on a change in operational procedures and working with two outside odor-control consultants, we believe we have significantly reduced the odor issues. However, if we are unsuccessful in controlling odor-related issues, we may be subject to further fines or litigation, and our operations may be interrupted or terminated. 10 Table of Contents The following table summarizes some of the advantages of our process compared with currently available methods employed to dispose of organic food waste: Comparison of Methods for Managing Food Waste Method Environmental Impacts Products Landfilling Loss of land Landfill gas (minimal energy generation at some landfills) Groundwater threat Methane gas Air pollution from trucks Useful materials not recycled Undesirable land use Incineration Air pollution Electricity (only at some facilities) Toxic emissions Useful materials not recycled Disposal of ash still required Composting Groundwater threat Odor Vermin Slow takes weeks Substantial land required Low value compost Converted Organics No air pollution or solid waste No harmful by-products Removal of waste from waste stream Consumption of electricity and natural gas Discharge of treated wastewater into sewage system Natural fertilizer Environmental regulators and other governmental authorities in our target markets have also focused more recently on the potential benefits of recycling increased amounts of food waste. For example, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, or the NJDEP, estimates nearly 1.5 million tons, or approximately 7.4% of the states total waste stream, is food waste, but in 2003, only 221,000 tons were recycled, which represented just over 15% of the recycled waste. The 2006 NJDEP Statewide Solid Waste Management Plan focused particularly on the food waste recycling stream as one of the most effective ways to create significant increases in recycling tonnages and rates. In New York, state and local environmental agencies are taking measures to encourage the diversion of organic materials from landfills and are actively seeking processes consistent with health and safety codes. The goal is to further reduce the amount of waste going to landfills and other traditional disposal facilities, particularly waste that is hauled great distances, especially in densely populated areas in the Northeast. In 2005, the Rhode Island Resource Recovery Corporation, or the RIRRC, began an examination of the bulk food waste processing technology of our technology licensor to determine whether using our licensed technology would be economically feasible, cost-effective, practicable, and an appropriate application in Rhode Island. The RIRRC completed its review and included the technology in its 2006 Solid Waster Master Plan. In Massachusetts, the 2006 State Solid Waste Master Plan has also identified a need for increased organics-processing capacity within the state and has called for a streamlined regulatory approval path. Competition We operate in a very competitive environment in our businesss three dimensions organic waste stream feedstock, technology and end products each of which is quickly evolving. We believe we will be able to compete effectively because of the abundance of the supply of food waste in our geographic markets, the pricing of our tip fees and the quality of our products and technology. 11 Table of Contents Organic Waste Stream Feedstock. Competition for the organic waste stream feedstock includes landfills, incinerators, animal feed, land application and traditional composting operations. Organic waste streams are generally categorized as pre- and post-consumer food waste, lawn and garden waste (sometimes called green waste), and bio-solids, including sewage sludge or the by-product of wastewater treatment. Some states, including New Jersey, have begun to regulate the manner in which food waste may be composted. New Jersey has created specific requirements for treatment in tanks or in-vessel, and we believe our Woodbridge facility is the first approved in-vessel processing facility in the state. In Massachusetts, state regulators are considering a ban on the disposal of organic materials at landfills and incinerators once sufficient organic processing capacity exists within the state, which, if adopted, would provide a competitive advantage for organic processes such as our process. Technology. There are a variety of technologies used to treat organic wastes including composting, digestion, hydrolysis and thermal processing. Companies using these technologies may compete with us for organic material. Composting is a natural process of decomposition that can be enhanced by mounding the waste into windrows to retain heat, thereby accelerating decomposition. Large-scale compost facilities require significant amounts of land for operations that may not be readily available or that may be only available at significant cost in major metropolitan areas. Given the difficulties in controlling the process or the consistent ability to achieve germ-killing temperatures, the resulting compost is often inconsistent and generally would command a lower market price than our product. Digestion may be either aerobic, like the HTLC or EATAD processes, or anaerobic. Anaerobic digestion is, in simple terms, mechanized in-vessel composting. In addition to compost, most anaerobic digestion systems are designed to capture the methane generated. While methane has value as a source of energy, it is generally limited to on-site use, as it is not readily transported. Hydrolysis is an energy-intensive chemical process that produces a by-product, most commonly ethanol. Thermal technologies extract the British thermal unit, or BTU, content of the waste to generate electricity. Food waste, which is typically 75%-90% water, is generally not a preferred feedstock. Absent technological breakthroughs, neither hydrolysis nor thermal technologies are expected to be accepted for food waste processing on a large-scale in the near term. End Products. The organic fertilizer business is relatively new, highly fragmented, under-capitalized and growing rapidly. We are not aware of any dominant producers or products currently in the market. There are a number of single input, protein-based products, such as fish, bone and cottonseed meal, that can be used alone or mixed with chemical additives to create highly formulated fertilizer blends that target specific soil and crop needs. In this sense they are similar to our products, and provide additional competition in the organic fertilizer market. In the future, large producers of non-organic fertilizer may also increase their presence in the organic fertilizer market. These companies are generally better capitalized than us and have greater financial and marketing resources than us. Most of the 58 million tons of fertilizer consumed annually in North America is mined or derived from natural gas or petroleum. These petroleum-based products generally have higher nutrient content (NPK) and cost less than organic fertilizers. Traditional petrochemical fertilizers are highly soluble and readily leach from the soil. Slow release products that are coated or specially processed command a premium. However, the economic value offered by petrochemicals, especially for field crops including corn, wheat, hay and soybeans, will not be supplanted in the foreseeable future. We compete with large producers of non-organics fertilizers, many of which are significantly larger and better capitalized than us. In addition, we compete with numerous smaller producers of fertilizer. Despite a large number of new products in the end market, we believe that our products have a unique set of characteristics. We believe positioning and branding the combination of nutrition and disease suppression characteristics will differentiate our products from other organic fertilizer products to develop market demand, while maintaining or increasing pricing. In view of the barriers to entry created by the supply of food waste, regulatory controls and the cost of constructing facilities, we do not foresee a dominant manufacturer or product emerging in the near-term. 12 Table of Contents Government Regulation Our end products are regulated by federal, state, county and local governments as well as various agencies thereof, including the United States Department of Agriculture. In addition to the regulations governing the sale of our end products, our facilities are subject to extensive regulation. We have obtained permits to operate solid waste or recycling facilities as well as permits for our sewage connection, water supply, land use, air emission, and wastewater discharge. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, and township and state agencies having control over the specific properties. Any proposed changes to our plants or procedures require additional permit modifications. For our Woodbridge facility, we have obtained various permits and approvals to operate a recycling center and a manufacturing facility, including among others: a Class C recycling permit; land use and site plan approval; an air quality permit; a discharge permit; treatment works approval and a storm water runoff permit; building construction permits; a soil conservation district permit and our certificate of occupancy. Environmental regulations will also govern the operation of our facilities. Regulatory agencies may require us to remediate environmental conditions at our locations. We have contracted with a company to explore our ability to create carbon credits as a result of our manufacturing process and our diverting food waste from landfills. As of the filing of this report we have not determined the value, if any, of the potential carbon credits associated with our business. Employees As of March 31, 2010, we had 46 employees ( not including 2 sub-contract employees), 12 of whom were in sales, 13 in management and administration and 21 in operations (7 employees at our Gonzales facility and 14 employees at our Woodbridge facility). During this current time of limited production at our Woodbridge facility we have reduced the number of sub-contract employees from 18 at this time last year to 2. A portion of proceeds from our October 2009 secondary offering was to be used towards hiring additional sales team employees. Since the close of our secondary offering, we have been able to hire 8 new sales employees, including a Director of Sales. These employees bring over 130 years of combined sales experience to Converted Organics and we believe their locations across the United States give us strategic placement for sales into the organic and conventional agricultural markets. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and could negatively affect the market price of our securities. Also, you should be aware that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations through the near term, and we do not have any commitments for that capital. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred a net loss of approximately $21.1 million, and had an accumulated deficit of $49.9 million. We may need additional capital to execute our business strategy, and if we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital, we may be unable to fully execute our business strategy on a timely basis, if at all. We expect the funds received from our October 2009 offering will be sufficient to operate our current business through 2010 until we are cash flow positive, assuming that our sales levels can increase by approximately $5.5 million over 2009 levels and assuming that we do not encounter any unforeseen costs or expenses. If our sales levels do not increase or if we encounter unforeseen costs or expenses, we will require additional financing prior to such date for which we have no commitments. We do not know whether any financing, if obtained, will be adequate 13 Table of Contents to meet our capital needs and to support our growth. If adequate capital cannot be obtained on satisfactory terms, we may curtail or delay the implementation of updates to our facilities or delay the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities, any of which could cause our business to fail. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, such issuances will likely cause dilution to our stockholders, particularly if we are required to do so during periods when our common stock is trading at historically low price levels. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities, the debt securities may be secured and any interest payments would reduce the amount of cash available to operate and grow our business. We will need to obtain additional debt and equity financing to complete subsequent stages of our business plan. We will require significant financing to increase the capacity of our Woodbridge facility to its permitted 500 tons per day capacity from the current full processing capacity of 250 tons per day and to invest in the construction of new facilities. Our long-term business strategy contemplates the expansion of our Woodbridge facility and the construction of new facilities, and we do not have any commitments for the financing required to complete such projects. Any new facility will likely be individually financed and require considerable debt. While we believe state government-sponsored debt programs may be available to finance our requirements, public or private debt may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us for the development of future facilities. We do not intend to utilize the proceeds from our October 2009 offering to finance any new manufacturing facilities or to expand our Woodbridge facility to the 500 tons per day operating capacity. In addition to financing any new manufacturing facilities or to expand our Woodbridge facility, to the extent we acquire any businesses or enter into any strategic alliances, we may require additional financing to facilitate the transaction, and we do not have any commitments for that capital. To meet our future capital requirements, we may issue additional securities in the future with rights, terms and preferences designated by our Board of Directors, without a vote of stockholders, which could adversely affect stockholder rights. Additional financing will likely cause dilution to our stockholders and could involve the issuance of securities with rights senior to our currently outstanding shares. There is no assurance that such financing will be sufficient, that the financing will be available on terms acceptable to us and at such times as required, or that we will be able to obtain the additional financing required, if any, for the continued operation and growth of our business. Any inability to raise necessary capital will have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and will have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. Constructing and equipping our Woodbridge facility has taken longer and cost more than we expected, which has resulted in significant amounts being owed to construction vendors for which we did not have the cash resources to satisfy and for which we entered into deferred payment plans. Our Woodbridge facility became operational in June 2008. We incurred approximately $5.7 million in construction costs and design change overruns on an initial budget of $19.6 million. These design changes and upgrades are substantially complete, but we can offer no assurance that we will not experience additional overruns and delays before total completion. Of the $5.7 million in upgrades, design changes and construction costs discussed above, we were able to fund approximately $500,000 in costs. To finance the remaining $5.2 million in upgrades, design changes and construction costs, we entered into agreements with various construction vendors regarding payment plans, which generally provide that we pay interest only for six months with the remaining principal balance and interest thereon to be repaid in 18 monthly installments. We have successfully entered into agreements with all of our construction vendors to whom we owe money. In November 2009 we entered into our final agreement with a construction vendor that required us to pay a total of $2,029,000, with the first payment of $1,000,000 paid November 19, 2009 and the balance of $1,029,000 payable in eighteen level monthly payments of principal and interest calculated at 6% per annum. The monthly payments began January 1, 2010. This construction vendor had previously filed a construction lien on our Woodbridge facility and had commenced a lawsuit to enforce that lien. According to terms of the 14 Table of Contents agreement, the construction lien claim and related lawsuit is now suspended during the eighteen month payment period and will be released completely upon final payment. We have limited operating history, and our prospects are difficult to evaluate. We have not operated any facility other than our Gonzales facility, which we purchased in January 2008, and our Woodbridge facility, which became operational in June 2008. Our activities to date have been primarily limited to developing our business, and consequently there is limited historical financial information related to operations available upon which you may base your evaluation of our business and prospects. The revenue and income potential of our business is unproven. If we are unable to develop our business, we will not achieve our goals and could suffer economic loss or collapse, which may have a material negative effect on our financial performance. We expect to incur significant losses for some time, and we may never operate profitably. From inception through December 31, 2009, we incurred an accumulated net loss of approximately $49.9 million. The revenues that we began to generate from our Gonzales facility in February 2008 and from our Woodbridge facility have not yet resulted in our earning a profit, and we will continue to incur significant losses for at least the near future. There is no assurance that our operations will ever become profitable. If we are unable to manage our transition to an operating company effectively, our operating results will be adversely affected. Failure to manage effectively our transition to an operating company will harm our business. To date, substantially all of our activities and resources have been directed at developing our business plan, arranging financing, licensing technology, obtaining permits and approvals, securing a lease for our Woodbridge facility and options for additional facilities, hiring and training a sales force and purchasing our Gonzales facility. The transition to a converter of waste and manufacturer and vendor of fertilizer products requires effective planning and management. In addition, future expansion will be expensive and will likely strain our management and other resources. We may not be able to easily transfer our skills to operating a facility or otherwise effectively manage our transition to an operating company. If the National Organic Program changes its standards with respect to the use of corn steep liquor in organic crop production, we may no longer be allowed to sell certain of our products into the organic markets, which would materially lower our sales at our Gonzales facility. In November 2010, the National Organic Program (NOP) and National Organic Standards Board (NOSB) is expected to make a decision regarding the status of corn steep liquor as a synthetic or non-synthetic product, and whether it can remain as an accepted ingredient in organic crop production. A decision by the NOP and NOSB that corn steep liquor is a synthetic ingredient no longer allowed in organic crop production would have a significant negative effect on approximately 60% of our current sales from the Gonzales facility. Our GP and 521 products are both derived from corn steep liquor and currently account for the majority of our sales from the Gonzales facility into the organic agriculture market. If the NOP and NOSB issue a non favorable decision, it is unlikely we would see sales growth in 2010 and we may face a loss in sales for that time period. In addition, we would have to reformulate our highest selling products and then have the products certified for sale into the organic market. Organic certification can take months to achieve and it is unclear if we would be able to find an ingredient suitable to replace corn steep liquor. We are dependent on a small number of major customers for our revenues and the loss of any of these major customers would adversely affect our results of operations. Our Gonzales and Woodbridge facilities rely on a few major customers for a majority of their revenues. During 2009, approximately 70% of the revenues generated by the Gonzales facility were from a total of three customers. During 2009, approximately 48% of the revenues generated by the Woodbridge facility, excluding tip fees, were from a total of two customers. We do not have any long-term agreements with any of our customers. The loss of any of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Problems with our production equipment could negatively affect sales. In early November 2009, we noticed corrosion in the walls of one of our 120,000 gallon digesters at our Woodbridge facility and determined that the corrosion was due to our manufacturing process and the unsatisfactory performance of a protective coating that was applied at the time of installation. Through subsequent ultrasound wall thickness testing we determined that the corrosion was significant in two digesters and that we would not be able to use those digesters for their intended purpose in our manufacturing process and that they would have to be repaired or replaced. We determined the most cost effective and efficient solution to this matter is to utilize the CLF digesters, which are the digester units used at our Gonzales facility and utilize our proprietary HTLC technology. These digesters are smaller in capacity and will reduce the operating capacity of our Woodbridge facility. Throughout 2009, our production at the plant was limited by odor issues to approximately 20% of capacity and therefore the corrosion has not affected our ability to produce product to meet current demand. However, because we believe we have corrected the odor issues and we anticipate increased sales during 2010, if we cannot increase production capabilities before the sales increases happen, we may be unable to generate positive cash flow from the Woodbridge facility according to the planned schedule. To be become cash flow positive, the Woodbridge facility has to increase production levels to approximately 45-55% of full capacity. We are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404) required our management to begin to report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2008. CCR LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, will be required to opine on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ending December 31, 2010 under current legislation. We must continue an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We expect that this program will require us to incur significant expenses and to devote additional resources to Section 404 compliance on an ongoing annual basis. We continue to evaluate internal assessments in anticipation of our independent registered public accounting firm opining on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in 2010. Due to financial constraints, we have not yet retained any outside consultants to assist us, although we intend to hire such consultants in the future. As a result, we may not be able to complete the assessment process on a timely basis each year. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we cannot predict how regulators will react or how the market prices of our securities will be affected. Our future success is dependent on our existing key employees and hiring and assimilating new key employees; our inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future would materially harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the continuing efforts and abilities of our current management team. In addition, our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, including management, technical and sales personnel. We may be unable to identify and attract highly qualified employees in the future. In addition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate these employees or hire qualified personnel to replace them if they leave the Company. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract or retain key personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could materially harm our business and results of operations. We have little or no experience in the food waste conversion or fertilizer industries, which increases the risk of our inability to build our facilities and operate our business. We are currently, and are likely for some time to continue to be, dependent upon our present management team. Most of these individuals are experienced in business generally, and in governing and operating public companies. However, our present management team does not have experience in organizing the construction, equipping and 16 Table of Contents start up of a food waste conversion facility, except for our Gonzales and Woodbridge facilities. In addition, none of our directors has any prior experience in the food waste conversion or fertilizer products industries. As a result, we may not develop our business successfully. Our Woodbridge and Gonzales facility sites, as well as future facility sites, may have unknown environmental problems that could be expensive and time-consuming to correct. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter hazardous environmental conditions at the Woodbridge and Gonzales facility sites or at any additional future facility sites that may delay the construction of our food waste conversion facilities or require us to incur significant clean-up or correction costs. Upon encountering a hazardous environmental condition, our contractor may suspend work in the affected area. If we receive notice of a hazardous environmental condition, we may be required to correct the condition prior to continuing construction. The presence of a hazardous environmental condition will likely delay construction of the particular facility and may require significant expenditures to correct the environmental condition. If we encounter any hazardous environmental conditions during construction that require time or money to correct, such event could delay our ability to generate revenue. We have recently commenced operations and may not be able to successfully operate our Woodbridge or Gonzales facility. We believe our Woodbridge facility is the first commercial facility of its kind in the United States to recycle food waste into fertilizer, and it therefore may not function as anticipated. We have produced our products at our Gonzales facility since February 2008 and have had limited production from our Woodbridge facility since June 2008. As such, we have limited operating experience, and may be unable to successfully operate these facilities. In addition, the control of the manufacturing process will require operators with extensive training and experience that may be difficult to attain. Our lack of business diversification may have a material negative effect on our financial performance. We have two products to sell to customers to generate revenue: dry and liquid soil fertilizer products. Although we also receive tip fees from food waste haulers, our lack of business diversification could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may not be able to produce products from our facilities in commercial quantities or sell them at competitive prices. We have produced our products at our Gonzales facility since February 2008 and have had limited production from our Woodbridge facility since June 2008. Accordingly, our ability to produce our products in commercial quantities at a competitive cost is unproven. We may not be able to produce products from our facilities in commercial quantities or sell them at prices competitive with other similar products. We may be unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities necessary to commercialize and gain market acceptance for our products. We currently have limited resources with which to expand our sales and marketing capabilities. We have recently hired additional sales personnel and believe they have the expertise in the markets that we intend to address, however, given their recent hires, their sales capabilities and the results they will bring to the Company are currently unknown. Co-promotion or other marketing arrangements to commercialize our planned products could significantly limit the revenues we derive from our products, and the parties with whom we would enter into such agreements may fail to commercialize our products successfully. Our products address different markets and can be offered through multiple sales channels. Addressing each market effectively will require sales and marketing resources tailored to the particular market and to the sales channels that we choose to employ, and we may not be able to develop such specialized marketing resources. 17 Table of Contents Pressure by our customers to reduce prices and agree to long-term supply arrangements may adversely affect our net sales and profit margins. Our current and potential customers, especially large agricultural companies, are often under budgetary pressure and are very price sensitive. Our customers may negotiate supply arrangements with us well in advance of delivery dates, thereby requiring us to commit to product prices before we can accurately determine our final costs. If this happens, we may have to reduce our conversion costs and obtain higher volume orders to offset lower average sales prices. If we are unable to offset lower sales prices by reducing our costs, our gross profit margins will decline, which could have a material negative effect on our financial performance. The fertilizer industry is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our ability to generate and grow sales. Chemical fertilizers are manufactured by many companies, are plentiful and are relatively inexpensive. In addition, there are over 1,700 crop products registered as organic with the Organic Materials Review Institute, a number that has more than doubled since 2002. If we fail to keep up with changes affecting the markets that we intend to serve, we will become less competitive, thereby adversely affecting our financial performance. Defects in our products or failures in quality control could impair our ability to sell our products or could result in product liability claims, litigation and other significant events with substantial additional costs. Detection of any significant defects in our products or failure in our quality control procedures may result in, among other things, delay in time-to-market, loss of sales and market acceptance of our products, diversion of development resources, and injury to our reputation. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial. Additionally, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which could result in litigation. Product liability litigation, even if we prevail, would be time consuming and costly to defend, and if we do not prevail, could result in the imposition of a damages award. We presently maintain product liability insurance; however, it may not be adequate to cover any claims. Energy and fuel cost variations could adversely affect operating results and expenses. Energy costs, particularly electricity and natural gas, constitute a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The price and supply of energy and natural gas are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events outside our control, including demand for oil and gas, weather, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, and conflict in oil-producing countries. Price escalations in the cost of electricity or reductions in the supply of natural gas could increase operating expenses and negatively affect our results of operations. We may not be able to pass through all or part of the increased energy and fuel costs to our customers. We may not be able to obtain sufficient material to produce our products, and we are dependent on a small number of waste haulers to provide the food waste we use to produce our products. Our revenue comes from two sources: tip fees and product sales. We are dependent on a stable supply of food waste in order to produce our products and to utilize our available capacity. Waste haulers pay the tip fees to us for accepting food waste generated by food distributors such as grocery stores, produce docks, fish markets and food processors, and by hospitality venues such as hotels, restaurants, convention centers and airports. Insufficient food waste feedstock will adversely affect our efficiency and may cause us to increase our tip fee discount from prevailing rates, which is the discount we pay to haulers that provide larger quantities of food waste, likely resulting in reduced revenues and net income. Competing disposal outlets for food waste and increased demand for applications such as biofuels may develop and adversely affect our business. In addition, if alternate uses for food waste are developed in the future, these alternate uses could increase the competition for food waste. Successful infringement claims by third parties could result in substantial damages, lost product sales and the loss of important proprietary rights. We may have to defend ourselves against patent and other infringement claims asserted by third parties regarding the technology we have licensed, resulting in diversion of management focus and additional expenses for 18 Table of Contents the defense of claims. In addition, if a patent infringement suit was brought, we might be forced to stop or delay the development, manufacture or sales of potential products that were claimed to infringe a patent covering a third partys intellectual property unless that party granted us rights to use its intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain these rights on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses or other such rights on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products. Even if we are able to obtain certain rights to a third partys patented intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize our potential products or may have to cease some or all of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Our HTLC technology imposes obligations on us related to infringement actions that may become burdensome. If the use of our HTLC technology is alleged to infringe the intellectual property of a third party, we may become obligated to defend such infringement action. In such an event, we may become obligated to find alternative technology or to pay a royalty to a third party in order to continue to operate. If a third party is allegedly infringing any of our HTLC technology, then we may attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights. In general, our possession of rights to use the know-how related to our HTLC technology will not be sufficient to prevent others from employing similar technology that we believe is infringing. Any such enforcement action against alleged infringers may be required at our expense. The costs of such an enforcement action may be prohibitive, reduce our net income, if any, or prevent us from continuing operations. We have provided a bond guaranty to the holders of the bonds issued in connection with our Woodbridge facility, and the terms of the guaranty may hinder our ability to operate our business by imposing restrictive covenants, which may prohibit us from taking actions to manage or expand our business. The terms of the bond guaranty executed by us on behalf of Converted Organics of Woodbridge LLC prohibit us from repaying debt and other obligations that funded our working capital until certain ratios of EBITDA to debt service are met. We are required to achieve a debt service ratio coverage of 2.0 to 1.0. We did not meet the required debt service ratio coverage in 2009, and if we do not meet the ratio in 2010, our bond guaranty will remain outstanding and we will continue to be prohibited from repaying debt and other obligations that funded our working capital. Mandatory redemption of our bonds issued in connection with our Woodbridge facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash resources. The bonds issued to construct our Woodbridge facility are subject to mandatory redemption by us if the Woodbridge facility is condemned, we cease to operate the facility, the bonds become taxable, a change in control occurs or under certain other circumstances. Depending upon the circumstances, such an event could require a payment to our bondholders ranging between 100% and 110% of the principal amount of the bonds outstanding, plus interest. If we are required to redeem our bonds, such redemption will have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash resources, and may impair our ability to continue to operate. The communities where our facilities may be located may be averse to hosting waste handling and manufacturing facilities. Local residents and authorities in communities where our facilities may be located may be concerned about odor, vermin, noise, increased truck traffic, air pollution, decreased property values, and public health risks associated with operating a manufacturing facility in their area. These constituencies may oppose our permitting applications or raise other issues regarding our proposed facilities or bring legal challenges to prevent us from constructing or operating facilities. During the start-up phase at the Woodbridge facility, we experienced odor-related issues. As a result of these issues, we were assessed fines from the Health Department of Middlesex County, New Jersey and have been named as a party in a lawsuit by a neighboring business. With respect to the fines assessed by the Health Department, we 19 Table of Contents have negotiated a settlement agreement for the full amount of fines assessed. With respect to the litigation, the plaintiff has alleged various causes of action connected to the odors emanating from the facility and in addition to monetary damages, is seeking enjoinment of any and all operations which in any way cause or contribute to the alleged pollution. If we are unsuccessful in defending the above litigation or any new litigation, we may be subject to judgments or fines, or our operations may be interrupted or terminated. Our facilities will require certain permits to operate, which we may not be able to obtain at all or obtain on a timely basis. For our Woodbridge facility and Gonzales facility, we have obtained the permits and approvals required to operate the facilities. We may not be able to secure all the necessary permits for future facilities on a timely basis or at all, which may prevent us from operating such facilities according to our business plan. For our facilities, we may need certain permits to operate solid waste or recycling facilities, as well as permits for our sewage connection, water supply, land use, air emission, and wastewater discharge. The specific permit and approval requirements are set by the state and the various local jurisdictions, including but not limited to city, town, county, township and state agencies having control over the specific properties. Permits once given may be withdrawn. Inability to obtain or maintain permits to construct, operate or maintain our facilities will severely and adversely affect our business. Changes in environmental regulations or violations of such regulations could result in increased expense and could have a material negative effect on our financial performance. We are subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulations and need to maintain the environmental permits we have received to operate our Woodbridge and Gonzales facilities, and need to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate our planned facilities. If for any reason any of these permits are not maintained or granted, construction costs for our food waste conversion facilities may increase, or the facilities may not be constructed at all. Additionally, any changes in environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, could require us to invest or spend considerable resources in order to comply with future environmental regulations. We have been fined for alleged environmental violations in connection with the operation of our Woodbridge facility, and are currently contesting certain alleged environmental violations. Our failure to comply with environmental regulations could cause us to lose our required permits, which could cause the interruption or cessation of our operations. Furthermore, the expense of compliance could be significant enough to reduce our net income and have a material negative effect on our financial performance. Risks Related to Investment in Our Securities We have a significant number of warrants outstanding, and while these warrants are outstanding, it may be more difficult to raise additional equity capital. Additionally, certain of these warrants contain anti-dilution and price-protection provisions that may result in the reduction of their exercise prices in the future. 2,516,810 Class B warrants to purchase a total of 3,699,711 shares of common stock at $7.48 per share, and 2,284,409 Class B-1 warrants to purchase a total of 2,284,409 shares of common stock at $11.00 per share; 885,000 Class C warrants exercisable at $1.00 per share; 415,000 Class D warrants exercisable at $1.02 per share; 1,500,000 Class E warrants exercisable at $1.63 per share; 585,000 Class F warrants exercisable at $1.25 per share; 2,500,000 Class G warrants exercisable at $1.25 per share; and 17,550,000 Class H warrants exercisable at $1.30 per share (this includes 300,000 Class H warrants underlying underwriter purchase options issued in our October 2009 offering). The holders of those warrants are given the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the Class B, C, D and H warrants are not redeemable by us. We may find it more difficult to raise 20 Table of Contents additional equity capital while these warrants are outstanding. At any time during which these public warrants are likely to be exercised, we may be able to obtain additional equity capital on more favorable terms from other sources. Furthermore, the Class C, D and G warrants contain price-protection provisions under which, if we issue securities at a price lower than the exercise price of such warrants, the exercise price of the warrants will be reduced, with certain exceptions, to the lower price; provided that the Class G warrants have a minimum exercise price of $1.08 per share, unless we receive stockholder approval for a lower price. If we issue shares of preferred stock, your investment could be diluted or subordinated to the rights of the holders of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors is authorized by our Certificate of Incorporation to establish classes or series of preferred stock and fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such class or series without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Any shares of preferred stock so issued could have priority over our common stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, or the issuance of rights to purchase such shares, could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. For instance, the issuance of a series of preferred stock might impede a business combination by including class voting rights that would enable a holder to block such a transaction. In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock. Although our Board of Directors is required to make any determination to issue preferred stock based on its judgment as to the best interests of our stockholders, our Board could act in a manner that would discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which such stockholders might receive a premium for their stock over the then-market price of such stock. Presently, our Board of Directors does not intend to seek stockholder approval prior to the issuance of currently authorized preferred stock, unless otherwise required by law or applicable stock exchange rules. Although we have no plans to issue any shares of preferred stock or to adopt any new series, preferences or other classification of preferred stock, any such action by our Board of Directors or issuance of preferred stock by us could dilute your investment in our common stock and warrants or subordinate your holdings to such shares of preferred stock. Future issuances or sales, or the potential for future issuances or sales, of shares of our common stock, the exercise of warrants to purchase our common stock, or the conversion of convertible notes into our common stock, may cause the trading price of our securities to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. During 2009, we have issued a significant number of shares of our common stock, warrants to acquire shares of our common stock, and convertible notes that may be converted into our common stock in connection with various financings and the repayment of debt, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. The additional shares of our common stock issued and to be issued in the future upon the exercise of warrants or options or the conversion of debt could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and could have an adverse effect on our earnings per share if and when we become profitable. In addition, future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock and our Class H and Class B warrants to decline, and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. We may not be able to adequately raise the bid price of our common stock to remain compliant with NASDAQ listing standards. On December 4, 2009, we received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market stating that the closing bid price of our common stock had fallen below $1.00 for thirty consecutive business days and that therefore, we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) as of December 3, 2009. We have been provided a 180 day grace period, through June 2, 2010, to regain compliance with the Rule. To regain compliance, the bid price for our common stock must close at $1.00 or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days within the grace period. At the close of the grace period, if we have not regained compliance, we may be eligible for an additional 180 day grace period if we meet the initial listing standards, with the exception of bid price, for the NASDAQ Capital 21 Table of Contents Market. If we are not eligible for an additional grace period, we will receive notification that our securities are subject to delisting, and we may then appeal the delisting determination to a hearings panel. During January 2010, our stock price closed at $1.00 or greater for 10 consecutive trading days, however, NASDAQ did not remove the delisting notification. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We entered a 10-year lease on June 2, 2006 and subsequently in February 2007 exercised an option to renew for an additional 10 years on property located in an industrial area of Woodbridge, New Jersey, on which our Woodbridge facility is located. The lease covers 60,000 square feet of a 300,000 square foot building. The rent is $34,259 per month for the first 5 years. In year 6, the rent increases by 5% and will increase 2% per year in years 7 through 10. On January 18, 2007, we executed a lease amendment to compensate the landlord for costs incurred in connection with a buildout of the leased space. During years 2 through 10, we will pay an additional $45,402 per month under the amendment, for total rent expense of $79,661 per month. In year 11, the rent will increase by 5% and will increase an additional 2% per year in years 12 through 15. The rent will increase 5% in year 16 and thereafter, will increase 2% per year through the remainder of the term. We are responsible for payment of common area maintenance fees and taxes based upon our percentage of use relative to the whole facility and for our separately metered utilities. The additional rent associated with the buildout of the facility is approximately $4.6 million and will be repaid as discussed above. This buildout allowance represents additional financing to the Company and is not included in the estimated costs of $14.6 million to initially complete the Woodbridge facility or the additional $5.7 million in upgrades, design changes and unanticipated construction costs. In June 2008, we executed a second lease amendment to accommodate the landlords construction and operation of a Solar Photovoltaic Generating System (the Solar System), under which we agreed to restrict our roof access so to not interfere with the operation of the Solar System. On March 31, 2009, we executed a third lease amendment to compensate the landlord for certain work that the landlord completed on the leased premises. In the third lease amendment and related promissory note, we agreed to pay $790,718.64 plus 9% interest per annum payable in quarterly installments of $263,572.88 with the first payment due on September 30, 2009 and total outstanding balances due by March 31, 2010. On January 24, 2008, we entered into a 10-year lease for land in Gonzales, California, where our Gonzales facility is located. The land is leased from VLH, a California LLC whose sole member is a former officer and director of the Company. The lease provides for a monthly rent of $9,000. The lease is renewable for three 5-year terms after the expiration of the initial 10-year term. In addition, we own the Gonzales facility and the operating equipment used in the facility. In 2009, the sole member of VLH contributed cash and property to VLH in a recapitalization. VLH has henceforth been sufficiently capitalized and is no longer considered to be a variable interest entity of the Company. We have deconsolidated VLH as a variable interest entity as of April 1, 2009. On November 24, 2009 we signed a lease for office space for our headquarters in Boston, Massachusetts. The lease is for 3 years and provides 4,510 square feet of usable space for a monthly rent of $9,772. We currently lease, on a month-to-month basis, approximately 2,500 square feet of additional office space in Boston, Massachusetts. We pay rent of $2,800 per month for this space. We may terminate the office lease at any time upon 30 days advance written notice. On September 1, 2008, we signed a lease with Rhode Island Resource Recovery Corporation (RIRRC) for a parcel of land in Rhode Island. We had planned to construct a third operating facility on the land parcel, and formed Converted Organics of Rhode Island, LLC (Converted Organics of RI) to facilitate the construction and operation of the planned Rhode Island facility. We pay rent of $9,167 per month and the lease term is for 20 years. To facilitate the development of Converted Organics of RI, on February 25, 2010, we signed a letter of intent with the person who is the non-controlling interest in the entity to sell substantially all of the assets and a limited select amount of liabilities of Converted Organics of RI, a transaction that would include a lease assignment of our lease with RIRRC. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS On December 11, 2008, we received notice that a complaint had been filed in a putative class action lawsuit on behalf of 59 persons or entities that purchased units pursuant to a financing terms agreement, or FTA, dated April 11, 2006, captioned Gerald S. Leeseberg, et al. v. Converted Organics, Inc., filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. The lawsuit alleges breach of contract, conversion, unjust enrichment, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith in connection with the alleged failure to register certain securities issued in the FTA, and the redemption of our Class A warrants in November 2008. The lawsuit seeks damages related to the failure to register certain securities, including alleged late fee payments, of approximately $5.25 million, and unspecified damages related to the redemption of the Class A warrants. In February 2009, we filed a Motion for Partial Dismissal of Complaint. On October 7, 2009, the Court concluded that Leeseberg has properly stated a claim for actual damages resulting from our alleged breach of contract, but that Leeseberg has failed to state claims for conversion, unjust enrichment and breach of the implied covenant of good faith, and the Court dismissed such claims. On November 6, 2009, we filed our answer to the Complaint with the Court. On March 4, 2010, the parties participated in a Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(f) conference, and began discussing discovery issues. We plan to vigorously defend this matter and are unable to estimate any contingent losses that may or may not be incurred as a result of this litigation and its eventual disposition. Accordingly, no contingent loss has been recorded related to this matter. Related to the above matter, in December 2009, we filed a complaint in the Superior Court of Massachusetts for the County of Suffolk, captioned Converted Organics Inc. v. Holland & Knight LLP. We claim that in the event we are required to pay any monies to Mr. Leeseberg and his proposed class in the matter of Gerald S. Leeseberg, et al. v. Converted Organics, Inc., that Holland & Knight should make us whole, because its handling of the registration of the securities at issue in the Leeseberg lawsuit caused any loss that Mr. Leeseberg and other putative class members claim to have suffered. Holland & Knight has not yet responded to the complaint. It has threatened to bring counterclaims against Converted Organics for legal fees allegedly owed, which we would contest vigorously. At this early stage in the case, we are unable to predict the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome, or to estimate the amount or range of potential loss. On May 19, 2009, we received notice that a complaint had been filed in the Middlesex County Superior Court of New Jersey, captioned Lefcourt Associates, Ltd., et al. v. Converted Organics of Woodbridge, et al. The lawsuit alleges private and public nuisances, negligence, continuing trespasses and consumer common-law fraud in connection with the odors emanating from our Woodbridge facility and our alleged, intentional failure to disclose to adjacent property owners the possibility of our facility causing pollution and was later amended to allege adverse possession, acquiescence and easement. The lawsuit seeks enjoinment of any and all operations which in any way cause or contribute to the alleged pollution, compensatory and punitive damages, counsel fees and costs of suit and any and all other relief the Court deems equitable and just. In response to these allegations, we have filed opposition papers with the Court and have complied with the plaintiffs requests for information. We have also paid to the Middlesex County Health Department penalties in the amount of $157,718.75 related to odor emissions. We plan to vigorously defend this matter and are unable to estimate any contingent losses that may or may not be incurred as a result of this litigation and its eventual disposition. Accordingly, no contingent loss has been recorded related to this matter. On May 28, 2009, we received notice that a Lien Claim Foreclosure Complaint had been filed in the Middlesex County Superior Court of New Jersey, captioned Armistead Mechanical, Inc. v. Converted Organics Inc., et al. Armistead filed this Lien Claim Foreclosure Complaint in order to perfect its previously filed lien claim. The Complaint also alleges breach of contract, reasonable value, demand for payment, unjust enrichment, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and seeks compensatory, consequential and incidental damages, attorneys fees, costs, interest, and other fair and equitable relief. On July 10, 2009, we received an Amended Lien Claim Foreclosure Complaint from Armistead Mechanical. The amended complaint did not make any substantial changes to the suit. On August 4, 2009, we filed a response to the complaint whereby we denied certain claims and at this time we are unable to estimate any contingent losses. On August 28, 2009, the court entered an order staying the litigation pending the outcome of arbitration. In connection with the Complaint, Armistead has filed a demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association in order to preserve its status quo and right to submit a contract dispute claim to binding arbitration. On October 30, 2009, our response to the demand was due with the consent of Armistead. No arbitrator has yet been appointed. On November 19, 2009, we signed a Settlement 23 Table of Contents Agreement with Armistead for a total of $2,029,000, with the first payment of $1,000,000 due upon closing (closing occurred on November 19, 2009) and the balance of $1,029,000 payable in eighteen level monthly payments of principal and interest calculated at 6% per annum. The monthly payments began January 1, 2010. According to terms of the Settlement Agreement, the construction lien claim and related lawsuit will be suspended during the eighteen month payment period and will be released completely upon final payment. The Middlesex County Health Department (MCHD) issued us a number of notices of violation, or NOV, following the commencement of our operations at our Woodbridge facility, for alleged violations of New Jersey State Air Pollution Control Act, which prohibits certain off-site odors. The NOV alleged that odors emanating from our Woodbridge facility had impacted surrounding businesses and those odors were of sufficient intensity and duration to constitute air pollution under the act. As of the date of filing, the total amount of fines levied by the MCHD equaled $379,375, of which we have paid $159,468.75 (of which $157,718.75 were related to odor emissions), and currently have an unpaid balance of $219,906.25. We recorded a liability of $268,500 in our financial statements as of December 31, 2009 relating to the unpaid potion of the penalties. Based on a change in operational procedures and working with two outside odor-control consultants, we believe we have significantly rectified the odor issues. MCHD recognized that we have made substantial efforts and improvements at our Woodbridge facility in odor control and as a result, negotiated a sixteen month payment plan for the odor violations issued from May 2009 through July 22, 2009 for an amount totaling $268,500. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) Bureau of Air Compliance and Enforcement issued us an Administrative Order in June 2009 for alleged violations of the air permit issued to us pursuant to the Air Pollution Control Act. The Administrative Order alleged that we were not operating in compliance with our air permit and that we had violated the New Jersey Administrative Code for various pre-constructions without permits. No penalties were assessed in the Administrative Order. However, the Administrative Order remains an open matter because, as the NJDEP stated in the Administrative Order, the provisions of the order remain in effect during pendency of the hearing request. Additionally, while we have taken corrective actions, such actions do not preclude the State from initiating a future enforcement action or seeking penalties with respect the violations listed in the Administrative Order. The NJDEP Bureau of Solid Waste Compliance and Enforcement issued us a NOV for alleged violations of the New Jersey State Solid Waste Management Act in June 2009. The NOV alleged that our Woodbridge facility was not operating in accordance with the terms of the General Class C Permit Approval. No penalties were assessed by the NOV. However, the NOV constituted notification that the facility is allegedly out of compliance with certain provisions of the General Class C Permit and/or the NJDEP Solid Waste regulations. The NOV remains an open matter because, as NJDEP stated in the NOV, while we have taken corrective actions, such actions do not preclude the State from initiating a future enforcement action with respect the violations listed in the NOV. ITEM 4. [RESERVED] PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Our common stock has been listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol COIN since March 16, 2007. Prior to March 16, 2007, there was no public market for our common stock. The following table sets forth the range of high and low closing prices per share as reported on NASDAQ for the periods indicated. 2009 High Low First Quarter $ 4.05 $ .76 Second Quarter $ 2.19 $ .76 Third Quarter $ 1.48 $ .95 Fourth Quarter $ 1.30 $ .59 24 Table of Contents 2008 High Low First Quarter $ 14.17 $ 3.52 Second Quarter $ 10.37 $ 4.50 Third Quarter $ 7.83 $ 2.99 Fourth Quarter $ 6.46 $ 2.00 Holders As of March 26, 2010, there were approximately 7,000 beneficial holders of the Companys common stock. Dividends Beginning with the first quarter of 2007, at the end of each calendar quarter holders of record of our common stock received a 5% common stock dividend until the Woodbridge facility commenced commercial operations on June 30, 2008. We did not issue fractional shares as a part of the dividend program nor did we issue shares with respect to the calendar quarter in which we commenced commercial operations. We also issued a special 15% common stock dividend, payable on December 1, 2008 for all holders of record of our common stock on November 17, 2008. During 2008, we issued 1,232,552 shares as stock dividends. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Any future decision to pay cash dividends on common stock will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, our financial condition, results of operation, capital requirements and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities During the fourth quarter 2009, we issued 30,000 shares of common stock for consulting services. This transaction was exempt for the registration requirement of the 1933 Act pursuant to Section 4(2) under the 1933 Act, as the recipient is an accredited investor as defined in the 1933 Act. Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities See the discussion below under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Purchase of Equity Securities by the Small Business Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA As a smaller reporting company, we are not required to provide information typically disclosed under this section. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our plan of operation should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that relate to future events or our future financial performance. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include, among others, those listed under Risk Factors and those included elsewhere in this document. 25 Table of Contents Background Introduction Our operating structure is composed of our parent company, Converted Organics Inc., two wholly-owned operating subsidiaries, a wholly-owned sales subsidiary and a 92.5% owned non-operating subsidiary. The first operating subsidiary is Converted Organics of Woodbridge, LLC, which includes the operation of our Woodbridge, New Jersey facility. The second operating subsidiary is Converted Organics of California, LLC, which includes the operating activity of our Gonzales, California facility. The 92.5% owned subsidiary is Converted Organics of Rhode Island, LLC which currently has no operating activity. The wholly-owned sales subsidiary is Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC which was established in January 2010 for the purpose of employing salesmen and selling a chicken littler based fertilizer product which is produced for us by a third party supplier. We transitioned from a development stage company (first reported revenues were in February 2008) to a fully operational company that constructs and operates processing facilities that will use food waste as raw material to manufacture all-natural soil amendment products combining nutritional and disease suppression characteristics. We have current sales in the agriculture, retail and turf management markets. We were a development stage company through June 30, 2008. During the second quarter of 2008, our Gonzales facility began operating near capacity and recognized revenue from the sale of its product. Also during the second quarter of 2008, the tip floor of the Woodbridge facility commenced operations and began to accept food waste on a limited basis recognizing tip fee revenue. During the second half of 2008, operation increased at both facilities and we exited our development stage. Woodbridge Facility We obtained a long-term lease for a site in a portion of an industrial building in Woodbridge, New Jersey that the landlord has modified and that we have equipped as our first internally constructed organic waste conversion facility. We are currently producing both liquid and dry products at the facility. At full capacity, the Woodbridge facility is expected to process approximately 78,000 tons of organic food waste and produce approximately 9,900 tons of dry product and approximately 10,000 tons of liquid concentrate annually. We have two revenue streams: (1) tip fees that in our potential markets range from $40 to $80 per ton, and (2) product sales. Tip fees are paid to us to receive the food waste stream from waste haulers; the hauler pays us, instead of a landfill, to take the waste. If the haulers source, separate and pay in advance, they are charged tip fees that are up to 20% below market. During 2009 we generated revenue from this facility in the form of tip fees of approximately $127,000 and product sales of approximately $349,000. In order for this facility to be cash flow positive, we estimate that product and tip fee sales would need to be in a range of $450,000 to $550,000 per month. We estimate that the product can be sold in the range of $400 to $700 per ton based on the market to which it is sold. Therefore, based on the foregoing product price ranges, the potential monthly sales from this facility, at approximately 44-55% capacity would allow us to be cash flow positive. We had budgeted approximately $14.6 million for the design, building, and testing of our facility, including related non-recurring engineering costs. The capital outlay of $14.6 million came from the $25.4 million raised by our initial public offering of stock and the issuance of New Jersey Economic Development Bonds, both of which closed on February 16, 2007, and does not include $4.6 million of capital improvements provided by the landlord of the Woodbridge facility, which are being financed over the term of the lease by increased lease payments at an imputed interest rate of 4%. The total cost of the plant exceeded the estimate of $14.6 million by approximately $2.2 million (which did not include $4.6 million of lease financing discussed above). Also, we purchased additional equipment, which will allow us to produce additional dry product, which is in high demand by the retail market. The cost of this additional equipment was approximately $1.5 million. We decided to incorporate the HTLC technology acquired from WRI into the Woodbridge facility. These costs were approximately $2.0 million, bringing the total plant cost to $20.3 million, not including lease financing. Installation of the HTLC technology and additional equipment was dependent on our ability to raise additional capital and negotiate extended payment terms with our construction vendors. We negotiated revised payment terms with all of our construction vendors, and, as of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding notes due to our New Jersey construction vendors of approximately $3.2 million. A party that leases equipment to us has a lien on the equipment to secure payment of the approximately $41,000 to be paid over the remaining life of the lease. We added the HTLC technology to the Woodbridge facility because we believe it will significantly lower operating costs, most notably utility costs, as the need to evaporate 26 Table of Contents significant amounts of liquid byproduct would no longer be necessary, and the non-evaporated liquid can be used in the production process and sold as additional product. In early November 2009, during routine maintenance, we discovered corrosion in the walls of one of our 120,000 gallon digesters and determined that the corrosion was due to our manufacturing process and the unsatisfactory performance of a protective coating that was applied at the time of installation. Through subsequent ultrasound wall thickness testing we determined that the corrosion was significant in two digesters and that we would not be able to use those digesters for their intended purpose in our manufacturing process and that they would have to be repaired or replaced. We considered the most cost effective solutions to this matter, including the installation of stainless steel liners into the two 120,000 gallon digesters or the installation of additional CLF digesters, two of which are already installed and working at the facility. We determined the most cost effective and efficient solution is to utilize the CLF digesters, which are the digester units used at our Gonzales facility and are the ones which operate using our proprietary technology. These digesters are smaller in capacity and they have shown through the operation of our Gonzales facility, to be reliable and effective in the production of organic fertilizer products. Currently, the Woodbridge facility is operating at approximately 20% of capacity and our plan is to gauge the demand for our liquid product. As demand increases we will add production capacity by adding additional CLF digesters. We anticipate that it would take 8 CLF digesters to bring the facility to 100% capacity at a cost of approximately $1.8 million. While we had previously used the IBR digester tanks at the Woodbridge facility, we believe that the CLF digesters that utilize our proprietary technology provide for a more efficient operation at the Woodbridge facility. We believe the CLF digesters are easier to operate and maintain, and we have found that using the CLF digester tanks has minimized or eliminated the odor issues previously faced by the Woodbridge facility. Throughout 2009, our production at the plant was limited by odor issues to approximately 20% of capacity and therefore the corrosion has not affected our ability to produce product and meet current sales demand. However, because we believe that we have corrected the odor issues and we anticipate increased sales during 2010, there may be a timing related issue between increasing production capabilities and fulfilling any sales increase. If that happens we may be unable to generate positive cash flow from the Woodbridge facility as quickly as we had originally anticipated. During this period of diminished production capacity we are working to lower operating costs at the facility in order to decrease cash requirements. Our decision to bring the Woodbridge facility up to 100% capacity by utilizing our HTLC technology instead of the EATAD technology has caused us to recognize that certain equipment and systems originally installed at the facility will no longer be utilized. The net book value of the equipment, systems and related technology licenses is approximately $3.9 million; we have recognized an impairment charge related to those assets in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009. We feel that over time, assuming an increase in sales, this expense will be offset by lower operating costs related to the HTLC technology. In addition, as we have decided not to continue with the use of the EATAD technology we have written off the unamortized portion of the New Jersey operating license (approximately $553,000) and the $139,978 non-refundable deposit for a second operating plant. The expenses associated with this write off are reflected in our statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009. During the start up phase at the Woodbridge facility, we experienced emissions violations related to odor issues, which we believe may have been largely attributed to the IBR digester tanks. Since moving from the use of the IBR tanks to using the CLF digesters, we have noticed a significant decrease in odor levels, which tests reveal are at negligible levels. We were fined by the Middlesex County Health Department (MCHD) for the violations received and we subsequently hired consultants to assist with the correction process. In late July 2009, we began implementing operational procedures at the plant which were recommended by the odor control consultants and since then we have not experienced significant odor issues; however, we have not obtained release from the MCHD concerning this issue and there is no assurance that we can obtain such a release. MCHD recognized that we have made substantial efforts and improvements at our Woodbridge facility in odor control and as a result, has negotiated a sixteen (16) month payment plan for the odor violations issued from May 2009 through July 22, 2009 for an amount totaling $268,500. As of December 31, 2009, the total amount of fines levied by the MCHD totaled $379,375. We have paid $159,468.75 (of which $157,718.75 were related to odor emissions), and we have an 27 Table of Contents unpaid balance of $219,906.25. The financial statements at December 31, 2009 include an accrued liability of $268,500 related to the unpaid balance. Since October 2009 through the date of this report, we have not received further odor violations from the MCHD. In addition, we are investigating any legal remedies that we may have under warranty. Our Gonzales Facility On January 24, 2008, we acquired the net assets of United Organic Products, LLC (UOP), which was under common ownership with WRI. With this acquisition, we acquired a leading liquid fertilizer product line, as well as the Gonzales facility, which is a state-of-the-art production facility that services a strong West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. The purchase price of $2,500,000 was paid in cash of $1,500,000 and notes payable of $1,000,000. The note matures on February 1, 2011, has an interest rate of 7% per annum, is payable monthly in arrears, and is convertible into our common stock six months after the acquisition date for a price equal to the average closing price of the stock on NASDAQ for the five days preceding conversion. The Gonzales facility generated revenue during 2009 of approximately $2,109,000 with a positive operating margin of approximately $38,000 (based on no allocation of corporate overhead). As 2009 progressed, the Gonzales facility continued to improve its revenues and in the six month period ended December 31, 2009, the Gonzales facility generated revenues of approximately $1,030,000 and a positive gross margin (based on no allocation of corporate overhead) of $115,000, or 11%. We plan to continue to improve this operating margin by channeling sales into the turf and retail markets, which we believe to be more profitable, by generating tip fees from receiving additional quantities of food processing waste and by reducing the amount of raw material and freight costs currently associated with the production process. In addition, as a part of our use of proceeds from our October 2009 secondary offering, we have plans to add capacity to the Gonzales plant, whereby the plant will be able to produce approximately three times its current production and will be capable of producing both liquid and solid products. We have completed certain aspects of the planned upgrades which allow us to receive solid food waste for processing but have delayed the upgrades which would allow us to produce dry product. The remaining upgrades have been delayed due to a lack in market demand for a dry product within the area the Gonzales facility serves. Because we will have to obtain the proper building permits for continued expansion, further development of the Gonzales facility will be delayed until those permits are obtained, which we believe will be during the second half of 2010 or in early 2011. The Gonzales facility began to generate cash flow in June of 2009 and continued that trend through December 2009. We estimate that the plant in its current configuration, and based on current market prices, has the capacity to generate monthly sales in the range of $350,000 to $400,000. If sales increase above the current per month level, we expect the additional cash flow from the Gonzales facility will be used to offset operating expenses at the corporate level. On January 24, 2008, we also acquired the net assets, including the intellectual property, of WRI. This acquisition makes us the exclusive owner of the proprietary technology and process known as the High Temperature Liquid Composting, or HTLC, system, which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and solid food waste-based fertilizer and feed products. The purchase price of $500,000 was paid with a 7% short-term note that matured and was paid on May 1, 2008. In addition, the purchase price provides for a technology fee payment of $5,500 per ton of waste-processing capacity for capacity that is either added to plants that were not planned at the time of this acquisition and that use this technology. There is a 10 year cap for these $5,500 per ton of waste processing capacity charges with no minimum payment required. The per ton fee is not payable on the Woodbridge facility or the Gonzales facility acquired in the acquisition or the currently planned addition thereto, except to the extent that capacity (in excess of the currently planned addition) is added to those facilities in the future. For example, if we construct a new 100 ton per day facility that was not planned at the time of the WRI acquisition and we use the HTLC technology at the facility, the $5,500 per ton of waste processing capacity charge would be $550,000 payable as follows: $275,000 (50%) when the facility comes on line and the remaining $275,000 (50%) payable in royalty payments equal to 50% of product sales. The purchase agreement also provides for a 50% profit share with WRIs sellers on any portable facilities. The purchase agreement provides further that if we decide to exercise our right, obtained in the WRI acquisition, to enter into a joint venture with Pacific Seafoods Inc. for the development of a fish waste-processing product, we will pay 50% of our profits, which is less the 50% of the profits 28 Table of Contents paid to Pacific Seafoods Inc., earned from this product to the seller of WRI. Combined payments of both the $5,500 per ton technology fee and the profits paid from the fish waste-processing product, if any, is capped at $7.0 million with no minimum payment required. In April 2008, we entered into an agreement with Pacific Seafoods Inc. whereby we will pay Pacific Seafoods Inc. 50% of the profits from the fish waste-processing product. To date, no profits have been earned from the fish waste-processing product. It is our intention to expense the payments, if any, that are paid on either the profits from the fish waste-processing product or the $5,500 per-ton technology fee. Financing Activities January 2008, March 2009, May 2009, July 2009, September 2009 and October 2009 Financings On January 24, 2008, we entered into private financing with three investors, in which we received $4,050,000 in proceeds, referred to herein as the 2008 Financing. We used the proceeds to fund the acquisition of the assets described above, to fund further development activities and to provide working capital. The 2008 Financing was offered at an original issue discount of 10%. The investors were issued convertible debentures in the principal amount of $4,500,000, with interest accruing at 10% per annum and with the principal balance to be paid by January 24, 2009, which deadline was extended to July 24, 2009. In addition, we initially issued to the investors an aggregate of 750,000 Class A warrants and 750,000 Class B warrants exercisable at $8.25 and $11.00 per warrant share, respectively. Of these warrants, 50% were returned to us when we obtained shareholder approval for the 2008 Financing, in compliance with the rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market. A placement fee of $225,000 was paid out of the proceeds of this loan to Chardan Capital Markets, LLC. The investors had the option, at any time on or before the extended maturity date of July 24, 2009 to convert the outstanding principal of the convertible debentures into shares of our common stock at the rate per share equal to 70% of the average of the three lowest closing prices of common stock during the 20-day trading period immediately prior to a notice of conversion. As of June 30, 2009, the investors converted the entirety of the debentures into 7,366,310 shares, reducing the principal amount of the debt to $0. In addition, the investors received 131,834 shares of common stock as interest on the debentures during the pay-off period. On January 1, 2009, pursuant to the adoption of guidance described in ASC 815 related to derivatives and hedging activities, we determined that the conversion features within the convertible notes payable issued in the January 2008 financing to be an embedded derivative which was required to be bifurcated and shown as a derivative liability subject to mark-to-market adjustment each reporting period. The fair value of the conversion feature was determined using a Black-Scholes model and resulted in a fair value of $5,083,108. The effect of the derivative instruments in the year ended December 31, 2009 was recorded in our consolidated statements of operation and was a derivative gain of $3,565,091. No derivative liability related to this transaction is recorded as of December 31, 2009 as all underlying instruments have been converted into common stock. On March 6, 2009, we entered into an agreement with the holders of our $17.5 million New Jersey Economic Development Authority bonds to release $2.0 million for capital expenditures on our Woodbridge facility and to defer interest payments on the bonds through July 30, 2009. These funds had been held in a reserve for bond principal and interest payments along with a reserve for lease payments. As consideration for the release of the reserve funds, we issued the bond holders 2,284,409 Class B warrants. The Class B warrants are exercisable at $11.00 per warrant. These warrants are not registered and cannot be traded. On May 7, 2009, we entered into an agreement with an institutional investor, wherein we agreed to sell to the investor, for the sum of $1,182,500, six-month non-convertible original issue discount notes with principal amounts totaling $1,330,313 (the May Notes). The agreement provided that if we raised over $1.33 million while the May Notes were outstanding, the first $1,330,313 must be used to repay the May Notes. Additionally, in connection with the May Notes issued pursuant to the agreement, the investor received five-year warrants to purchase 750,000 shares and 350,000 shares of our common stock, with exercise prices of $1.00 per share and $1.50 per share, respectively, (Class C and D warrants, respectively) subject to certain anti-dilution provisions. Chardan Capital Markets, LLC, our placement agent for the transaction, was issued 135,000 Class C warrants and 65,000 Class D warrants. These warrants are subject to certain anti-dilution right for issuance below the exercise prices and are not registered and cannot be traded. We have determined that the warrant provisions providing for protection for issuances below the warrant exercise prices could result in modification of the exercise price based on a variable that is not an input to the fair value for a fixed-for-fixed option. Therefore we have determined that the warrants issued in connection with this financing to be a derivative instrument which is required to be shown as a derivative liability subject to 29 Table of Contents mark-to-market adjustment each reporting period. The fair value of the warrants on May 7, 2009 was determined using a Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: risk-free interest rate of 2.05%; no dividend yield; volatility of 96.7%. The resulting derivative liability was approximately $1,841,100 of which $1,558,000 was recorded as interest expense and $283,000 was recorded as general and administrative expense on the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009. The liability was revalued as of December 31, 2009 using a Black-Scholes model and the following assumptions: risk-free interest rate of 2.35%; no dividend yield; volatility of 98.6%, resulting in a revalued liability of approximately $563,517 and a derivative gain of approximately $590,561. The gain is included on the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009. Based on the price protection provisions described above and as a result of the July 15, 2009 transaction that is described below, all Class D warrants were re-priced at a $1.02. On May 19, 2009, we entered into an agreement with four institutional investors whereby the investors agreed to purchase 1,500,000 shares of our common stock for $1.40 per share, providing $2.1 million before fees and expenses. The May 7, 2009 nonconvertible short-term note described above was immediately repaid with the proceeds of the May 19, 2009 offering as required under such an instrument. In addition, and as an inducement to enter into this transaction, we issued the investors 1,500,000 warrants, with a strike price of $1.40 per share and a 90-day term. We made the offering and sale of these shares and the shares underlying the warrants pursuant to a shelf registration statement. On May 26, 2009, we entered into an amended agreement with the same four institutional investors, discussed in the prior paragraph, pursuant to which the warrants exercisable at $1.40 per share were exercised in full for aggregate proceeds of $2.1 million. Pursuant to such amended agreement, we agreed to issue to these investors in the aggregate Class E warrants to purchase an additional 1,500,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.63 per share. We may redeem these warrants at any time after our common stock has closed at or above $2.42 for five consecutive trading days. The Class E warrants expire on May 27, 2014. We made the offering and sale of these warrants and the shares underlying the warrants pursuant to a shelf registration statement. On July 15, 2009, we sold 1,961,000 shares of common stock at $1.02 per share under our shelf registration statement for an aggregate of $2,000,220. In addition, we issued 585,000 Class F warrants with an exercise price of $1.25 per share. The Class F warrants have a five-year life from the date of issuance. We paid a fee of $121,948 associated with this transaction, which was charged to additional paid-in capital. On September 8, 2009, we entered into an agreement with an institutional investor, wherein we agreed to sell to the investor, for the sum of $1,400,000, six-month convertible original issue discount notes with principal amounts totaling $1,540,000 (the September Notes). The agreement provided that if we raised over $1.54 million while the September Notes were outstanding, the first $1,540,000 must be used to repay the September Notes. The September Notes were repaid from our October 2009 public offering. Additionally, in connection with the September Notes issued pursuant to the agreement, the investor received a five-year warrant to purchase 2,500,000 shares of our common stock, with an exercise price of $1.25 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution rights for issuances below such exercise price; provided that absent shareholder approval, the exercise price may not be reduced to less than $1.08 per share. These warrants are not registered and cannot be traded. We have determined that the warrant provisions providing for issuances below the warrant exercise price could result in modification of the exercise price based on a variable that is not an input to the fair value for a fixed-for-fixed option. We have determined that the warrants issued in connection with this financing are a derivative instrument which is required to be shown as a derivative liability subject to mark-to-market adjustment each reporting period. The fair value of the derivative liability was determined at September 8, 2009 using a Black-Scholes model and the following assumptions; risk-free interest rate of 2.38%; no dividend yield; volatility of 94.3%. The resulting liability of approximately $1,987,000 was recorded as a discount on the Note to the extent of the Note balance of $1.4 million, and is being amortized over the six month note term, and the remaining approximately $587,000 was recorded as interest expense on the consolidated statements of operations in the year ending December 31, 2009. The derivative liability was revalued as of December 31, 2009 using a Black-Scholes model and the following assumptions: risk-free interest rate of 2.35%; no dividend yield; volatility of 98.6%, resulting in a revalued liability of approximately $1,063,200. The derivative gain of $923,800 is recorded on the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009. 30 Table of Contents On October 20, 2009 we closed a secondary public offering of 17,250,000 units priced at $1.06 per unit and which included the 2,250,000 units that reflect the exercise in full of the underwriters over-allotment option. Each unit consists of one share of common stock and one newly created Class H warrant, with each Class H warrant exercisable for one share of common stock at an exercise price of $1.30 per share. The warrants became exercisable on December 14, 2009, and will expire on October 14, 2014. We received approximately $16.4 million in net proceeds, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and other estimated offering expenses. We plan to use such proceeds for further development and execution of the Companys sales and marketing plan, strategic growth initiatives, other general corporate purposes, and to repay the six-month note the Company issued in September 2009 in the principal amount of $1,540,000. Sales and Marketing Throughout 2009, we have worked to further develop and execute our sales, marketing and distribution plan and have dedicated a portion of the net proceeds of the October 2009 offering to further this goal. Since the closing of our October 2009 offering, we have hired 8 sales representatives, including a Director of Sales, who together bring to Converted Organics a combined 130 years of sales experience. By hiring additional sales representatives we believe we have created a network of highly qualified experts who are strategically positioned throughout the United States to proactively leverage sales in all of our critical markets. Also, in the fourth quarter 2009 we signed an agreement with Crossbow Group, Inc., an advertising agency, to develop high impact advertising and marketing communications programs targeted to the retail lawn and garden, agriculture, professional lawn care and golf course markets. We believe this advertising program will generate qualified sales leads, expand the number of distributors of our products in the agriculture market, increase our bulk sales to professional lawn care companies and increase sales of our liquid products to golf course distributors and golf courses. Acquisitions We are actively investigating businesses suitable for acquisition targets or joint venture partners to help facilitate the growth of our business. Since our October 2009 secondary offering, we have been investigating acquisition candidates that share our eco-friendly, green business model. The acquisition candidates that most appeal to us are those that share business objectives based upon innovative environmentally sustainable models, have a need for additional capital which we could help raise or provide, and have a strong management team. In March 2010, we entered into a license agreement with Heartland Technology Partners (HTP) under which we were granted an exclusive, irrevocable license for the use of HTPs waste water processing technology. In addition, we have hired a senior executive in the waste water processing industry and have begun to develop plans to establish this line of business. Future Development We have developed smaller capacity operating units, namely the Scalable Modular AeRobic Technology (SMART) units that are suitable for processing 5 to 50 tons of waste per day, depending on owner/user preference. The semi-portable units are capable of operating indoors or outdoors and may be as sophisticated or as basic in design and function as the owner/user requires. The SMART units will be delivered to jobsites in pre-assembled, pre-tested components, and will include a license to use the HTLC technology. Our target market is users who seek to address waste problems on a smaller scale than would be addressed by a large processing facility. Our plan contemplates that purchasers of the SMART units would receive tip fees for accepting waste and would sell fertilizer and soil amendment products in the markets where their units operate. We plan to market and sell the SMART units in both the United States and abroad. We have also begun the development of a licensing program, under which we will license to third parties, the right to use our proprietary technology. The licensing program consists of a know-how license, which could be complemented with SMART unit sales so that any individual or entity buying a SMART unit would also receive a license agreement to use our technology. We are working to patent our process and technology and anticipate that we will expand upon the licensing program when the necessary patent registrations are achieved. We are currently in negotiations with MassOrganics I, LLC (MassOrganics I) regarding the use of Converted Organics proprietary 31 Table of Contents technology for the manufacture of organic fertilizer products. On January 25, 2010, we signed a memorandum of understanding under which MassOrganics I would install and operate the system at a new manufacturing facility to be constructed at The Sutton Commerce Park in Sutton, Massachusetts. MassOrganics I has agreed to enter into a licensing agreement under which MassOrganics I will pay a licensing fee to Converted Organics. Our long-term strategic plan calls for the development and construction of facilities in addition to our Gonzales and Woodbridge facilities. In connection with this plan, we have already done preliminary work aimed at establishing facilities in Rhode Island and Massachusetts. In Rhode Island, the Rhode Island Industrial Facilities Corporation gave initial approval to our Revenue Bond Financing Application for up to $15.0 million for the construction of our proposed Rhode Island facility. On September 1, 2008, we entered into a lease with Rhode Island Resource Recovery Corporation (RIRRC) for nine acres of land in the newly created Lakeside Commerce Industrial Park in Johnston, Rhode Island. We previously filed an application with the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management for the operation of a Putrescible Waste Recycling Center at that site. As part of our efforts to establish a Rhode Island facility, we have established Converted Organics of Rhode Island, LLC, of which we are 92.5% owners. The non-controlling interest is owned by a local businessman who has assisted us with the process of developing a Rhode Island facility To facilitate the development of Converted Organics of Rhode Island, LLC, on February 25, 2010 we signed a letter of intent with the same individual to sell substantially all of the assets and a limited select amount of liabilities of Converted Organics of RI, a transaction that would include the assignment of our lease with RIRRC. In Massachusetts, we have performed initial development work in connection with construction of three manufacturing facilities to serve the eastern Massachusetts market. Two of our proposals to develop facilities are currently under review by the property owners. The third proposal has evolved into the MassOrgnaics I transaction described in the paragraph above. The Massachusetts Strategic Envirotechnology Partnership Program has completed a review of our technology. Trends and Uncertainties Affecting our Operations We will be subject to a number of factors that may affect our operations and financial performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the available supply and price of organic food waste, the market for liquid and solid organic fertilizer, increasing energy costs, the unpredictable cost of compliance with environmental and other government regulation, and the time and cost of obtaining USDA, state or other product labeling designations. Demand for organic fertilizer and the resulting prices customers are willing to pay also may not be as high as our market studies suggest. In addition, supply of organic fertilizer products from the use of other technologies or other competitors may adversely affect our selling prices and consequently our overall profitability. Furthermore our plan calls for raising additional debt and/or equity financing to construct additional operating facilities. Currently there has been a slowdown in lending in both the equity and bond markets which may hinder our ability to raise the required funds. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2009, we had total current assets of approximately $12.6 million consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, inventories and prepaid assets, and had current liabilities of approximately $6.2 million, consisting primarily of term notes payable, accounts payable and accrued expenses leaving us with working capital of approximately $6.4 million. Non-current assets totaled approximately $22.6 million and consisted primarily of deposits, property and equipment and intangible assets. Non-current liabilities consist primarily of derivative liabilities, notes payable and bonds payable totaling approximately $20.1 million at December 31, 2009. We have an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2009 of approximately $50 million. Owners equity at December 31, 2009 was approximately $8.8 million. For 2009, we generated revenues from operations of approximately $2.6 million. During 2008, we generated revenues from operations of approximately $1.5 million. Our plan to become cash flow positive before depleting our available cash is as follows: We currently have manufacturing capabilities in our Woodbridge and Gonzales facilities as a means to generate revenues and cash, although at the present time, due to design and construction issues with our digesters discussed in Background Introduction Woodbridge Facility above, only the Gonzales facility has the current capacity to generate positive cash flow from operations. In addition we have begun to sell a poultry litter-based organic fertilizer product which is produced for us by a third party supplier. Sales of this product began in 2010; we generate a positive 32 Table of Contents operating margin and we anticipate positive cash flow from the sales of this product. Our estimated cash requirements for 2010 on a monthly basis are approximately $400,000 at the corporate level, $500,000 for Woodbridge and $200,000 for Gonzales. The monthly cash requirement for corporate has increased from the previously reported requirements due to increased sales and marketing efforts along with higher insurance and public company expenses. Currently our cash requirement leaves us with a cash shortfall of approximately $900,000 per month. We estimate that at the current production capacity at Woodbridge and Gonzales, we could provide enough product to achieve additional revenues of $600,000 to $750,000 per month, which would not provide sufficient cash flow to cover our cash requirements. Our plan to achieve positive cash flow is to increase production capacity at our Woodbridge facility and to increase sales levels of all product that we either manufacture ourselves or purchase from an outside supplier, including the poultry litter-based organic fertilizer product. If we are unable to increase production capacity or sales levels or if expenses exceed anticipated amounts then we will need to seek additional financing in order to cover our cash shortfall. During the first half of 2009, we reduced the entire $4.5 million convertible debenture balance from our January 24, 2008 financing by converting the balance into shares of our common stock. In addition, during the first quarter of 2009, the holders of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority bonds released $2.0 million of escrowed funds for us to use and we obtained $1.3 million of secured debt financing. We raised another $4.2 million in capital through the issuance of common stock and the exercise of warrants. In September 2009, we raised $1.4 million by the issuance of a convertible note in principal amount of $1.54 million, which included an original issue discount of 10%, and the issuance of warrants to purchase 2,500,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.25 per share. In addition, we have a shelf registration statement which would allow us to sell securities into the market to raise additional financing. On October 20, 2009, we raised approximately $16.4 million after expenses through a secondary public offering of 17,250,000 units. The units were priced at $1.06 and each is composed of one share of the Companys common stock and one newly created Class H Warrant. As discussed above, we are using the proceeds from the debt and equity offerings we completed during the year to fund strategic growth initiatives, for general corporate purposes, to repay the $1.54 million loan discussed above, to provide working capital and to further the development and execution of the Companys sales and marketing plan. We believe the funds received through our secondary public offering will be sufficient to operate our current business until we are cash flow positive assuming we achieve our desired production capacity and sales levels and assuming we do not encounter additional costs or expenses, either unforeseen or through any proposed mergers and/or acquisitions. To reach our desired production capacity we would have to add additional capacity of at least three HTLC digesters at our Woodbridge facility for a total cost of approximately $650,000. We plan to add additional capacity at the Woodbridge facility as product demand and product sales from this facility increase. If we do not achieve our desired production capacity or sales levels or if we encounter unforeseen costs or expenses (including costs or expenses required to complete future acquisitions), we may require additional financing for which we have no commitments. There is no assurance that capital in any form would be available to us, and if available, on terms and conditions that are acceptable. Moreover, we are not permitted to borrow any future funds unless we obtain the consent of the holders of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority bonds. We have obtained such consent for prior financing, but there is no guarantee that we can obtain such consent in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our plan of operation is based in part upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, including the recoverability of tangible and intangible assets, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of expenses during the periods covered. A summary of accounting policies that have been applied to the historical financial statements can be found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis. The most significant estimates relate to intangible assets, deferred financing and issuance costs, and the fair value of financial instruments. We base our estimates on historical Company and industry experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the 33 Table of Contents circumstances, the results of which, form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from those estimates. The following is a brief discussion of our critical accounting policies and methods, and the judgments and estimates used by us in their application: Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when each of the following criteria is met: Persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; Delivery of the product has occurred; The sales price is fixed or determinable; and Collectability is reasonably assured. In those cases where all four criteria are not met, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the period these criteria are satisfied. Revenue is generally recognized upon shipment of product. Share-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments exchanged for services in accordance with ASC Section 718 regarding share-based compensation. Under the provisions Section 718, share-based compensation issued to employees is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the grant). Share-based compensation issued to non-employees is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instruments issued, whichever is more readily measurable, and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period. Estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are, by their nature, uncertain and unpredictable, and depend upon, among other things, many factors outside of our control, such as the results of our operations and other economic conditions. Accordingly, our estimates and judgments may prove to be incorrect and actual results may differ, perhaps significantly, from these estimates under different estimates, assumptions or conditions. Long-Lived Assets We account for our long-lived assets (excluding goodwill) in accordance with ASC Section 360 which requires that long-lived assets and certain intangible assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, such as technological changes or significantly increased competition. If undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets, an impairment loss is to be recognized based on the fair value of the assets, calculated using a discounted cash flow model. There is inherent subjectivity and judgments involved in cash flow analyses such as estimating revenue and cost growth rates, residual or terminal values and discount rates, which can have a significant impact on the amount of any impairment. Other long-lived assets, such as identifiable intangible assets, are amortized over their estimated useful lives. These assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances provide evidence that suggests that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable, with impairment being based upon an evaluation of the identifiable undiscounted cash flows. If impaired, the resulting charge reflects the excess of the assets carrying cost over its fair value. As described above, there is inherent subjectivity involved in estimating future cash flows, which can have a significant impact on the amount of any impairment. Also, if market conditions become less favorable, future cash flows (the key variable in assessing the impairment of these assets) may decrease and as a result we may be required to recognize impairment charges in the future. Estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements are, by their nature, uncertain and unpredictable, and depend upon, among other things, many factors outside of our control, such as the results of our operations and other economic conditions. Accordingly, our estimates and judgments may prove to be incorrect and actual results may differ, perhaps significantly, from these estimates under different estimates, assumptions or conditions. 34 Table of Contents Capitalization of Interest Costs We have capitalized interest costs, net of certain interest income, in accordance with ASC Section 835 related to our New Jersey Economic Development Authority Bonds of approximately $1.1 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. Interest costs capitalized during the construction phase are included in construction in progress on the consolidated balance sheets net of amortization. Construction-in-Progress Construction-in-progress includes amounts incurred for construction costs and equipment purchases for items still under construction related to the upgrade of our Gonzales facility. Construction-in-progress for 2008 also includes amounts incurred for construction costs and equipment purchases related to the Woodbridge facility. Restricted Cash As of December 31, 2009, we had remaining approximately $613,000 of restricted cash as required by our bond agreement. A portion of this cash was raised in our initial public offering and bond financing, both of which closed in February 2007, and a portion has been funded by us pursuant to our obligations under the bond agreement. We placed in escrow approximately $30,000 to fund the bond interest payment paid on February 1, 2010. The remaining $583,000 is set aside in reserve for bond interest and principal payments along with a reserve for lease payments. We have classified this restricted cash as non-current to the extent that such funds are to be used to acquire non-current assets or are to be used to service non-current liabilities. Third party trustee approval is required for disbursement of all restricted funds. Fair Value of Financial Instruments On January 1, 2008, we adopted FASB ASC 820, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. FASB ASC 820 applies to reported balances that are required or permitted to be measured at fair value under existing accounting pronouncements; accordingly, the standard does not require any new fair value measurements of reported balances. The adoption of FASB ASC 820 did not have a material effect on the carrying values of our assets. FASB ASC 820 emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement. Therefore, a fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, FASB ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs that are classified within Levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy) and the reporting entitys own assumptions about market participant assumptions (unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy). Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access. Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs may include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, as well as inputs that are observable for the asset or liability (other than quoted prices), such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability which are typically based on an entitys own assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity. In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. Income Taxes We consider the valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets to be a significant accounting estimate. In applying the FASB ASC 740, management estimates future taxable income from operations and tax planning 35 Table of Contents strategies in determining if it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefits of our deferred tax assets. Management believes the Company does not have any uncertain tax positions. Results of Operations For the year ended December 31, 2009 we had an after tax net loss of $21.1 million compared to $16.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in the net loss of $4.9 million is made up of the following favorable and (unfavorable) major components, with further explanation and details following the chart: $1.1 million Increase in sales $(4.9) million Increase in Cost of Goods sold $(0.8) million Increase in G&A Expenses $(.3) million Increase in R&D Expenses $(0.4) million Increase in Depreciation & Amortization $(3.9) million Impairment Loss on Long term Assets $5.8 million Derivative gains $(1.1) million Increase in Interest Expense $(0.4) million All other $4.9 million Total Increase in Net Loss During the year ended December, 2009, we had sales of approximately $2.6 million compared to $1.5 million for the same period in 2008. The $1.1 million increase in composed of a $600,000 increase in sales from our Gonzales facility and a $500,000 increase in sales from our Woodbridge facility. Gonzales sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $2.1 million and Woodbridge sales were $500,000. During 2009 we had cost of goods sold of approximately $6.9 million compared to $2 million cost of goods sold for the same period in 2008. Of the $4.9 million increase in cost of good, $4.7 million is related to our Woodbridge facility and $166,000 is related to our Gonzales facility. The $4.7 million increase at Woodbridge reflects a full year of operation compared to a partial year in 2008. The major components of cost of goods in Woodbridge are labor of $1.4 million, utilities and sewer costs of $1.1 million, rent of $800,000, packaging and raw materials of $1.1 million and maintenance and supplies of $500,000. We feel that many of these costs (except rent) were higher than we expect in the future during our first full year of operations due to the start up nature of the facility and we expect these costs to be lower in the future. Similar to what occurred with the Gonzales facility, as sales from the Woodbridge facility increase, we expect that we will add variable costs for raw materials but that the current level of fixed costs will not increase proportionally. At the Gonzales facility sales increased by $600,000 however, the cost of sales increased by $300,000 which generated a 50% margin on the incremental activity. When considering together our sales and cost of sales at the Woodbridge and Gonzales facilities, we generated $38,000 of positive gross margin from Gonzales and negative $4.3 million of gross margin from Woodbridge for the year ended December 31, 2009. We incurred General and Administrative expenses of approximately $10.0 million and $9.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The approximately $700,000 increase in general and administrative expenses from 2008 to 2009 is composed of increases related to the New Jersey facility of $400,000 in odor related penalties and $200,000 in legal expenses associated with odor issues; increases of $750,000 at the corporate level related to additional personnel, benefits and occupancy expenses; increased professional fees of approximately $1,100,000 (due mainly to costs associated with our various financing activities) and increased marketing costs of $250,000. This is offset by a decrease at the corporate level of $2.0 million in non cash compensation expense related to the issuance of stock options. We incurred Research and Development costs of $637,000 and $375,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. A major part of the increase of $262,000 is related to the impairment of a deposit on a second license of $139,000 as we have determined that we will not use this license for future plant development. 36 Table of Contents During 2009 we incurred a loss on impairment of long term assets of $3.9 million due to the write down of equipment (specifically the corrosions in our IBR digester tanks) at our Woodbridge facility. For more information please see the section Our Woodbridge Facility on page 3. During 2009 we recognized derivative gains of $5.8 million due to certain our issuances of financial instruments. This item is a non cash gain and did not contribute cash to our operations. Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $6.9 and $5.8 million, respectively. The components of interest expense for the period ended December 31, 2009 are: (i) recognition of $562,000 of interest expense associated with the extension of the convertible debentures issued in January 2008, which became due in January 2009 and which were extended until July 2009 (200,000 shares of common stock were issued in connection with such extension), (ii) recognition of approximately $660,000 of interest expense associated with the issuance of warrants in connection with the March 6, 2009 financing arrangement with the holders of our bonds, and approximately $800,000 of interest expense associated with the issuances of warrants related to the short-term non-convertible notes, (iii) recognition of $1,400,000 in interest expense on our NJ EDA bonds, and approximately $279,000 on our other various borrowings, and (iv) recognition of approximately $3.2 million in amortization of discounts on our financing arrangement during the year ended December 31, 2009. Amortization of other intangible assets expense was approximately $358,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009 and approximately $399,000 during the same period in 2008. As of December 31, 2009, we had current assets of approximately $12.6 million compared to $7.2 million as of December 31, 2008. Our total assets were approximately $35.1 million as of December 31, 2009 compared to approximately $32.6 million as of December 31, 2008. The majority of the increase in current assets from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 is due to the increase in cash as a result of our secondary stock offering. As of December 31, 2009, we had current liabilities of approximately $7.9 million compared to $9.5 million at December 31, 2008. This decrease is due largely to the negotiation of term notes with our construction vendors which moved some of that liability from current to non-current. In addition, we had long-term liabilities of approximately $18.5 million as of December 31, 2009 as compared to $18.1 million at December 31, 2008. The increase is due to the reclassification of amounts owed to construction vendors to long-term liabilities. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 we had negative cash flow from operating activity of approximately $11 million, comprising loss from operations of $21 million adjusted for certain non-cash items such as derivative gains, depreciation, non-cash interest expense associated with the issuance of warrants, the write-down of impaired assets, amortization of deferred financing fees and amortization of discounts on private financing, and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses. We also had negative cash flow from investing activities of $2.5 million, primarily related to construction at the New Jersey facility, offset by the release of restricted cash set aside for that purpose. The negative cash flow from both operating and investing activities was offset by approximately $20.7 million in positive cash flow from financing activities comprising proceeds from our various debt and equity transactions. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 we had negative cash flow from operating activity of approximately.$7.3 million, comprising loss from operations of $16 million, adjusted for certain non-cash items such as recognition of expense associated with the beneficial conversion features of our debt, amortization of discounts attributable to warrant transactions, and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses. We had negative cash flow from investing activities of $4.7 million, primarily related to construction of the New Jersey facility, offset by the release of restricted cash set aside for that purpose. The negative cash flow from both operating and investing activities was offset by the approximately $15 million in positive cash flow from our debt and equity financing transactions.