Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Purchase of Equity Securities by the Small Business Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Not applicable. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our plan of operation should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that relate to future events or our future financial performance. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include, among others, those listed under Risk Factors and those included elsewhere in this document. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Converted Organics Inc. is sometimes referred to herein as we, us, our and the Company. Introduction We presently have three business segments, which are (1) organic fertilizer, (2) industrial wastewater treatment and (3) vertical farming. We evaluate performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment operating income. The discreet financial information presented below is derived from the continuing operations as of December 31, 2011. The results of continuing operations are as follows: Organic Fertilizer Vertical Farming Industrial Wastewater Corporate and Eliminations Consolidated Revenues $ 2,754,206 $ $ 397,937 $ $ 3,152,143 Operating loss from continuing operations(1) (639,990 ) (6,866,856 ) (136,205 ) (5,765,045 ) (13,408,096 ) Depreciation and amortization(2) 424,636 450,472 105,555 507,025 1,487,688 Interest expense(3) 15,721 7,632 8,175,566 8,198,919 Net loss (639,990 ) (6,682,350 ) (1,095,505 ) (9,563,014 ) (17,980,859 ) Total assets net of discontinued operations(4) 3,107,994 3,140,581 500,000 132,415 6,880,990 Property and equipment additions 142,373 1,057,223 1,199,596 (1) Operating income (loss) of the principal businesses exclude corporate compensation, marketing expense, professional fees and other unallocated expenses. 19 Table of Contents (2) Depreciation and amortization expense associated with property and equipment, intangibles and deferred financing fees. Corporate amortization expense relates to deferred financing fees. (3) Corporate interest expense is primarily related to amortization of discounts on convertible notes payable. (4) Total business assets are the owned or allocated assets used by each business. Corporate assets consist of cash, prepaid expenses, certain other assets and deferred financing costs. Revenues are attributable to geographic areas based on the locations of the customers, which are primarily within the continental United States. The fertilizer segment derived approximately $1.7 million or 62% of its revenues from five customers and the industrial wastewater segment derived 100% of its revenue from one customer for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our operating structure is composed of our parent company, Converted Organics Inc. (COIN) and the subsidiaries listed below. Expenditures at the corporate level (items paid for by COIN) include management and public company expenses, along with the expenses associated with its Industrial Wastewater Treatment business, and the outsourcing of dry product fertilizer production. It was the intention of management to transfer the operations of IWR and the dry fertilizer product to a subsidiary level when business volumes became appropriate. The current subsidiaries of COIN are as follows: Converted Organics of California, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of COIN, which includes the operation of our Gonzales, CA facility. Converted Organics of Woodbridge, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of COIN, which includes the discontinued operation of our Woodbridge, NJ facility. Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of COIN, established for the purpose of adding a poultry litter-based fertilizer product to the Companys existing product lines. Converted Organics of Rhode Island, LLC (RILLC), an inactive subsidiary of Converted Organics Inc., of which we own 92.5%. RILLC has no assets or liabilities. RILLC was originally established for the purpose of operating a food waste to fertilizer plant in Rhode Island. The only asset that RILLC had acquired was an operating lease from the Rhode Island Resource Recovery Corporation (RIRRC) for a parcel of land which was intended to serve as the site for the planned plant. The Company did not have the resources to begin construction on a plant and therefore entered into a letter of intent to sell the operating lease rights to a third party who would also obtain a license from Converted Organics Inc. to operate the proposed facility. The letter of intent does not remain in effect, as the operating lease reverted back to the RIRRC in the fourth quarter of 2010. The RIRRC is a separate and distinct corporation, operated by the state of Rhode Island for the purpose of operating recycling facilities and the Company has no related party or affiliated relationship with that entity. TerraSphere Inc., a Delaware C corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of COIN, was established to hold COINs investment in TerraSphere Systems, LLC (Systems LLC) in which COIN acquired a 95% interest on November 12, 2010. Systems LLC owns 85% of TerraSphere Systems Canada Inc. and 100% of PharmaSphere, LLC, which in turn owns 100% of PharmaSphere Worcester, LLC. COINs acquisition of its interest in Systems LLC was approved by our shareholders at a special meeting held on September 16, 2010. GoLocalProduceRI, LLC, an 83.34% owned subsidiary of COIN, was acquired on December 30, 2010 for the purpose of building and operating a TerraSphere facility. Organic Fertilizer Business We operate a processing facility (Gonzales, CA) that uses food and agricultural waste as raw materials to manufacture all-natural fertilizer and soil amendment products combining nutritional and disease suppression characteristics for sales to our agribusiness market. During 2011, we did not record any sales from our production facility in Woodbridge NJ, as operations at that facility were discontinued and we will not have sales from that facility in the future. However, in early 2011 we contracted with a third party manufacturer and packager to 20 Table of Contents produce our 8-1-4 dry product to sell to our established retail and turf management customers that were previously serviced by our Woodbridge, NJ facility. We generated approximately $285,000 in revenue from this outsourced product in 2011 but we do not plan to generate revenue in 2012 from the outsourced product. During 2010 we also had some sales from a poultry-litter-based fertilizer product, but do not have revenue from this product in 2011 nor do we expect any future revenue from this product. Our plan to produce future revenue from the fertilizer business is based upon our continued operation of our Gonzales, CA facility and possibly the licensing the use of our technology to others. Converted Organics of California, LLC Gonzales, CA Facility The Gonzales, CA facility is our production facility that services the West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. This facility uses our proprietary technology and process known as High Temperature Liquid Composting, or HTLC , which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and food waste-based fertilizer and a limited amount of solids that could be further processed into a useable form for use in agriculture, retail, and professional turf markets. The Gonzales, CA facility began to generate positive cash flow in June 2009 and has continued to do so through 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Gonzales, CA facility generated revenues of $2,472,000 and a gross margin of $684,000, or 27% (based on no allocation of corporate overhead). We plan to continue to improve this operating margin by maximizing the production capacity at the facility, as discussed below, by generating tip fees from receiving additional quantities of food processing waste and by reducing the amount of raw material and freight costs currently associated with the production process. We estimate that the plant, in its current configuration and based on current market prices, has the capacity to generate monthly sales in the range of $350,000 to $400,000. In addition, we have plans to triple production capacity of the Gonzales, CA plant and further modify it to enable production of both liquid and solid fertilizers. We have completed certain aspects of the planned upgrades which allow us to receive solid food waste for processing, but have delayed the upgrades which would allow us to produce dry product due to a lack of market demand for a dry product within the area the Gonzales, CA facility serves. As we will have to obtain the proper building permits for continued expansion, further development of the Gonzales, CA facility will be delayed until additional market research has been completed and permits as well as financing can be obtained. If sales increase above the current per month level, we expect the additional cash flow from the Gonzales, CA facility will be used to offset operating expenses at the corporate level and would not be used to expand that facility. In 2008 we entered into certain arrangements whereby we became the exclusive owner of the HTLC system, which enables the processing of various biodegradable waste products into liquid and solid food waste-based fertilizer and feed products. In addition, the acquisition of this technology provides for a technology fee payment of $5,500 per ton of waste-processing capacity for capacity that is either added to plants that were not planned at the time of this acquisition and that use this technology. There is a 10-year cap for these processing capacity charges, and no minimum payment is required. This fee did not apply to the Woodbridge, NJ facility and does not apply to the Gonzales, CA facility, including the currently planned addition thereto, but expansion in excess of the current plan will trigger payable fees for that excess. The agreement also provides for a 50% profit share with the seller on any portable facilities. During 2010 and part of 2011, we were also party to an agreement with Pacific Seafoods Inc. (Pacific Seafoods) whereby we agreed to pay Pacific Seafoods 50% of the profits from the development of a fish-waste product. Under this agreement, the seller of the HTLC technology would also be entitled to 50% of our profits from this joint venture. Our profits from this arrangement are thus 25% of the total profits from the enterprise (50% of total profits net half of the remainder). To date, no profits have been earned from the fish-waste product and the agreement has expired. We continue to have access to the fish waste from this supplier on an as purchased basis and, if the need for the product continues, we plan to produce it. Combined payments of both the $5,500 per ton technology fee and the profits paid from the fish waste-processing product, if any, are capped at $7.0 million, with no minimum payment required. It is our intention to expense the payments, if any, that are paid on either the profits from the fish waste-processing product or the $5,500 per-ton technology fee. We do not expect to have any related payments in 2012. 21 Table of Contents Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC On January 26, 2010, we formed Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC, a Mississippi limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. We established this entity for the purpose of adding a poultry litter-based fertilizer to our existing product lines, and we outsourced the production of this product. From the date of inception through December 31, 2010, Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC recorded product sales revenue of approximately $255,000. In the later part of 2010, the Company from whom we outsourced the product filed for protection under Chapter 7 and we did not have any sales from this product in 2011 and we do not expect to have future sales of this product. Converted Organics of Woodbridge, LLC During the third quarter of 2010 we discontinued the operations of our Woodbridge, NJ facility which is discussed further in this section under the caption Results of Discontinued Operations . Industrial Wastewater Treatment Business In March 2010, we began to operate an Industrial Wastewater Resources division of the Company (IWR) to leverage our exclusive license of the LM-HT Concentrator technology for the treatment of industrial wastewater (IW). Due to its unique, energy efficient design, the LM-HT Concentrator provides a highly cost-effective alternative to traditional IW treatment technology. On March 23, 2010, we entered into a loan and license agreement with Heartland Technology Partners, LLC (HTP). The non-interest bearing loan agreement required us to advance $500,000 to HTP in three monthly installments that commenced upon signing of the loan. The outstanding principal balance of the loan is due only if either a change of control of HTP or the completion by HTP of a financing in excess of $10 million occurs on or before June 30, 2012. In consideration for entering into the loan agreement, we were granted an exclusive, irrevocable license to utilize HTPs patented LM-HT Concentrator technology in the U.S. industrial wastewater market. The IW market involves the treatment of waters that have been contaminated by anthropogenic industrial or commercial activities, prior to their reuse or release into the environment. The LM-HT Concentrator reduces carbon emissions compared to traditional technologies by using waste heat and renewable energy as thermal fuel. On July 30, 2010, we signed a letter of intent with Spirit Services, Inc. to jointly develop an energy and IW treatment facility using our exclusively licensed technology to evaporate IW at a facility in South Boston, Virginia. We have subsequently signed additional agreements to establish relationships to jointly develop IW treatment facilities at certain established waste treatment facilities in the United States. This letter of intent and further agreements have not resulted in formal contracts and due to expense reduction efforts we have terminated the general manager position of the IWR segment. We do not believe that any of these agreements will generate revenue in 2012. We are currently investigating alternatives to producing revenues from this license. During 2011, IWR operated an industrial wastewater concentrator on Glenwood Springs Landfill Enterprises South Canyon Landfill in Glenwood Springs, CO as a result of an agreement signed in January of 2011 with Waste Systems, Inc. This facility was designed to treat 15,000 gallons of aqueous waste per day and was be fueled by the combustion of biomass diverted from disposal in the landfill. Among the IWs treated by the plant were septic, wash waters, process waters, man-camp wastewaters, and wastewaters from oil and gas exploration activities. Under this agreement we were paid a per gallon fee for the amount of IW that was treated, less labor costs to operate the unit and a marketing fee to generate IW delivered to the facility. In addition, we were responsible for repairs and maintenance of the evaporator unit. We were responsible for the purchase of the evaporator unit and will own it. The unit was manufactured by HTP. As of January 2011 we began to generate revenue under this agreement from South Canyon Landfills traditional method of wastewater treatment as we waited for conditional air permits. Such permits were received in March of 2011, at which time we paid $600,000 of the $1.6 million purchase price of the evaporator and the unit commenced operations. The agreement that we had with South Canyon landfill called for us to own the equipment and they will operate it. We would receive the gross revenue from the wastewater that is treated less a charge for direct labor to operate the equipment, repairs and maintenance on the equipment and a marketing fee to allow us to attract additional wastewater customers to use the South Canyon landfill for wastewater disposal. In the later part of 2011, we were unable to continue to 22 Table of Contents make the required payments towards the equipment and in early January 2012 we received notice from Waste Systems, Inc. that the agreement had been terminated and the equipment and any deposits made on the equipment remained with Waste Systems and therefore we will not generate further revenue from this operation. Vertical Farming Business On May 20, 2010, we formed TerraSphere Inc., a Delaware C corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, for the purpose of acquiring the membership interests of TerraSphere Systems, LLC (TerraSphere Systems). On July 6, 2010, a membership interest purchase agreement was entered into by the Company, TerraSphere Inc., TerraSphere Systems, and the members of TerraSphere Systems, pursuant to which we agreed to acquire the membership interests of TerraSphere Systems. The maximum total shares that could be issued for TerraSphere Systems was estimated to be 6,833 shares of our common stock, which included earn-out share payments of up to 2,921 shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the purchase agreement, the acquisition was approved by our shareholders on September 16, 2010, and the Company acquired 95% of the membership interest of TerraSphere Systems on November 12, 2010. We issued 6,556 shares of our common stock to the members of TerraSphere Systems in exchange for 95% of the units of TerraSphere Systems, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. Of these shares, 3,635 shares were issued on November 12, 2010, the closing of the acquisition, and the remainder of the shares were to be issued if TerraSphere achieved four milestones. As of the filing date of this report, three of the four milestones, TerraSpheres collection of $2.0 million of its accounts receivable by February 28, 2011 and market capitalization and gross margin as of December 31, 2011 were subject to measurement. Those three milestones were not met, and as a result we will not issue the 2,190 shares of our common stock associated with those milestones. The final milestone (additional gross margin) is to be measured at December 31, 2012 and at this time we do not expect that this final milestone will be met. TerraSphere Systems is in the business of designing, building, and operating highly efficient and scalable systems, featuring a patented, proprietary technology that utilizes vertically-stacked modules to house rows of plants, which are then placed perpendicular to an interior light source to grow pesticide and chemical-free organic fruits and vegetables. Due to a controlled, indoor environment, the system generates fresh produce year-round in any location or climate world-wide. During all of 2011 we funded the TerraSphere operation and sought additional financing to build out the TerraSphere business. By the end of 2011, we had not been successful in those efforts and we are unable to continue to fund the operations. 2010 and 2011 Financing Activities On April 20, 2010, we entered into an agreement with a single institutional investor, pursuant to which we issued to the investor: (i) 480 shares of common stock and (ii) five-year warrants to purchase 233 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $5,300 per share (Class I warrants). The warrants may be exercised at any time on or following a date one year after the date of issuance and expire five years from the date of issuance. The transaction closed on April 22, 2010 and provided us with net proceeds of approximately $2.4 million. On October 18, 2010, we entered into an Exchange Agreement with Oppenheimer Rochester National Municipals and Oppenheimer New Jersey Municipal Fund, each a series of Oppenheimer Multi-State Municipal Trust, a Massachusetts business trust (together, the Bond Holder). The Bond Holder was the sole holder of $17,500,000 aggregate principal amount Solid Waste Facilities Revenue Bonds (the Bonds) that were issued on behalf of Converted Organics of Woodbridge, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, the Bond Holder agreed to exchange: (i) the Bonds (which represented 100% of all Bonds), and (ii) Class B Warrants to purchase 457 shares the Companys Common Stock for 17,500 shares of the Companys newly authorized 1% Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. In addition, the Bond Holder agreed to waive all interest accrued and unpaid from February 1, 2010 until the date of the Exchange Agreement on the Bonds, and agreed to transfer to the Company approximately $600,000 that the Company had previously deposited into certain reserve accounts in connection with the Bonds. To designate and establish the shares of Series A Preferred, the Companys Board of Directors approved, and on October 18, 2010, the Company filed with the Delaware Secretary of State, a Certificate of Designation of Preferences, Rights and Limitations of Series A Preferred Stock (the Certificate of Designation). Each share of Series A Preferred is convertible into a number of shares of Common Stock equal to (i) the stated value of the share ($1,000), divided by (ii) $2,715 (the Conversion Price). Holders of the Series A Preferred are entitled to receive cumulative dividends at the rate per 23 Table of Contents share (as a percentage of the stated value per share) of 1% per annum (subject to increase in certain circumstances), payable annually and on each conversion date. The dividends are payable during the first three years after issuance at the election of the Company, and thereafter at the election of the holder, in cash or in shares of Company common stock valued at the Conversion Price (or in some combination thereof). On December 17, 2010, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with certain institutional investors (the Buyers) whereby we agreed to sell to Buyers convertible notes in the aggregate original principal amount of $4,990,000 (the Notes), which are convertible into shares of our common stock. The Notes were issued with an original issue discount of approximately 4.8%, and the purchase price of the Notes was $4,750,000. The Notes are not interest bearing, unless we are in default on the Notes, in which case the Notes carry an interest rate of 18% per annum. On December 17, 2010 we sold to the Buyer $3,940,000 of the Notes and on March 3, 2011 we sold the Buyer the remaining $1,050,000 of the notes. We are required to repay the Notes in six equal installments commencing February 1, 2011, with respect to the approximately $3.9 million of the Notes, and April 8, 2011, with respect to the approximately $1.1 million of the Notes, either in cash or in shares of our common stock. If we choose to utilize shares of our common stock for the payment, the value of our shares will be equal to the lower of (i) the conversion price then in effect and (ii) 85% of the average of the three lowest closing sale prices of our common stock during the 20 trading day period prior to payment of the installment amount. We also have the right, at our option, to permit the holder of the Notes to convert at a lower price specified by us for a period specified by us. In addition, we also issued to the Buyers warrants to acquire shares of common stock, in the form of three warrants: (i) Series A Warrants, (ii) Series B Warrants, and (iii) Series C Warrants (collectively, the Warrants). The Series B Warrants became exercisable on February 28, 2011, the date upon which shareholder approval was obtained in connection with the financing, and expired on November 28, 2011. The Series B Warrants provided that the holders were initially entitled to purchase an aggregate of 998 shares at an initial exercise price of $500 per share. For certain dilutive issuances (with limited exceptions), the exercise price of the Series B Warrants could be lowered to the per share price for the dilutive issuances. In addition, the exercise price of the Series B Warrants could adjust to the average of the conversion prices used to repay the Notes discussed above. The floor price for the exercise price of the Series B Warrants was $1,725. The number of shares underlying the Series B Warrants adjusted whenever the exercise price adjusted, such that at all times the aggregate exercise price of the Series B Warrants was $4,990,000. As of the date hereof, the Series B warrants have expired. The Series A and Series C Warrants became exercisable on February 28, 2011, the date upon which shareholder approval was obtained in connection with the financing, and have a five year term. Should we make certain dilutive issuances (with limited exceptions), the exercise price of the Series A and Series C Warrants will be lowered to the per share price for the dilutive issuances. In addition, the exercise price of the Series A and Series C Warrants will adjust to the average of the conversion prices used to repay the Notes discussed above. As of the date hereof, the exercise price of the Series A Warrants and Series C Warrants is $250 per share. On April 1, 2011, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with an institutional investor whereby we sold to the investor a convertible note in the aggregate original principal amount of $3,850,000 (the Original Note), which is convertible into shares of our common stock. The Original Note was issued with an original issue discount of approximately 9.1%, and the proceeds from the Original Note were $3,500,000. The Original Note was non interest bearing. On November 2, 2011, we entered into an agreement pursuant to which we agreed with the holder of the Original Note to exchange Original Note, which had $3,474,797 of principal outstanding on November 2, 2011, for a senior secured convertible in the aggregate original principal amount of $3,474,797 (the Note). Pursuant to the original terms of the Original Note, we were required to repay the Original Note in five equal monthly installments, commencing July 31, 2011, either in cash or in shares of our common stock. We were not permitted to utilize shares of common stock for repayment prior to meeting certain conditions, including the registration statement registering the resale of the shares of common stock underlying the Original Note being declared effective by the SEC. As of the date hereof, such registration statement has not been declared 24 Table of Contents effective, and as such, we would have been required to make the monthly Original Note repayment in cash. On August 9, 2011 we and the Original Note holder agreed to delay the repayment dates and on March 22, 2012 to 80% of the lowest bid price of our common stock on the date of conversion. The terms of the Note we issued in November 2, 2011 are substantially identical to the terms of the Original Note, except that we are not required to amortize payment for the Note and the principal and interest on the Note is now due on May 2, 2012, instead of February 17, 2012. If an event of default occurs under the Note, we must redeem the Note in cash at the greater of 135% of the unconverted principal amount or 135% of the greatest equity value of the shares of common stock underlying the Note from the date of the default until the redemption is completed. The conversion price of the Note is subject to adjustment in the case of stock splits, stock dividends, combinations of shares and similar recapitalization transactions. The convertibility of the Note may be limited if, upon exercise, the holder or any of its affiliates would beneficially own more than 4.9% of our common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we also agreed to issue to the Note holder warrants to acquire shares of common stock, in the form of three warrants: (i) Series A Warrants, (ii) Series B Warrants and (iii) Series C Warrants (collectively, the April Warrants). The Series B Warrants are exercisable six months and one day after issuance and expire nine months after the date we obtain shareholder approval to issue in excess of 20% of our common stock for the April 2011 financing and to permit us to adjust the exercise price of the Series A and Series C Warrants. The Series B Warrants provide that the holders are initially entitled to purchase an aggregate of 1,829 shares at an initial exercise price of $2,062.50 per share. On August 9, 2011, as part of the restructuring of the Note described above, we agreed to lower the exercise price of the Series B Warrants to $250 per share. If we make certain dilutive issuances (with limited exceptions), the exercise price of the Series B Warrants will be lowered to the per share price for the dilutive issuances. In addition, the exercise price of the Series B Warrants was adjusted to the average of the conversion prices we used to repay the Original Note. Based upon our current stock price the holder of the Note is now entitled to 2,219 shares of our common stock through the exercise of their warrants. To the extent we enter into a fundamental transaction (as defined in the Series B Warrants and which include, without limitation, our entering into a merger or consolidation with another entity, our selling all or substantially all of our assets, or a person acquiring 50% of our common stock), we have agreed to purchase the Series B Warrants from the holders at their Black-Scholes value. If our common stock trades at a price at least 200% above the Series B Warrants exercise price for a period of 10 trading days at any time after we obtain shareholder approval (as discussed above), we may force the exercise of the Series B Warrants if we meet certain conditions. The Series A and Series C Warrants are exercisable six months and one day after issuance and have a five year term commencing on the initial exercise date. The Series A Warrants provide that the holders are initially entitled to purchase an aggregate of 963 shares. The Series C Warrants provide that the holders are initially entitled to purchase an aggregate of 869 shares. If on the expiration date of the Series B Warrants, a holder of such warrant has not exercised such warrant for at least 50% of the shares underlying such warrant, we have the right to redeem from such holder its Series C Warrant for $10,000 under certain circumstances. On August 9, 2011, as part of the restructuring of the Original Note described above, we agreed to lower the exercise price of the Series A and Series C Warrants to $250 per share. If we make certain dilutive issuances (with limited exceptions), the exercise price of the Series A and Series C Warrants will be lowered to the per share price for the dilutive issuances. In addition, the exercise price of the Series A and Series C Warrants was adjusted to the average of the conversion prices we used to repay the Original Note. The number of shares underlying the Series A and Series C Warrants will not be adjusted due to an adjustment of the exercise price pursuant to the preceding two sentences. To the extent we enter into a fundamental transaction (as defined in the Series A and Series C Warrants and which include, without limitation, our entering into a merger or consolidation with another entity, our selling all or substantially all of our assets, or a person acquiring 50% of our common stock), we have agreed to purchase the Series A and Series C Warrants from the holder at their Black-Scholes value. 25 Table of Contents The exercise price of all the Warrants is subject to adjustment in the case of stock splits, stock dividends, combinations of shares and similar recapitalization transactions. The exercisability of the Warrants may be limited if, upon exercise, the holder or any of its affiliates would beneficially own more than 4.9% of our common stock. The Note may not be converted if the total number of shares that would be issued would exceed 19.99% of our common stock on the date the Purchase Agreement was executed prior to our receiving shareholder approval (as discussed above). Acquisitions TerraSphere Systems, LLC Acquisition On November 12, 2010, we acquired 95% of the membership interests of TerraSphere Systems LLC. The acquisition enabled us to license TerraSpheres patented Growth System, which is a system of modules and processes for growing plants in a controlled environment. The system uses and controls precise combinations of light, water, nutrition, gravity, centrifugal forces, and gasses to produce growing conditions that can be controlled and manipulated to result in desired plant growth and maximum crop production. The membership interest purchase agreement (Agreement) entered on July 6, 2010 allows for an election by TerraSphere members to accept 1) 5,556 shares of common stock upon closing of the transaction (with a 6 month holding period) (Option One) or 2) 3,175 shares of Company common stock upon closing of the transaction with an option to earn an additional 4,233 shares of Company common stock in contingent consideration based upon both the Company and TerraSphere achieving certain milestones and agreeing to an 18 month holding period on stock distributed to them (Option Two). Based on 26% of TerraSphere members electing Option One and 69% electing Option Two, the maximum total shares that could be issued was 6,555 of Company common stock. Per the Agreement, TerraSphere members who elected Option One received 1,444 shares of Company common stock upon closing and members electing Option Two received 2,190 shares of Company common stock upon closing with an additional 2,921 shares of Company common stock issuable upon achieving the following milestones (contingent consideration): Milestone One Payment : 913 shares of Company common stock, if between the date of the Agreement and the 90th day following the closing date or the 180th day following the date of the Agreement, the following occurred: for a period of five consecutive trading days, the Companys market capitalization exceeds the sum of: (1) the Companys initial market capitalization on the date of execution of the Agreement, plus (2) the closing price per share, multiplied by the number of shares of Company common stock to be issued at closing pursuant to the Agreement. If between the date of the Agreement and the 90th day following the closing date or the 180th day following the date of the Agreement, the Company completes an equity financing, the cash received from the equity financing during such period shall be added to the market capitalization. If between the closing date and December 31, 2011, the Company sells equity of either the Company or any of the Companys subsidiaries, any cash received from such equity sales during such period shall be added to the market capitalization; Milestone One, therefore, depends upon changes in market capitalization of Converted Organics and not directly to achievements by TerraSphere. This milestone was not met; Milestone Two Payment: 365 shares of Company common stock, if $2,000,000 of TerraSpheres accounts receivable as of the date of the Agreement are received prior to February 28, 2011. This Milestone was not met; Milestone Three Payment : 913 shares of Company common stock, if TerraSphere generates gross margin of $6,000,000 (gross margin refers to gross margin generated specifically from the TerraSphere business) from its operations during the period commencing as of the date of the Agreement and ending on December 31, 2011; provided that, if TerraSphere generates gross margin of at least $4,200,000 (gross margin threshold) from its operations during such period, a pro rata portion of the Company common stock shall be granted the applicable TerraSphere members. This milestone was not met; and Milestone Four Payment : 730 shares of Company common stock, if TerraSphere generates gross margin of $4,000,000 from its operations (gross margin refers to gross margin generated specifically from the TerraSphere business) during any nine-month period commencing on the Agreement date and ending on 26 Table of Contents December 31, 2012; provided that, if TerraSphere achieves the Milestone Three gross margin threshold, but does not achieve the Milestone Three gross margin target, 83.3% of the difference between the Milestone Three gross margin target and the actual gross margins achieved pursuant to the Agreement (the Milestone Three Deficiency) may be added by the Sellers to the Milestone Four Payment and the Milestone Four gross margin target. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the total amounts payable pursuant to the Milestone Three Payment and Milestone Four Payment shall be no more than 1,643 shares of Company common stock. This Milestone will be measured as of December 31, 2012 and we dont expect that this final milestone will be met. In addition, the Agreement contains an anti-dilution provision due to which the Company estimated it would need to issue an additional 408 shares of Company common stock. In determining the fair value of the acquisition costs, the Company determined, with the assistance of an independent valuation expert, that the value ascribed to the shares of the Companys common stock issued on November 12, 2010 to the TerraSphere stockholders electing Option One and Option Two should reflect a discount from the then prevailing market price to account for the six and eighteen month restrictions on the resale of those shares. In addition, the Company determined, with the assistance of an independent valuation expert, that the fair value of the contingent payments under Milestones One, Two, Three and Four, which will be paid by the issuable of a number of shares of common stock which was fixed at November 12, 2010, should be discounted to reflect the potential that the value of those contingent payments might change for the effects of changes in the price of the Companys common stock (the projected volatility of the price of the Companys common stock) over the period until those payments might be issuable. At the date of acquisition, the estimated purchase price at fair value is as follows: Election of Option One $ 2,263,108 Election of Option Two 2,573,582 Milestone One Payment 787,319 Milestone Two Payment 26,383 Milestones Three and Four Payments 773,005 Anti-dilution Provision 837,000 Non-controlling interest 338,074 $ 7,598,471 The estimated purchase price has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed utilizing the services of an independent valuation expert, who used fair value information currently available. The fair value of the non-controlling interest totaling $338,074 was determined based on the fair value assigned for the 95% of TerraSphere Systems that the Company acquired. The preliminary purchase price allocation for TerraSphere is as follows: Cash $ 41,679 Accounts receivable 1,075,000 Other assets 274,313 Leasehold improvements 176,181 Construction-in-process 97,306 Patents and patent related costs 6,710,000 Goodwill 962,427 Assumption of liabilities (1,738,435 ) Total allocation of purchase price $ 7,598,471 27 Table of Contents Converted Organics Inc. recorded the above transaction on November 12, 2010 as follows: Obligations to issue shares (Milestones Three and Four) 773,005 Derivative liability related to anti-dilution provision 837,000 Equity 5,988,466 Total $ 7,598,471 We determined that Milestones Three and Four contained in the Agreement meet the definition of a liability under ASC 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity and therefore this obligation to issue shares is treated as a liability rather than equity when recording the fair value of the acquisition. Obligations to issue shares represent the estimated fair value of shares to be issued for Milestones three and four as described above. In addition, the Company determined that the anti-dilution provision contained in the Agreement meets the definition of a derivative liability. The Company considered various scenarios and possibilities of an occurrence of an event that would trigger the anti-dilution provision. Based on the various scenarios and possibilities the Company estimated it would need to issue an additional 408 shares to the former members of TerraSphere Systems related to this provision. GoLocalProduceRI, LLC Acquisition On December 30, 2010, we acquired 83.34% of GoLocalProduceRI, LLC issuing 274 shares of Company common stock valued at approximately $480,000. This acquisition was made for the purpose of constructing our first owned and operated TerraSphere facility in the United States. As of the filing date of this report we are unable to expend any funds on this project. The estimated purchase price has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed using estimated fair value information at the time of the acquisition. The fair value of the noncontrolling interest totaling $95,954 was determined based on the fair value assigned for the 83.34% of GoLocalProduceRI, LLC that the Company acquired. The purchase price allocation is as follows: Cash $ 56,597 Prepaid and other current assets 45,000 Goodwill 224,357 Reacquired license rights 250,000 Noncontrolling interest (95,954 ) Total $ 480,000 Trends and Uncertainties Affecting our Operations We will be subject to a number of factors that may affect our operations and financial performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the available supply and price of organic food waste, the market for liquid and solid organic fertilizer, increasing energy costs, the unpredictable cost of compliance with environmental and other government regulation, and the time and cost of obtaining USDA, state or other product labeling designations. Demand for organic fertilizer and the resulting prices customers are willing to pay also may not be as high as our market studies suggest. In addition, supply of organic fertilizer products from the use of other technologies or other competitors may adversely affect our selling prices and consequently our overall profitability. In addition, our plan for 2012 includes the sale of additional convertible notes,, leveraging of the IWR license and finding a merger candidate. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in any or all of these efforts. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2011, we had total current assets of approximately $636,000 consisting primarily of cash and fertilizer inventory, and had current liabilities of approximately $11.1 million, consisting primarily of term 28 Table of Contents and convertible notes payable, accounts payable, liabilities from discontinued operations and derivative liabilities leaving us with negative working capital of approximately $10.5 million. Non-current assets totaled approximately $6.2 million and consisted primarily of property and equipment and intangible assets. We have an accumulated deficit at December 31, 2011 of approximately $115 million. We had negative stockholders equity at December 31, 2011, of approximately $4.2 million. For 2011, we generated revenues from continuing operations of approximately $3.2 million as compared to revenue from continuing operations of $3.5 million for the same period in 2010. A full discussion of the variance in revenue is included in the results of operations section below. Although the California fertilizer business is cash flow positive, we do not expect that it will generate enough cash to fund the corporate overheads, even though we have greatly reduced them from 2011 levels and we do not have enough cash to fund any operating activity in the TerraSphere or IWR segments, although we continue to seek ways to generate cash and revenues from the license and patents in both the TerraSphere and IWR segments. While it is uncertain whether there will be continuing cash flows from these segments, any such cash flows will continue to be directly generated as part of the ongoing operations and continued involvement of the Company. Presently, our liquidity is limited to our cash on hand at December 31, 2011, $255,000, and the approximately $2.8 million that we may receive in 2012 as a result of the sale of the additional convertible notes. Through March 28, 2012 we have sold $722,500 of these notes and may sell up to $237,600 per month through December 31, 2012, if certain conditions are met. Currently, all of our warrant issuances are not in the money and our stock price has been less than $.01 per share and, therefore, we do not expect to raise any significant funds due to the exercise of warrants. If we do not receive additional funds in excess of the amount of cash on hand, whether as a result of the exercise of the warrants issued or the convertible note, or otherwise, we will not be able to continue our operations once the cash on hand is utilized. Even in the event that we do receive additional funds, there is no guarantee that such funds will be sufficient to continue operations until we achieve our plan. At this time we do not have any commitments for additional financing, and there is no assurance that capital in any form will be available to us on terms and conditions that are acceptable or at all. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our plan of operation is based in part upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, including the recoverability of tangible and intangible assets, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of expenses during the periods covered. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis. The most significant estimates relate to the recovery of long-lived intangible assets, the estimate of the fair value of consideration in business combinations, the fair value of financial instruments related to equity and debt transactions and estimations of valuation allowances. We base our estimates on historical Company and industry experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements are, by their nature, uncertain and unpredictable, and depend upon, among other things, many factors outside of our control, such as the results of our operations and other economic conditions. Accordingly, our estimates and judgments may prove to be incorrect and actual results may differ, perhaps significantly, from these estimates under different estimates, assumptions or conditions. 29 Table of Contents The following is a brief discussion of our critical accounting policies and methods, and the judgments and estimates used by us in their application: Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when (i) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, (ii) delivery of the product or service has occurred, (iii) the sales price is fixed or determinable, and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. The Companys organic fertilizer operation generates revenues from two sources: product sales and tip fees. Product sales revenue comes from the sale of fertilizer products. Tip fee revenue is derived from waste haulers who pay the Company tip fees for accepting food waste generated by food distributors such as grocery stores, produce docks and fish markets, food processors and hospitality venues such as hotels, restaurants, convention centers and airports. The IWR operation will generate revenue by setting up treatment systems on customers sites and processing their wastewater on a price-per-gallon basis. The Companys vertical farming operation would derive its future revenues from licensing fees, and expects to also derive revenues from license royalties, the sale of equipment and sales from the operation of the Companys own growing facilities using the Companys patented technology. The Company grants exclusive licenses to use the vertical farming Growth System for the remaining 15 year term of the associated patents. The licenses provide for (i) the payment of an initial license fee in installments over periods ranging from nine months to one year, and (ii) the payment of continuing royalties based on a percentage of the licensees sales, subject to an annual minimum. The licenses are generally not transferable without the permission of the Company. In order to grow plants using the technology granted by the license, the licensee will also be required to purchase equipment which incorporates the system, either from the Company or from a manufacturer licensed or contracted by the Company. The licenses are therefore part of a multi-element arrangement, for which revenue cannot be recognized until the delivered elements have stand alone value. The Company has determined that the elements delivered under these arrangements will have stand alone value at such time as the licensee has received both the license and the equipment, or the license and the Companys permission to resell the license. License fees received in cash or recorded as receivable due prior to the time the delivered elements have stand alone value are deferred as deferred revenue. In addition, some of the installment payments due under the licenses were deemed to not be reasonably assured of collection. Receivables for such installment payments are recorded as an asset offset by a valuation allowance. When payments of such installments are received the related revenue is deferred if the elements delivered under that license do not yet have stand alone value. Share-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments exchanged for services in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Section 718 Compensation Stock Compensation (ASC 718) regarding share-based compensation. Under the provisions of ASC 718, share-based compensation issued to employees is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the grant). Share-based compensation issued to non-employees is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instruments issued, whichever is more readily measurable, and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period. Long-Lived Assets We account for our long-lived assets (excluding goodwill) in accordance with ASC Section 360 Property, Plant and Equipment (ASC 360), which requires that long-lived assets and certain intangible assets be reviewed 30 Table of Contents for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, such as technological changes or significantly increased competition. If undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets, an impairment loss is to be recognized based on the fair value of the assets, calculated using an undiscounted cash flow model. There is inherent subjectivity and judgments involved in cash flow analyses such as estimating revenue and cost growth rates, residual or terminal values and discount rates, which can have a significant impact on the amount of any impairment. Derivative Instruments We account for derivative instruments in accordance with ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815), which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other financial instruments or contracts and requires recognition of all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. Accounting for changes in the fair value of derivative instruments depends on whether the derivatives qualify as hedge relationships and the types of relationships designated are based on the exposures hedged. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we did not have any derivative instruments that were designated as hedges. Discontinued Operations We discontinued the operations of our Woodbridge, NJ facility during the third quarter of 2010. Assets and liabilities related to the Woodbridge, NJ facility have been classified as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 and its operations have been classified as loss from discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Fair Value Measurements Fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement. Therefore, a fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, ASC 820 Fair Value Measurements (ASC 820) establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs that are classified within Levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy) and the reporting entitys own assumptions about market participant assumptions (unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy): Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access. Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs may include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, as well as inputs that are observable for the asset or liability (other than quoted prices), such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability which are typically based on an entitys own assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity. In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. Income Taxes We consider the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets to be a significant accounting estimate. In applying ASC 740 Income Taxes (ASC 740), management estimates future taxable income from operations and tax planning strategies in determining if it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefits of our deferred tax assets. Management believes the Company does not have any uncertain tax positions. 31 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2011-04 Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurements and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs (ASU No. 2011-04) which will supersede most of the accounting guidance currently found in Topic 820 of FASBs ASC. The amendments will improve comparability of fair value measurements presented and disclosed in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The amendments also clarify the application of existing fair value measurement requirements. These amendments include (1) the application of the highest and best use and valuation premise concepts, (2) measuring the fair value of an instrument classified in a reporting entitys shareholders equity and (3) disclosing quantitative information about the unobservable inputs used within the Level 3 hierarchy. The guidance is effective for the Companys interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and will be applied prospectively. We have evaluated this new ASU and have determined that it will not have a significant impact on the determination or reporting of our financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) Presentation of Comprehensive Income (ASU No. 2011-05) which eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of stockholders equity. The amendments require that all non-owner changes in stockholders equity must be presented in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Regardless of whether an entity chooses to present comprehensive income in a single continuous statement or in two separate but consecutive statements the entity is required to present on the face of the consolidated financial statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. The guidance is effective for the Companys interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and will be applied prospectively. We have evaluated this new ASU and have determined that it will not have a significant impact on the determination or reporting of our financial statements. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment (ASU No. 2011-08). The provisions of ASU No. 2011-08 permits an entity an option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is required. Otherwise, no further impairment testing is required. ASU No. 2011-08 includes examples of events and circumstances that may indicate that a reporting units fair value is less than its carrying amount. The provisions of ASU No. 2011-08 are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted provided that the entity has not yet performed its annual impairment test for goodwill. We have evaluated this new ASU and have determined that it will not have a significant impact on the determination or reporting of our financial statements. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassification of Items out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) in Accounting Standards update No. 2011-05 , which deferred the effective date for the amendments to the reclassification of items out of AOCI. The guidance, with the exception of reclassification adjustments, is effective on January 1, 2012 and must be applied retrospectively for all periods presented. . We have evaluated this new ASU and have determined that it will not have a significant impact on the determination or reporting of our financial statements. In April 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010-17, Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition. This ASU allows entities to make a policy election to use the milestone method of revenue recognition and provides guidance on defining a milestone and the criteria that should be met for applying the milestone method. The scope of this ASU is limited to the transactions involving milestones relating to research and development deliverables. The guidance includes enhanced disclosure requirements about each arrangement, individual milestones and related contingent consideration, substantive milestones and factors considered in that determination. The amendments in this ASU are effective prospectively to milestones achieved in fiscal years, 32 Table of Contents and interim periods within those years, beginning after June 15, 2010. Early application and retrospective application are permitted. We have evaluated this new ASU and have determined that the adoption of this ASU did not have a significant impact on the determination or reporting of our financial results. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-28 (Topic 350) When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts. The amendments in ASU 2010-28 modify Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that impairment may exist. ASU 2010-28 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2010 for public entities. Early adoption is not permitted. We have evaluated this new ASU and have determined that the adoption of this ASU did not have a significant impact on the determination or reporting of our financial results. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-29, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations. ASU 2010-29 specifies that when a public company completes a business combination, the company should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period. The update also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures under Topic 805 to include a description of the nature and amount of material, non-recurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the pro forma revenue and earnings. The requirements in ASU 2010-29 are effective for business combinations that occur after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. We have evaluated this new ASU and have determined that the adoption of this ASU did not have a significant impact on the determination or reporting of our financial results. Results of Operations Summary of Comprehensive Loss from All Operations For the year ended December 31, 2011 we reported a comprehensive loss attributable to Convertible Organics Inc. of $17,400,418 compared to $47,710,614 (as restated) for the year ended December 31, 2010. The major components of this loss are as follows: Twelve months ended December 31, 2011 2010 Loss from Continuing Operations $ (18,212,353 ) $ (13,118,754 ) Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations 231,494 (34,690,358 ) Non-Controlling Interest 540,844 99,871 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment 39,597 (1,373 ) Total Comprehensive Loss Attributable to Converted Organics Inc. $ (17,400,418 ) $ (47,710,614 ) 33 Table of Contents Results of Continuing Operations For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had an after tax net loss from continuing operations of approximately $18.2 million compared to approximately $13.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in the net loss of approximately $5.1 million is made up of the following favorable and (unfavorable) major components, with further explanation and details following the table: Decrease in Sales $ (373,000 ) Decrease in Cost of Goods 216,000 Decrease in General and Administrative Expenses 4,486,000 Decrease in Research and Development Expenses 270,000 Increase in Amortization (351,000 ) Goodwill Impairment (1,187,000 ) Intangible Asset Impairment (3,563,000 ) Decrease in Other Income (117,000 ) Gain on Obligation to Issue Shares Revaluation 641,000 Loss on Abandonment of Asset (952,000 ) Loss on Debt Modification (2,357,000 ) Derivative Gain 4,441,000 Increase in Interest Expense (6,473,000 ) Gain on Settlement of Debt 225,000 Total Variance from Continuing Operations $ 5,094,000 For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had sales from continuing operations of approximately $3.15 million compared to approximately $3.53 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The $373,000 decrease is composed of decreases in sales of $550,000 from our Gonzales, CA facility (attributed to both weather and customer volume), a decrease in sales of $252,000 from our chicken litter-based fertilizer product (product was discontinued in 2010) and a decrease in sales of $250,000 from TerraSphere licensing activities offset by increases of $398,000 from our wastewater operation in Colorado and $281,000 from our dry product fertilizer sales from an outsourced supplier. For the year ended December 31, 2011 we had cost of goods sold from continuing operations of approximately $2.31 million compared to approximately $2.52 million for the same period in 2010. Of the approximately $216,000 decrease in cost of goods, $597,000 is related to our Gonzales, CA facility and $134,000 is related to chicken litter fertilizer product offset by increases in our dry fertilizer product of $376,000 and $139,000 related to our IWR operation. We incurred general and administrative expenses of approximately $8.8 million and approximately $13.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The approximately $4.5 million decrease in general and administrative expenses is due to increases of approximately $1.80 million to operate our TerraSphere segment offset by decreases in marketing costs of approximately $750,000, consulting expenses of approximately $1.75 million, professional fees of approximately $1.4 million associated with 2010 acquisition activities, results of various cost savings activities of approximately $600,000. a reduction in non-cash compensation expense related to the issuance of stock options of approximately $1.4 million and a reduction in our reserve for bad debts of approx. $200,000. We incurred research and development costs of approximately $18,000 and $288,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. A major part of the decrease of $270,000 is due to less spending, as we had completed most of our field testing on our products and we were limited due to cash constraints. We incurred a loss on goodwill impairment of approximately $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. This loss was due to our estimated recovery of goodwill purchased in the TerraSphere and GoLocal acquisitions. We did not have any goodwill impairment for the year ended December 31, 2010. We incurred a loss on the impairment of intangible assets of approximately $3,563,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011. This loss was due to our analysis of the carrying value of the reacquired license rights related to the GoLocal acquisition ($250,000) and technology patents acquired in the TerraSphere acquisition ($3,313,000). We did not have any intangible asset impairment for the year ended December 31, 2010. 34 Table of Contents We recognized a gain on obligations to issue shares of approximately $641,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011. This is a non-cash gain and is related to the shares of common stock to be issued in the TerraSphere milestone calculations and is also related to the decline in our current stock price. We incurred a loss on abandonment of assets of approximately $952,000 or the year ended December 31, 2011. This loss was due to the termination of our IWR operating agreement in Colorado. We did not have any loss on abandonment of assets for the year ended December 31, 2010. We incurred a loss on debt modification of approximately $2.36 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. This loss was due to the restructuring of our April 1, 2011 convertible notes, twice during 2011 and the lowering of the exercise price of a non-derivative warrant. The loss is a non cash loss based upon market price of the stock at the time of debt modification. We did not have debt modifications for the year ended December 31, 2010. During 2011, we recognized derivative gains of approximately $5.8 million compared to derivative gains of approximately $1.4 million for 2010 due to the mark-to-market adjustments of certain financial instruments and additional instruments being issued. This is a non-cash item and did not contribute cash for the gain recorded in 2011 and 2010. Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was approximately $8.20 million and $1.73 million, respectively. Interest expense in 2011 was associated with various notes held by the Company of approximately $400,000 and a non cash interest expense of approximately $7.8 million associated with the derivative elements contained in our convertible debt, while for the components of interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately $200,000 related to various notes held by the Company and approximately $1.5 million associated with derivative elements contained in our convertible debt. Interest expense associated with derivative elements is non cash in nature. During 2011, we recognized a gain on settlement of debt in connection with our acquisition of TerraSphere Systems LLC, as we assumed a note payable from a third party in the amount of $350,000, with a fixed interest rate of 15% per annum. On March 9, 2011, the Company entered into an agreement whereby in consideration of receiving a lump sum cash payment of $125,000, the third party released and discharged the Company from all obligations under the note. As of December 31, 2011, we had current assets of approximately $637,000 compared to approximately $4.0 million as of December 31, 2010. Our total assets were approximately $6.9 million as of December 31, 2011 compared to approximately $15.9 million as of December 31, 2010. Current assets decreased in all classifications, except for inventory. However, the majority of the decrease year over year was due to a decrease in cash used to operate the business and accounts receivable from business operations. A majority of the decrease in long term assets in 2011 was represented by the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets associated with our TerraSphere and GoLocal acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, we had current liabilities of approximately $11.1 million compared to approximately $12.1 million at December 31, 2010. This decrease of approximately $1.0 million is due largely to a decrease in accounts payable and a decrease in liabilities relating to discontinued operations offset by increases in convertible notes and derivative liabilities. In addition, we had no long-term liabilities as of December 31, 2011 as compared to approximately $1.9 million at December 31, 2010. The decrease is due to a decrease in derivative liabilities. For the year ended December 31, 2011 we had negative cash flows from operating activities of approximately $5.72 million, comprised of loss from operations of approximately $14.67 million adjusted for certain non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, non-cash interest expense associated with the issuance of convertible debt, the write-down of impaired assets, amortization of deferred financing fees, an early termination lease penalty and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses. We also had negative cash flows from investing activities of approximately $1.23 million, primarily related to purchase of fixed assets at our IWR operation in Colorado. The negative cash flows from both operating and investing activities was offset by approximately $4.12 million in positive cash flows from financing activities comprised of proceeds from our various convertible debt transactions. The result of the above activities decreased our cash position by approximately $2.79 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. 35 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2010 we had negative cash flows from operating activities of approximately $11.50 million, comprised of loss from operations of approximately $47.81 million adjusted for certain non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, non-cash interest expense associated with the issuance of convertible debt, the write-down of impaired assets at our Woodbridge, NJ facility, amortization of deferred financing fees, an early termination lease penalty and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses. We also had negative cash flows from investing activities of approximately $446,000, primarily related to purchase of fixed assets and other assets off-set by the release of restricted cash. The negative cash flows from both operating and investing activities was offset by approximately $4.28 million in positive cash flows from financing activities comprising proceeds from our various debt and equity transactions offset by repayments of debt obligations. The result of the above activities decreased our cash position by approximately $7.67 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Results of Discontinued Operations On July 30, 2010, the Company temporarily halted production at its Woodbridge, NJ facility in order to undertake steps to lower its cost structure at the facility. Specifically, the Company attempted to negotiate more favorable terms under its operating lease and to lower certain utility costs. The Company was unable to lower such costs and therefore, management determined that the Company could not sustain the negative cash flow and discontinued operations at the Woodbridge, NJ facility during the quarter ended September 30, 2010. As a result, the Company recognized an impairment charge on the long-lived assets of the Woodbridge, NJ facility that reduced the carrying value of those assets to approximately $1.5 million, which was the value expected to be received from the disposition of those assets. The consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss includes an impairment charge pertaining to those long-lived assets of approximately $15.38 million which is included in loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010. On October 18, 2010, the bonds payable and related accrued interest totaling approximately $18.5 million were settled and extinguished for approximately $17.5 million of the Companys preferred stock (See Note 11). In addition, as described below, the Company entered into a series of transactions on October 18, 2010 whereby certain assets and liabilities were assigned, transferred and or extinguished. On October 18, 2010, the Company and the Woodbridge, NJ facilitys landlord (Lessor) entered into a Termination and Surrender Agreement (Termination Agreement) related to the termination of the Woodbridge Facility lease. Pursuant to the Termination Agreement, the Lessor and the Company agreed to terminate the lease surrendering the premises and transferring all equipment, tools and fixtures owned by the Company and presently located at the premises. Under the lease, there were approximately $9.1 million of future rental payments. In addition, the Lessor asserted claims for (i) unpaid sewer and trash removal charges; (ii) unpaid rent due Lessor for prior periods; (iii) certain costs and expenses incurred by Lessor in connection with certain litigation; (iv) damages that may result from the condition of the premises at the time of surrender; and (v) the required removal and disposal of abandoned inventory and materials totaling approximately $2.4 million. Pursuant to the terms of the Termination Agreement, the Company agreed to transfer the Woodbridge, NJ facilitys assets to the Lessor with a carrying value of approximately $1.5 million and to issue the Lessor a total of 179 shares of the Companys common stock valued at $2,800 per share totaling $500,000 and to surrender deposits totaling approximately $415,000 with the Lessor in exchange for settlement of the asserted claims of approximately $2.4 million. On October 18, 2010, the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles entered an Order in the matter entitled American Capital Management, LLC (ACM) v. Converted Organics Inc. and Converted Organics of Woodbridge, LLC and Does 1-10 Inclusive (the Order). The Order provides for the full and final settlement of approximately $11.3 million of claims against the Company held by ACM. The claims include the future rental payments of approximately $9.1 million discussed above, as well as approximately $1.7 million of promissory notes issued by the Company to four contractors that had provided services to the Woodbridge, NJ facility (See Note 15 and approximately $400,000 for other facility costs which were acquired by ACM from the Lessor. ACM purchased the claims from these parties pursuant to separate claims purchase agreements. Pursuant to the terms of the Order, the Company agreed to issue to ACM a total of 4,145 shares of Company common stock valued at $2,715 per share totaling approximately $11.3 million in full and final settlement of the claims. 36 Table of Contents The $9.34 million loss recognized on disposal includes the approximately $9.1 million loss on early termination of the lease, approximately $796,000 of prepaid facility costs and approximately $400,000 of other facility costs, net of a gain of approximately $1.0 million for bond interest waived in conjunction with the settlement and extinguishment of the bonds payable as described above. The following table summarizes the components of the loss from discontinued operations: 2011 2010 Revenue from discontinued operations $ $ 830,814 Income (loss) from discontinued operations $ 231,494 $ (34,690,358 ) The Company recognized income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 as a result of favorable settlements with certain of its creditors. The Company does not expect to have any continuing positive cash flows from operations associated with the Woodbridge, NJ facility. The following table provides the assets and liabilities of the Woodbridge, NJ facility, classified as discontinued operations, in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010: 2011 2010 Accounts receivable, net $ $ 14,500 Assets of discontinued operations $ $ 14,500 Accounts payable $ 528,377 $ 837,606 Accrued expenses 1,571,874 Other liabilities 28,773 Liabilities of discontinued operations $ 528,377 $ 2,438,253 On January 25, 2011, the Company paid cash of $150,000 and issued 640 shares of Company common stock totaling $1,494,000 in payment for consulting services accrued at December 31, 2010 related to the settlement of certain Woodbridge, NJ obligations. The Company is actively working with vendors to satisfy the liabilities outstanding at December 31, 2011. Restatement Year ended December 31, 2010 The consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 have been restated from the financial statements previously reported in the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, as follows: TerraSphere Acquisition Accounting : The accounting for the acquisition of TerraSphere (see Note 16 in the financial statement section of this report) has been restated to correct both the valuation of the components of the acquisition costs and the allocation of the acquisition costs. The Company determined, with the assistance of an independent valuation expert, that the value ascribed to the shares of the Companys common stock issued on November 12, 2010 to the TerraSphere stockholders electing Option One and Option Two should be adjusted to reflect a discount from the then prevailing market price to account for the six and eighteen month restrictions on the resale of those shares. In addition, the Company determined, with the assistance of an independent valuation expert, that the fair value of the contingent payments under Milestones One, Two, Three and Four, which would be paid by the issuance of a number of shares of common stock which was fixed at November 12, 2010, should be adjusted (discounted) to reflect the potential that the value of those contingent payments might change for the effects of changes in the price of the Companys common stock (the projected volatility of the price of the Companys common stock) over the period until those payments might be issuable. The Company also corrected its assessment of the likelihood that Milestone Two (the collection of $2.0 million of TerraSphere accounts receivable by February 28, 2011) would be achieved. These adjustments reduced the fair value of the total acquisition cost from $12.7 million to $7.6 million, as set forth below. 37 Table of Contents The changes to the valuation of the acquisition consideration changed the internal rate of return indicated by the terms of the purchase agreement. The Company determined, with the assistance of an independent valuation expert, that this change to the indicated internal rate of return required a change to the discount rate applied to projected cash flows to determine the fair value of TerraSpheres identifiable intangible assets (principally patents). In addition, the Company corrected the fair value assigned to the accounts receivable of TerraSphere to reflect, among other things, the correction that TerraSphere made to the revenue recognition accounting reflected in its own financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. These changes to the fair values assigned to TerraSpheres identifiable intangible assets and accounts receivable, together with the changes to the fair value of the acquisition costs discussed above, resulted in a reduction of the goodwill recorded for TerraSphere from $1.2 million to $962,000. The Company determined that these changes to the fair value of the acquired assets, although determined in part on the basis of the consideration of an independent valuation report received in 2011, were of such magnitude and cause as to treat them as corrections of errors rather than revisions to preliminary acquisition cost allocations. The following sets forth the changes to the fair value of the acquisition costs and the allocation of the acquisition costs: As previously reported Restatement adjustments As restated Components of acquisition cost Election of option one $ 2,961,000 $ (697,892 ) $ 2,263,108 Election of option two 4,490,000 (1,916,418 ) 2,573,582 Milestone One 1,403,000 (615,681 ) 787,319 Milestone two 711,000 (684,617 ) 26,383 Milestone three and four 1,684,000 (910,995 ) 773,005 Anti-dilution 837,000 837,000 Non-controlling interest 648,644 (310,570 ) 338,074 $ 12,734,644 $ 7,598,471 Allocation of acquisition cost Cash $ 41,679 $ 41,679 Accounts receivable 2,690,000 (1,615,000 ) 1,075,000 Other assets 274,313 274,313 Leasehold improvements 176,181 176,181 Construction in progress 97,306 97,306 Patents 10,000,000 (3,290,000 ) 6,710,000 Goodwill 1,193,600 (231,173 ) 962,427 Assumption of liabilities (1,738,435 ) (1,738,435 ) $ 12,734,644 $ 7,598,471 The reduction in the amount assigned to the TerraSphere acquired accounts receivable resulted in a reduction in the bad debt expense related to these accounts receivable recorded by the Company in the year ended December 31, 2010 from $2,283,000 to $725,000. In addition, the reduction in the amount assigned to TerraSpheres finite life intangible assets resulted in a reduction of the amortization of those assets of approximately $26,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010. GoLocalProduceRI, LLC Acquisition Accounting : The accounting for the acquisition of GoLocalProduceRI, LLC (see Note 16 in the financial statement section of this report) has been restated to allocate $250,000 of the purchase price previously allocated to goodwill to the license rights which the Company sold to GoLocalProduceRI, LLC in November, 2010 and reacquired as the result of this acquisition. 38 Table of Contents Derivative Accounting : The Company accounts for the conversion features contained in certain convertible notes and certain common stock purchase warrants as derivatives under ASC 815 due to the anti-dilution features contained in those instruments. The carrying amount of these derivative liabilities is adjusted to market value at the end of each reporting period based on the calculation of their market value using the Bi-Nomial Lattice model with any changes reflected in income or loss (see Note 9 in the financial statement section of this report). In connection with the determination of the volatility index that should be used in valuing the contingent payments under Milestones One, Two, Three and Four of the TerraSphere acquisition, the Company determined that the volatility index previously used to determine the fair value of these derivative liabilities and the resulting derivative gain or loss was incorrect. The correction of the volatility index resulted in a $1,549,290 reduction in the derivative liability, and a corresponding change to the derivative gain or loss, for the year ended December 31, 2010. The following sets forth the effects if the restatements described above on the affected financial statement line items as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 (all share and per share data has also been retroactively adjusted to reflect the effects of the November 7, 2011 1:10 reverse stock split and the effects of the February 22, 2012 1:500 reverse stock split): As previously reported Restatement adjustments As restated As of December 31, 2010 Accounts receivable, net $ 579,946 $ 270,000 $ 309,946 Goodwill 1,667,957 481,173 1,186,784 Intangible assets, net 11,629,265 3,014,019 8,615,246 Obligation to issue shares 1,560,715 910,995 649,720 Derivative liabilitiescurrent portion 8,675,619 1,549,290 7,126,329 Additional paid-in capital 85,555,990 3,906,063 81,649,927 Accumulated deficit (100,453,292 ) (2,851,722 ) (97,601,570 ) Stockholders Equity Attributable to Converted Organics Inc. 2,610,136 1,062,886 1,547,250 Noncontrolling interests 576,178 242,021 334,157 Total stockholders equity 3,186,314 1,304,907 1,881,407 For the year ended December 31, 2010 Selling, general and administrative expenses 14,625,568 (1,345,000 ) 13,280,568 Amortization of intangibles 367,461 (25,981 ) 341,480 Loss from continuing operations (14,277,559 ) 1,370,981 (12,906,578 ) Derivative gain (loss) (166,712 ) 1,549,290 1,382,578 Loss from continuing operations before provision for income taxes (16,039,025 ) 2,920,271 (13,118,754 ) Loss from continuing operations (16,039,025 ) 2,920,271 (13,118,754 ) Net loss (50,729,383 ) 2,920,271 (47,809,112 ) Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (168,156 ) 266,763 99,607 Net loss attributable to Converted Organics, Inc. before other comprehensive loss (50,561,227 ) 2,851,722 (47,709,505 ) Comprehensive loss (50,562,600 ) 2,851,722 (47,710,878 ) Comprehensive loss attributable to Converted Organics Inc. $ (50,562,336 ) $ 2,851,722 $ (47,710,614 ) Net loss per share, basic and diluted Continuing operations $ (1,712.18 ) $ (1,400.44 ) Net loss per share $ (5,415.41 ) $ (5,103.67 ) Weighted average common shares outstanding 9,368 9,368 39 Table of Contents Interim Periods in Year ended December 31, 2011 (unaudited): The Company has restated its unaudited results of operations for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2011 (the results of operation for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 which have been restated are those previously restated and disclosed in the Companys Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011). The impairment charge of $2.1 million recorded by the Company in the three months ended June 30, 2011 has been reduced to a charge of $1.2 million as the result to the changes to the amounts recorded as goodwill in 2010 for the TerraSphere and GoLocal acquisitions, as described above. Charges for the quarterly amortization of intangible assets have been restated to reflect the effects of the changes to the amounts recorded for intangible assets in 2010 for the TerraSphere and GoLocal acquisitions, as described above. Changes in the quarterly gain or loss on the Obligation to Issue shares have been restated to reflect the effect of the decrease in that obligation as of December 31, 2010 as a result of the restated fair value of the acquisition costs. The derivative gain or loss for each quarter did not have to be recalculated to reflect the use of a different volatility index, as it was determined that the only restatement for the incorrect volatility was at December 31, 2010. The effect of each of these corrections on each of the three months ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2011 is as follows: Increase (decrease) in net loss (unaudited) Three months ended March 31, 2011 June 30, 2011 September 30, 2011 Restatement of goodwill impairment $ $ (1,186,784 ) $ Restatement of amortization of intangible assets (48,382 ) (48,382 ) (48,382 ) Restatement of fair value of obligation to issue shares (96,458 ) (651,093 ) (48,229 ) $ (144,840 ) $ (1,886,259 ) $ (96,611 ) 40 Table of Contents The restated unaudited results of operations for each of the three months ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2011 are as follows (all share and per share data has also been retroactively adjusted to reflect the effects of the November 7, 2011 1:10 reverse stock split and the effects of the February 22, 2012 1:500 reverse stock split): (unaudited) Three months ended March 31, 2011 June 30, 2011 September 30, 2011 Revenues $ 739,176 $ 1,429,710 $ 687,659 Cost of goods sold 504,467 953,959 515,284 Gross income 234,709 475,751 172,375 Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses 2,317,174 3,801,637 1,361,634 Research and development 15,871 152 Amortization of intangibles 172,885 172,993 173,075 Goodwill impairment 962,427 2,505,930 4,937,209 1,534,709 Loss from continuing operations (2,271,221 ) (4,461,458 ) (1,362,334 ) Other income (expense) Other income (expense) 171,309 21,930 (21,396 ) Gain on change in fair value of obligations to issue shares (96,458 ) 457,836 33,914 Gain on settlement of debt 225,000 Derivative gain (loss) 2,397,783 6,851,730 (2,297,229 ) Loss on debt modification Interest expense (2,274,462 ) (3,565,784 ) (1,411,805 ) 423,172 3,765,712 (3,696,516 ) Loss from continuing operations before provision for income taxes (1,848,049 ) (695,746 ) (5,058,850 ) Provision for income taxes Loss from continuing operations (1,848,049 ) (695,746 ) (5,058,850 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (499 ) 146,970 49,447 Net loss (1,848,548 ) (548,776 ) (5,009,403 ) Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (60,995 ) (192,281 ) (187,904 ) Net loss attributable to Converted Organics Inc. before other comprehensive loss (1,787,553 ) (356,495 ) (4,821,499 ) Other comprehensive loss Foreign currency translation adjustment (10,496 ) (3,808 ) 85,449 Comprehensive loss (1,798,049 ) (360,303 ) (4,736,050 ) Comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (2,020 ) (734 ) 16,449 Comprehensive loss attributable to Converted Organics Inc. $ (1,796,029 ) $ (359,569 ) $ (4,752,499 ) Net loss per share, basic and diluted Continuing operations $ (99.57 ) $ (31.32 ) $ (179.90 ) Discontinued operations (0.03 ) 6.62 1.76 Net loss per share $ (99.59 ) $ (24.70 ) $ (178.15 ) Weighted average common shares outstanding 18,561 22,215 28,120 41 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Transactions We do not engage in material off-balance sheet transactions.