ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion includes forward-looking statements about our business, financial condition and results of operations, including discussions about managements expectations for our business. These statements represent projections, beliefs and expectations based on current circumstances and conditions and in light of recent events and trends, and you should not construe these statements either as assurances of performance or as promises of a given course of action. Instead, various known and unknown factors are likely to cause our actual performance and managements actions to vary, and the results of these variances may be both material and adverse. A description of material factors known to us that may cause our results to vary, or may cause management to deviate from its current plans and expectations, is set forth under Risk Factors. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. The following discussion should also be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements including the notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this filing. Overview Effective as of June 3, 2013, the date we consummated the Reverse Merger and changed our name from Converted Organics, Inc. to Finjan Holdings, Inc., we operate two businesses, each of which constitutes a separate reportable segment. Our two reportable segments include: our web and network security technology segment, which we operate through Finjan, and our organic fertilizer segment, which we operate through Converted Organics. Finjan is considered the acquirer for accounting purposes in the Reverse Merger and we account for the transaction as a reverse business combination. Consequently, the assets and liabilities and the historical operations that are reflected in our historical financial statements are those of Finjan. The results of operations of our organic fertilizer segment have been included in our assets and liabilities and our historical operations since June 3, 2013, the date we completed the Reverse Merger. 27 Table of Contents We intend to carry on our web and network security technology business as our principal line of business. We are evaluating whether to continue our organic fertilizer business as currently conducted. There can be no assurance that we will continue to operate our organic fertilizer business as previously operated or at all. Web and Network Security Technology Segment We operate our web and network security business through Finjan. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents, related to software that proactively detects malicious code and thereby protects end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other online threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented technology that is capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based, basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers, which were standard in the online security industry during the 1990s. As the network, web and endpoint security industries have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that our technology is widely used by third parties. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of our technology through further licensing and to broaden our technology and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. As a core element of our continued patent licensing and enforcement business, our management team, having expertise with technology and IP monetization, alongside early company executives including Shlomo Touboul (Finjans founder) who consults with us, we monitor a number of markets and assess and observe the adoption of our patented technology in these markets. Our management team, in conjunction with outside legal, technical, and financial experts conclude on a case-by-case basis whether or not they believe that Finjans patented technology is being used. Based on these observations, we continue to believe our patented technologies are relevant in specific technology areas including endpoint/cloud software, web gateway/internet infrastructure, and networking equipment markets. From that basis, the Company pursues unlicensed entities through licensing, assertion of claims or both. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2009, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the enforcement of its patent rights against unauthorized use and, to a lesser extent, income derived from intellectual property licenses granted to third parties for the use of patented technologies that are owned by Finjan. Although the Company is actively pursuing negotiated licenses apart from litigation settlements, the Company has not entered into a license agreement outside of a settlement since its 2012 negotiated license agreement with Trustwave (see Business Our Web and Network Security Technology Business Development of Finjans Business for additional information regarding such license). Finjans operating expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses. Finjan did not have any full-time employees from 2009 until 2013. Instead, Finjan relied on outside legal counsel, technology consultants and other professionals to conduct operations during that period, some of whom are former investors and executives of Finjan. Accordingly, Finjans general and administrative expenses consist primarily of legal fees and other expenses paid to third party consultants. In April 2013, Finjan engaged Philip Hartstein and Shimon Steinmetz to serve as its President and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, pursuant to consulting agreements, which were terminated upon the execution of employment agreements between the Company and Messrs. Hartstein and Steinmetz. Prior to April 2013, Finjans sole executive officer was Daniel Chinn, serving as Chief Executive Officer, who did not receive compensation for his services as an officer of Finjan. Messrs. Hartstein and Steinmetz were appointed as our President and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, upon the closing of the Reverse Merger. Since the Reverse Merger we have hired an additional six employees, including our Vice President, Intellectual Property (IP) Licensing and Vice President, Legal Operations. We intend to hire or engage additional full-time employees and/or consultants to pursue our growth strategy, although there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified personnel on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our management team and additional personnel that we may hire in the future will be primarily responsible for establishing and pursuing our licensing and enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and enforcement opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing technology and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. We nonetheless expect to continue to utilize outside legal counsel and other professionals to execute aspects of our strategy for the foreseeable future, such as counsel we will retain to prosecute enforcement actions, although our management will control our overall litigation strategy and our strategy for each case we litigate. Organic Fertilizer Segment We operate a processing facility in Gonzales, CA that uses food and agricultural waste as raw materials to manufacture organic fertilizer and soil amendment products combining nutritional and disease suppression characteristics for sale to our agribusiness market. The Gonzales, CA facility is our production facility that services the West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. This facility uses proprietary technology and process known as High Temperature Liquid Composting, or HTLC, which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and food waste-based fertilizer and a limited amount of solids that could be further processed into a useable form for use in agriculture, retail, and professional turf markets. 28 Table of Contents We are evaluating whether to continue our organic fertilizer business. There can be no assurance that we will continue to operate our organic fertilizer business as previously operated or at all. Restatement On July 17, 2013, the Company filed a registration statement on Form S-1 which included consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 with patent infringement settlements and licensing income classified as other income. Subsequently, the Company filed a series of amendments on Forms S-1/A wherein the patent infringement settlements and licensing income in the consolidated statements of operations were reclassified as revenue due to a change in the Companys business model. The portion of consideration received from the settlement of litigation, net of any contingent legal fees, representing the value of any legal release, which had previously been classified as revenues is now reported as gain on settlements within other income on the consolidated statements of operations. The portion of settlement proceeds representing the license granted, which had previously been included in revenues, is now recorded as settlement proceeds for modification of licensing agreement within other income on the consolidated statements of operations. Other legal costs incurred in connection with patent infringement litigation and previously classified as costs of revenues, are now included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. The Company has since determined that the patent infringement settlements and licensing income are subject to multiple element accounting. However, the fair value models used to arrive at the litigation settlements are sealed by the court and are not readily available to support the Companys classification of such amounts as revenue. Consequently, the Company is unable to readily determine or support the fair value of the multiple elements of the settlement. Accordingly, the Company has restated the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012 and the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 included in the Companys Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 included in the Companys Form S-1/A filed on January 21, 2014, in order to correct the classification of the consideration received upon the settlement of patent infringement litigation in the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. Such restatements did not have an impact on previously reported net income (loss) or net income (loss) per share, total equity and total assets. Significant Developments During 2013 Strategic Investment On November 21, 2013, we made a strategic investment in an Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund seeking to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies on the leading edge of cybersecurity innovation. If and when we fund the entire amount of the investment, the investment will be less than a 10% limited partnership interest in which we will not be able to exercise control over the fund. 1-for-12 Reverse Stock Split Effective as of 12:01 a.m. on August 22, 2013, we effected a 1-for-12 reverse stock split of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, immediately following the effectiveness of which every 12 issued and outstanding shares of our common stock automatically converted into one share of our common stock. Any of our stockholders that would otherwise have been entitled to a fraction of a share of common stock (after aggregating all fractional shares of our common stock to be received by such stockholder) as a result of the 1-for-12 reverse stock split, received an additional share of our common stock (i.e., the aggregate number of shares of common stock of a stockholder resulting from the 1-for-12 reverse stock split were rounded up to the nearest whole number). The 1-for-12 reverse stock split did not affect the number of shares of capital stock that we are authorized to issue or the par value of our common stock. The 1-for-12 reverse stock split was approved by our board of directors and the holders of a majority of our common stock, by written consent in lieu of a meeting, on July 5, 2013. All share, share equivalents, and per share information within this 10-K is presented on an as adjusted basis, giving effect to the 1-for-12 reverse stock split, unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires. Employment Agreements On July 8, 2013, we entered into an employment agreement (the Hartstein Employment Agreement) with Philip Hartstein, pursuant to which Mr. Hartstein serves as our president. The Hartstein Employment Agreement provides for a base salary and a discretionary bonus at the end of every four month period of his employment term, based on Mr. Hartsteins performance and our overall progress. The Hartstein Employment Agreement was effective as of July 1, 2013. Either we or Mr. Hartstein may terminate the Hartstein Employment Agreement at any time upon 90 days prior written notice. The Hartstein Employment Agreement superseded a consulting agreement between Finjan, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, and Mr. Hartstein that provided for substantially the same compensation as described above. The consulting agreement between Finjan, Inc. and Mr. Hartstein ceased to be effective upon the entry into the Hartstein Employment Agreement. On July 8, 2013, we entered into an agreement (the Steinmetz Employment Agreement) with Shimon Steinmetz, pursuant to which Mr. Steinmetz serves as our chief financial officer. The Steinmetz Employment Agreement provides for a base salary and a discretionary bonus at the end of each calendar year during his employment term, based on Mr. Steinmetzs performance and the our overall progress. The Steinmetz Employment Agreement was effective as of July 1, 2013. Either we or Mr. Steinmetz may terminate the Steinmetz Employment Agreement at any time upon 90 days prior written notice. The Steinmetz Employment Agreement superseded a consulting agreement between Finjan, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, and Mr. Steinmetz that provided for substantially the same compensation as described above. The consulting agreement between Finjan, Inc. and Mr. Steinmetz ceased to be effective upon the entry into the Steinmetz Employment Agreement. Patent Litigation On July 8, 2013, Finjan filed a patent infringement lawsuit against FireEye, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. Finjan is asserting that FireEye, Inc. is infringing upon several of Finjans patents. On August 8, 2013, Finjan filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Blue Coat Systems, Inc., for infringement of Finjan patents relating to endpoint, web, and network security technologies On September 24, 2013, Finjan filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Websense, Inc., for infringement of Finjan patents relating to endpoint, web, and network security technologies. On December 17, 2013, Finjan filed a lawsuit against Proofpoint, Inc., and its subsidiary Armorize Technologies, Inc., alleging infringement of eight of Finjans patents. 29 Table of Contents Reverse Merger On June 3, 2013 we entered into the Merger Agreement with Merger Sub and Finjan and consummated the Reverse Merger. Upon the closing of the Reverse Merger, we issued 20,467,058 shares of our common stock (excluding any shares underlying the options to purchase up to an aggregate of 1,585,476 shares of our common stock issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement), or 91.5% of our issued and outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis after giving effect to the Reverse Merger, to the stockholders of Finjan immediately prior to the Reverse Merger (whom we sometimes refer to as the former Finjan stockholders). In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) section 805, Business Combinations, Finjan is considered the accounting acquirer in the Reverse Merger. Finjan is considered the acquirer for accounting purposes, and will account for the transaction as a reverse business combination, because Finjans former stockholders received the greater portion of the voting rights in the combined entity and Finjans senior management represents all of the senior management of the combined entity. Consequently, the assets and liabilities and the historical operations that will be reflected in our consolidated financial statements will be those of Finjan and will be recorded at the historical cost basis of Finjan. Exchange Agreement On June 3, 2013, as a condition to the closing of the Reverse Merger, we entered into an Exchange Agreement with each of Hudson Bay and Iroquois. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, immediately following the effectiveness of the Reverse Merger, each of Hudson Bay and Iroquois exchanged an aggregate of $1,192,500 principal amount of our convertible notes, 13,281 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 105,554 shares of our common stock for an aggregate of 1,789,469 shares of our common stock, or 8% of our outstanding common stock immediately following the Reverse Merger. Each of Hudson Bay and Iroquois also released us, our affiliates, subsidiaries and related companies from any and all debts, liabilities and other claims with respect to such convertible notes, Series A Preferred Stock and warrants. Following the effectiveness of the Exchange Agreement, there are no outstanding securities convertible into our common stock other than (i) options granted under the Amended and Restated Converted Organics 2006 Stock Option Plan, which we refer to as the 2006 Option Plan, the Converted Organics 2010 Omnibus Stock Compensation Plan, which we refer to as the 2010 Stock Compensation Plan, and the options issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement under our 2013 Option Plan, which are exercisable for an aggregate of 1,585,479 shares of our common stock, and (ii) our Class C, Class D and Class H warrants, which are exercisable for 1, 1 and 1 shares of our common stock, respectively, subject to further adjustment in accordance with the terms of the applicable warrant. The 2013 Option Plan was approved by the Companys board of directors in connection with the Reverse Merger and by the written consent in lieu of a meeting of the holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock. Closing Agreement On June 3, 2013, in connection with the Reverse Merger, we entered into a Closing Agreement, which we refer to as the Closing Agreement, with Hudson Bay, Iroquois and Michael Eisenberg, in his capacity as the stockholder representative of the former Finjan stockholders, who we refer to as the Stockholder Representative. Pursuant to the Closing Agreement, Hudson Bay and Iroquois severally but not jointly agreed to pay to the Company, or to third parties for the account of the Company, within five days following the effective time of the Reverse Merger an amount equal to certain known liabilities and obligations of the Company existing as of the effective time of the Reverse Merger. Such known liabilities, which were in the aggregate amount of $927,385, consisted of accounts payable due to various vendors of the Company, accrued but unpaid compensation expenses of the Company, liabilities related to the Companys discontinued Woodbridge, NJ operations and expenses incurred by the Company related to the Reverse Merger. In connection with such obligations, Hudson Bay and Iroquois paid $847,523 to, or for the account of, the Company in accordance with the Closing Agreement. In addition, Hudson Bay and Iroquois severally but not jointly agreed to pay the Stockholder Representative, for the benefit of the former Finjan stockholders, an amount equal to any and all payments made by the Company in respect of liabilities of the Company (on an unconsolidated basis) that were not known to Hudson Bay or Iroquois as of the effective time of the Reverse Merger, prior to the one-year anniversary of the effective time of the Reverse Merger in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000 in the aggregate. Hudson Bay and Iroquois obligations in respect of unknown liabilities are subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions related to the market price and trading volume of our common stock as well as the eligibility of Hudson Bay and Iroquois to sell their shares of Common Stock without any volume restrictions under Federal securities laws. Hudson Bay and Iroquois will not be required to make such payments in respect of unknown liabilities until reimbursable payments by us equal or exceed $100,000. The estimated fair value of the indemnification was deemed de minimus to the financial statements, pro-forma financial statements and related disclosures. 30 Table of Contents Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Risk Factors for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuation of income, expenses and cash flows related to licensing and enforcement Our settlements and judgments are non-recurring, and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until we actually receive the proceeds of licensing activities or litigation (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business (including those described above under the caption Risk Factors), our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. Public company expenses As a result of the Reverse Merger, Finjan became a subsidiary of a public company, and we have applied to list our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market, although no assurance can be granted that such application will be approved or that we will continue to satisfy the relevant quantitative listing criteria. Finjans operating results as a private company do not reflect certain expenses that we incur, and will continue to incur, as a public company. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase as we pay legal counsel and accountants to assist us in, among other things, establishing and maintaining more comprehensive compliance and governance functions, establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and preparing and distributing periodic public reports under the federal securities laws with respect to the business we operate through Finjan. We also expect to incur additional costs associated with compensation of non-employee directors and costs associated with the retention of full-time employees and consultants to operate our web and network security technology business and to comply with our obligations as a public company. In addition, we expect that as part of a public company the cost of director and officer liability insurance will increase compared to costs incurred by Finjan prior to the Reverse Merger. In light of these costs and the changes in our management, business and growth strategy that resulted from the Reverse Merger, the public company costs that we incurred prior to the Reverse Merger may not be indicative of the costs we will incur in the future. Stock-based and other executive compensation During the years ended December 31 2012 and 2011, Finjan did not grant any options, restricted stock or other equity-based compensation. Prior to the Reverse Merger, Finjan had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 77 shares of Finjan common stock, all of which were awarded in May 2013. Following the Reverse Merger, our board of directors adopted the 2013 Option Plan, and the 2010 Plan also remains in effect. In addition, although the 2010 Stock Compensation Plan replaced the 2006 Option Plan and no additional options will be issued under the 2006 Option Plan, the Company reserved the right to issue new options pursuant to the 2006 Option Plan to the extent that, and in the amount of, any outstanding options that are forfeited under that plan. We do not intend to issue additional options under either the 2010 Stock Compensation Plan or the 2006 Option Plan, and expect that future equity-based awards will be made under our 2013 Option Plan or other equity, incentive compensation or similar plans that the Company may adopt in the future, to our directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods. During the year ended December 31, 2013, Finjan granted to employees and consultants ten-year options to purchase an aggregate of 1,625,476 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $1.66 to $5.90 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2013, Finjan granted an aggregate of 22,368 shares of restricted stock in connection with the termination of certain severance agreements in connection with the closing of the Reverse Merger. 31 Table of Contents In addition, Finjan had no full-time employees or full-time consultants during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 and its sole executive officer served in such capacity without compensation during such years. In April 2013, Finjan engaged Philip Hartstein and Shimon Steinmetz as its President and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, pursuant to consulting agreements. Messrs. Hartstein and Steinmetz were appointed President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company on July 8, 2013. During the first quarter of 2014, we also hired a Vice President, Intellectual Property (IP) Licensing, a Vice President, Legal Operations and a Vice President, Corporate Counsel and we intend to hire additional employees and/or consultants in the future to expand our business. Since the Reverse Merger, we have hired a total of five employees. Accordingly, we will incur compensation expenses in future periods that Finjan did not incur during the period presented in its financial statements. For additional information regarding the Consulting Agreements between Finjan and each of its President and Chief Financial Officer please see Executive CompensationEmployment Agreements below. Finjan Reorganization Until May 2, 2013, Finjan was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finjan Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation, which we refer to as FSI. In April 2013, Finjan distributed securities of two unaffiliated entities which it previously held to FSI, and made a payment of cash in an amount sufficient to repay and satisfy in full an intercompany loan from FSI to Finjan. Following that distribution, the board of directors and stockholders of FSI approved the dissolution of, and a plan of liquidation for, FSI that resulted in, among other things, the distribution of Finjan common stock to certain of FSIs stockholders, each of whom received shares of our common stock in the Reverse Merger. Recent Financing Activities Prior to the Reverse Merger Prior to the Reverse Merger, Converted Organics, Inc.s operations were financed primarily by the issuance of debt, equity and equity-linked securities. In connection with the Reverse Merger, we redeemed, cancelled or otherwise retired all of the notes and derivative securities previously issued by Converted Organics, Inc., other than warrants that are exercisable for a de minimis number of shares of our common stock. See Significant Developments During 2013 Exchange Agreement above. Although we may require financing in the future, we expect that our cash on hand will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for at least the next twelve months, although we may seek additional financing in connection with our growth strategy. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company issued 89,438 shares of its common stock to reduce principal of $3,975,978 on its convertible debt. During the three month period ended March 31, 2013, the company issued short term notes in the aggregate amount of $374,000, which were extinguished pursuant to the Exchange Agreement. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2013 compared with the year ended December 31, 2012 Our revenue and cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $0.74 and $0.76 million, respectively, which was attributable to our organic fertilizer business. Our operating expenses consist primarily of legal fees, general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation, consulting and other professional fees, and transaction costs associated with the Reverse Merger. During the year ended December 31, 2013, total operating expenses increased by approximately $4.7 million, or 171%, to $7.5 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. The increased costs were primarily due to $2.6 million incurred in relation to current litigation, approximately $0.8 million related to the one time merger transaction costs, $0.8 million corporate legal expenses, $0.2 million accounting and consulting fees and $0.1 million in stock registration fees and various other costs related to being a public company. The Company also hired new employees including the President and CFO and others in 2013 resulting in increased salaries and benefits of approximately $0.6 million. Our gain on settlements, net of legal costs decreased by approximately $76.4 million, or 99%, to $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. The decrease was primarily due to our entry into settlements with two of the parties in the 2010 Litigation, pursuant to which we received net proceeds of approximately $76.5 million (gross proceeds of $85.0 million less contingent legal fees of $8.5 million) from one of the defendants during 2012 and $1.0 million in cash proceeds (representing the first of three equal installment payments payable over 18 months from the date of settlement) and securities with a fair value as of the settlement date of approximately $8.4 million from the second defendant during 2012, partially offset by the receipt of the second installment with respect to a litigation settlement payment of $1.0 million during 2013 associated with a licensing agreement. The remaining amounts due under the litigation settlement will be recognized when payment is received, as collectability is not reasonably assured. Our other income decreased by approximately $3.1 million, or 100%, to less than $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. The decrease was due to securities received in exchange for modifying a perpetual license agreement originally entered into on November 2, 2009 with a fair value of approximately $3.1 million during 2012. 32 Table of Contents Our interest income decreased by less than $0.1 million, or 7%, to approximately $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. Interest income decreased due to the lower average cash balance on hand during the 2013 periods compared to the same periods of 2012. The significant fluctuation in our income for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to our income for the 2012 fiscal year reflects the fact that our settlements are non-recurring and, as a result, income for these periods is not necessarily indicative of the income we will achieve in the future. Our income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2013 decreased $27.1 million, or 103%, to a tax benefit of $0.3 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012, due to limited cumulative taxable operations of the Company in certain local jurisdictions compared to the same period in 2012. Year ended December 31, 2012 compared with the year ended December 31, 2011 Our general and administrative expenses consist mainly of legal, consulting and other professional fees. Our general and administrative expenses increased approximately $0.9 million, or 52%, to $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase in general and administrative expenses is primarily due to a an approximate $0.2 million increase in legal fees and other expenses related to litigation (other than contingency fees paid in connection with settlements), as well as a $0.7 million increase in consulting and other fees and expenses consisting primarily of fees and expenses related to our evaluation of strategic alternatives that culminated in the Reverse Merger. Our gain on settlements, net of legal costs increased by approximately $52.4 million, or 211%, to approximately $77.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase was primarily due to settlement agreements with two of the parties in the 2010 Litigation, pursuant to which we received net proceeds of approximately $76.5 million (gross proceeds of $85.0 million less contingent legal fees of $8.5 million) from one of the defendants and $1.0 million in cash proceeds (representing the first of three equal installment payments payable over 18 months from the date of settlement) and securities with a fair value as of the settlement date of approximately $8.4 million from the second defendant during the year ended December 31, 2012. Our gain on settlements, net of legal costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 was attributable to receipt of approximately $24.9 million in net proceeds (proceeds of $37.3 million (including interest income of $3.1 million) less contingent legal fees of $9.3 million) from the judgment we obtained in the Secure Computing Litigation. During the year ended December 31, 2011 we sold certain patent assets to a third party for net proceeds of approximately $1.3 million. The net proceeds was accounted for as a gain on sale of patents, net of legal costs. We did not sell any patents in fiscal 2012 and do not presently intend to sell the patents in our current portfolio. Other income increased by $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 due to securities received in exchange for modifying a perpetual license agreement originally entered into on November 2, 2009 with a fair value of approximately $3.1 million. Our interest income decreased approximately $3.0 million, or 95%, to $0.16 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily resulting from the approximate $3.1 million of interest income we received as component from the judgment we obtained in the Secure Computing Litigation. The significant fluctuation in our income before taxes for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to our income for the 2011 fiscal year reflects the fact that our settlements and judgments are non-recurring and, as a result, income for these periods is not necessarily indicative of the income we will achieve in the future. Our income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased $23.5 million, or 692%, to $26.9 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Such increase was primarily due to an increase in gain on settlement, partially offset by the increase in our general and administrative expenses described above. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expect to continue to devote significant capital resources to our licensing and enforcement program and resulting litigation we pursue. We also expect to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy and to attract and retain qualified personnel on a full time basis. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally proceeds from settlements and judgments in connection with our patent enforcement activities. Based on our 33 Table of Contents current forecasts and assumptions, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated, including those set forth under Risk Factors, above. Even without such difficulties, we may seek to raise additional capital to grow our business. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption since late 2007, and the volatility and impact of the disruption has continued into 2014. At times during this period, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In several cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers, and there can be no assurance that we will have access to short-term financing. If we fail to obtain additional funding when needed, we may not be able to execute our business plans and our business may suffer. We had approximately $24.6 million and $91.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and $23.9 million and $29.6 million of working capital as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, our current liabilities included approximately $33.9 million due to FSI, Finjans then-parent company, which was repaid in full in February 2013 in anticipation of Finjans reorganization. Cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2013 Operating Activities : Finjans net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $100.3 million, or 149%, to $32.8 million of cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. Such decrease is primarily attributable to Finjans receipt of approximately $77.5 million of cash proceeds as a result of a settlement net of contingency fees and an installment payment related to the settlement agreement entered into by the Company entered into during 2012 partially offset by $2.8 million of legal costs and general and administrative expenses respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we used cash of approximately $25.3 million related to the payment of income taxes. The significant fluctuation in our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to our cash flows from operating activities for the 2012 fiscal year reflects the fact that our settlements are non-recurring and, as a result, cash flows from operating activities for these periods are not necessarily indicative of the income we will achieve in the future. Investing activities: During the year ended December 31, 2013, our investing activities used approximately $0.03 million, as compared to $1.3 million of cash used by investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2012. Cash provided by investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily related to the $0.52 million of proceeds from notes receivable acquired through the Reverse Merger, which was offset by an investment of $0.5 million in an Israeli limited liability partnership. Cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2012 related to our purchase of M86 securities. (which were distributed to FSI during 2013, prior to the Reverse Merger) Financing activities: During the year ended December 31, 2013, we used approximately $34.1 million in financing activities, as compared to $2.5 million used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2012. The increase in cash used in financing activities is primarily attributable to the repayment of $33.9 million of intercompany indebtedness due to FSI during the year ended December 31, 2013. Cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2012 Operating Activities : Our net cash provided by operating activities increased by $40.9 million, or 154%, to $67.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011. Such increase is primarily attributable to our receipt of approximately $77.5 million of cash proceeds as a result of a settlement and a part installment of the settlement agreement entered into by the Company in 2012, partially offset by $2.8 million of legal costs and general and administrative expenses respectively. We used a portion of the net proceeds received to finance post-trial proceedings and continue to use a portion of such proceeds in connection with our pending appeals with respect to the 2010 Litigation. We also expect to use such proceeds to finance any future licensing and enforcement activities and any future acquisitions, as well as for working capital and general corporate purposes. The significant fluctuation in our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to our cash flows from operating activities for the 2011 fiscal year reflects the fact that our settlements are non-recurring and, as a result, cash flows from operating activities for these periods are not necessarily indicative of the income we will achieve in the future. Investing activities: During the year ended December 31, 2012, Finjan used approximately $1.3 million in investing activities, as compared to $1.3 million in cash proceeds provided by the sale of patent, net of commissions, during the year ended December 31, 2011. Cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2012 related primarily to our purchase of M86 securities. 34 Table of Contents Financing activities: During the year ended December 31, 2012, Finjan used approximately $2.5 million in financing activities, as compared to $0.2 million in cash used in financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase in cash used in financing activities is attributable to the repayment of $2.5 million of intercompany indebtedness due to FSI during the year ended December 31, 2012. 35 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, warranties and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and our revenue recognition. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and the impact of such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Critical accounting policies are those policies that, in managements view, are most important in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our financial statements. These critical accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Those critical accounting policies and estimates that require the most significant judgment are discussed further below. We consider our most critical accounting policies and estimates to be: revenue recognition, gain on settlements, valuation of long lived assets, stock based compensation, accounting for business combinations-acquisition method accounting. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery of the product or service has occurred and all obligations have been performed pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Depending on the complexity of the underlying revenue arrangement and related terms and conditions, significant judgments, assumptions and estimates may be required to determine when substantial delivery of contract elements has occurred, whether any significant ongoing obligations exist subsequent to contract execution, whether amounts due are collectible and the appropriate period or periods in which, or during which, the completion of the earnings process occurs. Depending on the magnitude of specific revenue arrangements, if different judgments, assumptions and estimates are made regarding contracts executed in any specific period, our periodic financial results may be materially affected. Income from our Web and Network Security segment results from the monetization of patented technologies by licensing through a negotiated agreement and/or enforcement of such patented technologies by a court of law. Licenses achieved by ordinary business negotiations where a fair value of the license is determined by the Company is recognized as revenue. Due to our unique business, it is often necessary to file patent infringement litigation against users of our patented technologies as part of the licensing and enforcement activities. We may enter into certain settlements of patent infringement disputes once litigation commences. The amount of consideration received upon any settlement or judgment is allocated to each element of the settlement based on the fair value of each element using the residual method. Elements with fair values related to licensing agreement, royalty revenues, net of contingent legal fees, are recognized as revenue. When the Company is unable to determine the fair value of a license agreement or a settlement, the value of the license agreement or settlement is recognized as contra expense or gain on settlements in other income. Revenue from our Organic Fertilizer segment results from two sources, product sales and tip fees. Product sales revenue comes from the sale of fertilizer products and is recognized upon delivery. Tip fee revenue is derived from waste haulers who pay us tip fees for accepting food waste generated by food distributors such as grocery stores, produce docks and fish markets, food processors and hospitality venues such as hotels, restaurants, convention centers and airports. Tip fee revenue is recognized straight line over the period the fees are earned. Gain on Settlements Elements that are not related to license agreements and royalty revenue in nature will be reflected as a separate line item within the other income section of the consolidated statements of operations as gain on settlement. Elements provided in either settlement agreements or judgment include: the value of a license, legal release, and interest. When settlements or judgment are achieved at discounts to the fair value of a license, the Company allocates the full settlement or judgment, excluding specifically named element as mentioned above, to the value of the license under the residual accounting method. Legal release as part of a settlement agreement is recognized as a separate line item in the consolidated statement of operations when value can be allocated to legal release. Ordinarily, when the Company reaches a settlement with a defendant, no value is allocated to legal release since the existence of a settlement removes legal standing to bring a claim of infringement and without legal a legal claim, legal release has no economic value. The element that is applicable to interest income is recorded as a separate line item in other income. 36 Table of Contents We make estimates and judgments when determining whether the collectability of fees receivable from licensees is reasonably assured. We assess the collectability of fees receivable based on a number of factors, including past transaction history and the credit-worthiness of licensees. If it is determined that collection is not reasonably assured, the fee is recognized when collectability becomes reasonably assured, assuming all other income recognition criteria have been met, which is generally upon receipt of cash for transactions where collectability may have been an issue. Managements estimates regarding collectability impact the actual income recognized each period and the timing of the recognition of income. Our assumptions and judgments regarding future collectability could differ from actual events and thus materially impact our financial position and results of operations. In general, our income arrangements provide for the payment of contractually determined fees in consideration for the grant of certain intellectual property rights for patented technologies owned or controlled by us. These rights typically include some combination of the following: (i) the grant of a non-exclusive, retroactive and future license to manufacture and/or sell products covered by patented technologies owned or controlled by our operating subsidiaries, (ii) a covenant-not-to-sue, (iii) the release of the licensee from certain claims, and (iv) the dismissal of any pending litigation. The intellectual property rights granted may be perpetual in nature, extending until the expiration of the related patents, or can be granted for a defined, relatively short period of time, with the licensee possessing the right to renew the agreement at the end of each contractual term for an additional minimum upfront payment. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, we have no further obligation with respect to the grant of the non-exclusive retroactive and future licenses, covenants-not-to-sue, releases, and other deliverables, including no express or implied obligation on our part to maintain or upgrade the technology, or provide future support or services. As such, the earnings process is complete and income is recognized upon the execution of the agreement, when collectability is reasonably assured and when all other income recognition criteria have been met. Income from licenses issued through negotiated agreement with the licensee is recognized when the arrangement with the licensee has been signed and the license has been delivered and made effective, provided license fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Income from settlements reached on legal enforcement of our patent rights and the release of the licensee from certain legal claims, is recognized on receipt of the settlement amounts. Stock-based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation payments to employees, non-employee consultants and directors are recognized as expense in the statements of income. The compensation cost for all stock-based awards is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award (determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model for stock options and intrinsic value on the date of grant for non-vested restricted stock), and is recognized as an expense over the employees requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the equity award). Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires significant estimates and judgments, including estimating the market price volatility of our common stock, future employee stock option exercise behavior and requisite service periods. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded only for those awards expected to vest using an estimated pre-vesting forfeiture rate. As such, we are required to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures at the time of grant and reflect the impact of estimated pre-vesting option forfeitures on compensation expense recognized. Estimates of pre-vesting forfeitures must be periodically revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We consider several factors in connection with our estimate of pre-vesting forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical pre-vesting forfeiture data. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results differ from our estimates, such amounts will be recorded as cumulative adjustments in the period the estimates are revised. The Company granted options to a small number of employees and consultants. Given the executive level of the grantees, the Company does not expect any of the awards granted to have forfeiture due to employee termination. Therefore, there is no forfeiture rate used in calculating stock-compensation expense. The Company will continue to monitor its expectations on an ongoing basis and revise this assumption as future circumstances dictate. If actual results differ significantly from these assumption, stock-based compensation expense and our results of operations could be materially impacted. Valuation of Long-lived and Intangible Assets We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important, which could trigger an impairment review, include the following: significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; 37 Table of Contents significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; significant negative industry or economic trends; significant adverse changes in legal factors or in the business climate, including adverse regulatory actions or assessments; and significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period. If a potential impairment exists, a calculation is performed to determine the fair value of the long-lived asset. This calculation is based on a valuation model, which considers the estimated future undiscounted cash flows resulting from the use of the asset, and a discount rate commensurate with the risks involved. Third party appraised values may also be used in determining whether impairment potentially exists. The estimated fair value is compared to the long-lived assets carrying value to determine whether impairment exists. As described above, in assessing the recoverability of intangible assets, significant judgment is required in connection with estimates of market values, estimates of the amount and timing of future cash flows, and estimates of other factors that are used to determine the fair value of the respective assets. If these estimates or related projections change in future periods, future intangible asset impairment tests may result in charges to earnings. Accounting for Business Combinations - Acquisition Method of Accounting Acquisitions are accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method of accounting under Financial Accounting Standards Board, FASB, ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, Topic 805. Topic 805 requires, among other things, that identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the purchase consideration is allocated to the assets acquired, including tangible assets, patents and other identifiable intangible assets and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair market values on the date of acquisition. Any excess purchase price after the initial allocation to identifiable net tangible and identifiable intangible assets is assigned to goodwill. Amounts attributable to patents are amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated economic useful life of the underlying patents. The carrying value of our patents was $0 as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. Nonetheless, we believe our technology remains current and we continue to seek licensing opportunities and are actively engaged in enforcement actions to further monetize our patent portfolio. Acquisition accounting includes the establishment of a net deferred tax asset or liability resulting from book tax basis differences related to assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the date of acquisition. We assess fair value for financial statement purposes using a variety of methods, including the use of present value models and may also reference independent analyses. Amounts recorded as intangible assets, including patents and patent rights, are based on assumptions and estimates, as of the date of acquisition, regarding the amount and timing of projected income and costs associated with the licensing and enforcement of patents and patent rights acquired, appropriate risk-adjusted discount rates, rates of technology adoption, market penetration, technological obsolescence, product launch timing, the impact of competition or lack of competition in the market place, tax implications and other factors. Also, upon acquisition, based on several of the estimates and assumptions previously described, we determine the estimated economic useful lives of the acquired intangible assets for amortization purposes. Management is responsible for determining the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date, solely for purposes of allocating the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Fair value measurements can be highly subjective, and it is possible that other professionals for other purposes, applying reasonable judgment and criteria to the same facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts. Actual results may vary from projected results. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In July 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2013-11, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists (ASU 2013-11). ASU 2013-11 clarifies guidance and eliminates diversity in practice on the presentation of unrecognized tax benefits when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists at the reporting date. This new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. ASU 2013-11 is not applicable to the Company since we do not have an uncertain tax positions for the current and prior years. 38 Table of Contents