Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated interim financial statements and related notes to the consolidated interim financial statements included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that relate to future events or our future financial performance. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our current expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks including the Risk Factors identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Converted Organics Inc. is sometimes referred to herein as we, us, our and the Company. Introduction Converted Organics Inc. (the Company or COIN) has three lines of business, (1) organic fertilizer, (2) vertical farming and (3) industrial wastewater treatment. Based on the nature of products and services offered, the Company has determined that all three lines of business are reportable segments at March 31, 2011. The Company evaluates performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment operating income. There were no intersegment sales for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The discreet financial information presented below is for the three month period ended March 31, 2011. Organic Vertical Industrial Corporate and Fertilizer Farming Wastewater Eliminations Consolidated Revenues $ 644,000 $ $ 95,176 $ $ 739,176 Operating loss (1) (82,001 ) (599,441 ) (2,823 ) (1,635,338 ) (2,319,603 ) Depreciation and amortization(2) 105,089 161,297 5,556 149,109 421,051 Interest expense(3) 6,642 2,267,820 2,274,462 Net loss (82,001 ) (381,080 ) (2,823 ) (1,334,568 ) (1,800,472 ) Total assets (4) 3,744,506 12,354,315 2,108,468 991,607 19,198,896 Goodwill 1,667,957 1,667,957 Property and equipment additions 123,564 2,255 1,600,000 1,725,819 (1) Operating loss of the principal businesses exclude corporate compensation, marketing expense, professional fees and other unallocated expenses. (2) Depreciation and amortization expense associated with property and equipment, intangibles and deferred financing fees. Corporate amortization expense relates to intangible asset technological know-how. (3) Corporate interest expense is primarily related to amortization of discounts on convertible notes payable. 20 Table of Contents (4) Total business assets are the owned or allocated assets used by each business. Corporate assets consist of cash, prepaid expenses, certain other assets, and deferred financing costs. Revenues are attributable to geographic areas based on the locations of the customers, which are primarily within the continental United States. The fertilizer segment derived approximately $370,000 or 50% of its revenues from four customers and the industrial wastewater segment derived 100% of its revenue from one customer for the three months ended March 31, 2011. As of March 31, 2010, the Company was a single reportable segment. Our operating structure is composed of our parent company, Converted Organics Inc. and the subsidiaries listed below. Cash flow at the corporate level includes management and public company expenses, revenues and expenses associated with the Industrial Wastewater Resources (IWR) segment, and the revenues and costs of producing and selling the outsourced dry product fertilizer product. It is the intention of management to transfer the operations of IWR and the dry fertilizer product to a subsidiary level when business volumes become appropriate. The current subsidiaries of COIN are as follows: Converted Organics of California, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of COIN, which includes the operation of our Gonzales, California facility. Converted Organics of Woodbridge, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of COIN, which includes the discontinued operation of our Woodbridge, New Jersey facility. Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of COIN, established for the purpose of adding a poultry litter-based fertilizer product to the Companys existing product lines. Converted Organics of Rhode Island, LLC, a 92.5% owned subsidiary of COIN , which currently has no operating activity and which was originally established to include the operation of a previously planned fertilizer facility in Rhode Island. On February 25, 2010, we signed a letter of intent with the non-controlling member in Converted Organics of RI to sell substantially all of the assets and assign a limited select amount of liabilities of Converted Organics of RI. This entity is currently inactive. TerraSphere Inc. (TerraSphere Inc), a Delaware C corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of COIN, was established to hold COINs investment in TerraSphere Systems LLC (Systems LLC) in which COIN acquired a 95% interest on November 12, 2010. Systems LLC owns 85% of TerraSphere Canada, LLC and 100% of Pharmasphere LLC, which in turn owns 100% of PharmaSphere Worcester, LLC. COINs acquisition of its interest in Systems LLC was approved by our shareholders at a special meeting held on September 16, 2010. GoLocalProduceRI, LLC, a 83.34% owned subsidiary of COIN, which we acquired on December 30, 2010 for the purpose of building and operating a TerraSphere facility. Organic Fertilizer Business We operate a processing facility (Gonzales, CA) that uses food and agricultural waste as raw materials to manufacture all-natural fertilizer and soil amendment products combining nutritional and disease suppression characteristics for sale to our agribusiness market. During the first quarter of 2011 we also contracted with a third party manufacturer and packager to produce an 8-1-4 dry fertilizer product. This product was manufactured for the purpose of continuing to supply our established retail and turf management customers that were previously serviced by our Woodbridge, NJ facility, which closed in 2010. 21 Table of Contents Converted Organics of California, LLC Gonzales Facility The Gonzales facility is our production facility that services a strong West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. This facility uses our proprietary technology and process known as High Temperature Liquid Composting, or HTLC , which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and food waste-based fertilizer and a limited amount of solids that could be further processed into a useable form for use in agriculture, retail, and professional turf markets. The Gonzales facility began to generate positive cash flow in June 2009 and has continued to do so through March 2011. For the three month period ended March 31, 2011, the Gonzales facility generated revenues of $564,000 and had a positive gross margin of $184,000, or 33% (based on no allocation of corporate overhead). We plan to continue to improve this operating margin by maximizing the production capacity at the facility, as discussed below, by generating tip fees from receiving additional quantities of solid food waste for processing and by reducing the amount of raw material and freight costs currently associated with the production process. We estimate that the plant, in its current configuration and based on current market prices, has the capacity to generate monthly sales in the range of $350,000 to $400,000. In addition, we have plans to triple production capacity of the Gonzales plant and further modify it to enable production of both liquid and solid fertilizers. We have completed certain aspects of the planned upgrades which allow us to receive solid food waste for processing, but have delayed the upgrades which would allow us to produce dry product due to a lack of market demand for a dry product within the area the Gonzales facility serves. As we will have to obtain the proper building permits for continued expansion, further development of the Gonzales facility will be delayed until additional market research has been completed and those permits are obtained. If sales increase above the current per month level, we expect the additional cash flow from the Gonzales facility will be used to offset operating expenses at the corporate level. In addition to sales of fertilizer product from our Gonzales facility, we sold approximately $80,000 of dry fertilizer product for the three month period ended March 31, 2011. We produced this dry 8-1-4 product using a third party manufacturer in order to supply product to our major retail customer and landscaping customers. Through March 31, 2011 we have produced enough of this fertilizer to supply a further $130,000 of orders, which will ship during the second quarter or 2011. Industrial Wastewater Treatment Business In March 2010, we began to operate an Industrial Wastewater Resources (IWR) division of the Company to leverage our exclusive license of the LM-HT Concentrator technology for the treatment of industrial wastewater (IW). Due to its unique, energy efficient design, the LM-HT Concentrator provides a highly cost-effective alternative to traditional IW treatment technology. Once the LM-HT Concentrators are installed, we plan to apply for carbon credits and government grants based on the technologys ability to reduce carbon emissions and energy consumption through its use of waste heat and renewable energy as thermal fuel. On March 23, 2010, we entered into a loan and license agreement with Heartland Technology Partners, LLC (HTP). The loan agreement required us to advance $500,000 to HTP in three monthly installments that commenced upon signing of the loan. The outstanding principal balance of the loan is due if either a change of control of HTP or the completion by HTP of a financing in excess of $10 million occurs on or before June 30, 2012. In consideration for entering into the loan agreement, we were granted an exclusive, irrevocable license to utilize HTPs patented LM-HT Concentrator technology in the U.S. industrial wastewater market. The IW market involves the treatment of waters that have been contaminated by anthropogenic industrial or commercial activities, prior to their reuse or release into the environment. The LM-HT Concentrator reduces carbon emissions compared to traditional technologies by using waste heat and renewable energy as thermal fuel. We have hired a senior executive in the wastewater processing industry and have begun to develop plans to operate our Industrial Wastewater Resources division. On July 30, 2010, we signed a letter of intent with Spirit Services, Inc. to jointly develop an energy and IW treatment facility using our exclusively licensed technology to evaporate IW at a facility in South Boston, Virginia. In addition we have entered into discussions with various parties to establish relationships to jointly develop IW treatment facilities at certain established waste treatment facilities in the United States. Such relationships are in the development stage and we expect to build upon them, as well as secure new partnerships in 2011. 22 Table of Contents IWR currently operates an industrial wastewater concentrator on Glenwood Springs Landfill Enterprises South Canyon Landfill in Glenwood Springs, CO as a result of an agreement signed on January 11, 2011. This facility is designed to treat 15,000 gallons of aqueous waste per day and is fueled by the combustion of biomass diverted from disposal in the landfill. Among the IWs to be treated by the plant are septic, wash waters, process waters, man-camp wastewaters, and wastewaters from oil and gas exploration activities. Under this agreement we are paid a per gallon fee for the amount of IW that we treat, less labor costs to operate the unit and a marketing fee to generate IW delivered to the facility. In addition, we own the evaporator unit and are responsible for repairing and maintaining it. As of January 2011 we began to generate revenue under this agreement from South Canyon Landfills traditional method of wastewater treatment as we waited for conditional air permits. Such permits were received in March 2011, at which time we paid $600,000 of the $1.6 million purchase price of the evaporator and the unit commenced operations. For the three months ended March 31, 2011 we recorded revenues of approximately $95,000 and gross margin of approximately $69,000 or 72% from treatment of industrial waste water at this facility. Our plan to increase business and revenues for IWR is to seek out municipal and industrial locations to locate our owned evaporator units and to charge a per gallon fee to treat industrial wastewater. We plan to follow the current agreement model where we would pay for labor, repairs and marketing (if required) at the location. We will have to seek specific project financing for each evaporator unit. Presently, we are in discussion with four potential owners of locations where an evaporator unit could be located. We expect that in 2011, if we are able to secure project financing, we will be able to begin operations on a second evaporator unit, in addition to the one being operated at the Glenwood Springs Landfill. Vertical Farming Business On May 20, 2010, we formed TerraSphere Inc., a Delaware C corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, for the purpose of acquiring the membership interests of TerraSphere Systems LLC (Systems LLC). On July 6, 2010, a membership interest purchase agreement was entered into by the Company, TerraSphere Inc., Systems LLC, and the members of Systems LLC, pursuant to which we agreed to acquire the membership interests of Systems LLC. The maximum total shares that could be issued for Systems LLC is estimated to be 34,166,667 shares of our common stock, which includes earn-out share payments of up to 14,603,175 shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the purchase agreement, the acquisition was approved by our shareholders on September 16, 2010, and the Company acquired 95% of the membership interest of Systems LLC on November 12, 2010. We agreed to issue up to 32,777,778 shares of our common stock to the members of Systems LLC in exchange for 95% of the units of Systems LLC, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. Of these shares, 18,174,603 shares were issued on November 12, 2010, the closing of the acquisition, and the remainder of the shares will be issued if TerraSphere achieves four milestones. As of the filing date of this report, only one of the four milestones, TerraSpheres collection of $2.0 million of its accounts receivable by February 28, 2011, was subject to measurement. This milestone was not met, and as a result we will not issue the 1,825,397 shares of our common stock associated with that milestone. Two of three remaining milestones (market capitalization and gross margin), are to be measured as of December 31, 2011, and the final milestone (gross margin) is to be measured at December 31, 2012. On December 30, 2010 we also acquired an 83.34% ownership in GoLocalProduceRI, LLC (an independent TerraSphere licensee) for the purpose of building and owning a TerraSphere facility. Systems LLC is in the business of designing, building, and operating highly efficient and scalable systems, featuring a patented, proprietary technology that utilizes vertically-stacked modules to house rows of plants, which are then placed perpendicular to an interior light source to grow pesticide and chemical-free organic fruits and vegetables. Due to a controlled, indoor environment, the system generates fresh produce year-round in any location or climate world-wide. The following pro forma condensed statement of operations information is presented to illustrate the effects upon the quarter ended March 31, 2010 had the acquisitions of TerraSphere and GoLocalProduceRI been completed on January 1, 2010. The pro forma presentation is based upon available information and certain assumptions that we believe are reasonable. The unaudited supplemental pro forma information does not purport to represent what the Companys results of operations would actually have been had these transactions in fact occurred as of the dates indicated above or to project the Companys results of operations for the period indicated or for any other period. 23 Table of Contents For the Quarter Ended March 31, 2010 Revenue $ 2,544,009 Net loss $ (6,000,008 ) Net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (0.11 ) Weighted average common shares outstanding 56,389,068 Recent Financing Activities December 17, 2010 and March 7, 2011 Notes and Warrants On December 17, 2010, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the Agreement) with certain institutional investors whereby we agreed to sell to the investors convertible notes in the aggregate original principal amount of $4,990,000 (the Notes), which are convertible into shares of our common stock. The Notes were issued with an original issue discount of approximately 4.8%, and the purchase price of the Notes was $4,750,000. The Notes are not interest bearing, unless we are in default on the Notes, in which case the Notes carry an interest rate of 18% per annum. On December 17, 2010 we sold to the Buyer $3,940,000 of the Notes and on March 7, 2011 we sold the investors the remaining $1,050,000 of the notes. We were required to repay the Notes in six equal installments commencing February 1, 2011, with respect to $3.94 million of the Notes, and April 8, 2011, with respect to $1.05 million of the Notes, either in cash or in shares of our common stock. If we choose to utilize shares of our common stock for the payment, the value of our shares will be equal to the lower of (i) the conversion price then in effect or (ii) 85% of the average of the three lowest closing sale prices of our common stock during the 20 trading day period prior to payment of the installment amount. We also have the right, at our option, to permit the holder of the Notes to convert at a lower price specified by us for a period specified by us. In addition, we also issued to the investors warrants to acquire shares of common stock, in the form of three warrants: (i) Series A Warrants, (ii) Series B Warrants, and (iii) Series C Warrants (collectively, the Warrants). The Series B Warrants became exercisable on February 28, 2011, the date upon which shareholder approval was obtained in connection with the financing, and expire on November 28, 2011. The Series B Warrants provided that the holders were initially entitled to purchase an aggregate of 4,990,000 shares at an initial exercise price of $1.00 per share. The Series B Warrants were also subject to certain protections against certain dilutive issuances (with limited exceptions), and the exercise price of the Series B Warrants was subject to adjustment to the average of the conversion prices used to repay the Notes discussed above. The floor price for the exercise price of the Series B Warrants is $0.34 and the number of shares underlying the Series B Warrants adjusts whenever the exercise price adjusts, such that at all times the aggregate exercise price of the Series B Warrants will be $4,990,000. As of the date hereof, the exercise price of the Series B Warrants is $0.345 per share and there are 14,463,768 shares underlying the Series B Warrants. The Series A and Series C Warrants became exercisable on February 28, 2011, the date upon which shareholder approval was obtained in connection with the financing, and have a five year term. Should we make certain dilutive issuances (with limited exceptions), the exercise price of the Series A and Series C Warrants will be lowered to the per share price for the dilutive issuances. In addition, the exercise price of the Series A and Series C Warrants will adjust to the average of the conversion prices used to repay the Notes as discussed above. As of the date hereof, the exercise price of the Series A Warrants and Series C Warrants is $0.312 per share. 24 Table of Contents April 1, 2011 Notes and Warrants On April 1, 2011, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with an institutional investor whereby we agreed to sell to the investor a convertible note in the aggregate original principal amount of $3,850,000 (the Note), which is convertible into shares of our common stock. The Note was issued with an original issue discount of approximately 9.1%, and the proceeds from the Note was $3,500,000. The Note is not interest bearing, unless we are in default on the Note, in which case the Note carries an interest rate of 18% per annum. The Note is initially convertible into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $0.40 per share, provided that if we make certain dilutive issuances (with limited exceptions), the conversion price of the Note will be lowered to the per share price for the dilutive issuances. We are required to repay the Note in five equal installments commencing July 31, 2011, either in cash or in shares of our common stock. If we choose to utilize shares of our common stock for the payment, we must make an irrevocable decision to use those shares 23 trading days prior to the installment payment date, and the value of our shares will be equal to 85% of the average of the three lowest closing sale prices of our common stock during the 20 trading day period prior to payment of the installment amount (the Installment Conversion Price). If we choose to make an installment payment in shares of common stock, we must make a pre-installment payment of shares (the Pre-Installment Shares) to the Note holder 20 trading days prior to the applicable installment date based on the value of our shares equal to 85% of the average of the three lowest closing sale prices of our common stock during the 20 trading day period prior to payment of the installment amount. On the installment date, to the extent we owe the Note holder additional shares in excess of the Pre-Installment Shares to satisfy the installment payment, we will issue the Note holder additional shares, and to the extent we have issued excess shares, such shares will be applied to future payments. If an event of default occurs under the Note, we must redeem the Note in cash at the greater of 135% of the unconverted principal amount or 135% of the greatest equity value of the shares of common stock underlying the Note from the date of the default until the redemption is completed. The conversion price of the Note is subject to adjustment in the case of stock splits, stock dividends, combinations of shares and similar recapitalization transactions. The convertibility of the Note may be limited if, upon exercise, the holder or any of its affiliates would beneficially own more than 4.9% of our common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we also agreed to issue to the Buyer warrants to acquire shares of common stock, in the form of three warrants: (i) Series A Warrants, (ii) Series B Warrants and (iii) Series C Warrants (collectively, the Warrants). The Series B Warrants are exercisable six months and one day after issuance and expire nine months after the date we obtain shareholder approval to issue in excess of 20% of our common stock for the April financing and to permit us to adjust the exercise price of the Series A and Series C Warrants. The Series B Warrants provide that the holders are initially entitled to purchase an aggregate of 9,143,750 shares at an initial exercise price of $0.4125 per share. If we make certain dilutive issuances (with limited exceptions), the exercise price of the Series B Warrants will be lowered to the per share price for the dilutive issuances. In addition, the exercise price of the Series B Warrants will adjust to the average of the Installment Conversion Prices used to repay the Note (see above for a discussion of the Note installment payments). The floor price for the exercise price of the Series B Warrants is $0.34. The number of shares underlying the Series B Warrants will adjust whenever the exercise price adjusts, such that at all times the aggregate exercise price of the Series B Warrants will be $3,771,797. To the extent we enter into a fundamental transaction (as defined in the Series B Warrants and which include, without limitation, our entering into a merger or consolidation with another entity, our selling all or substantially all of our assets, or a person acquiring 50% of our common stock), we have agreed to purchase the Series B Warrants from the holders at their Black-Scholes value. If our common stock trades at a price at least 200% above the Series B Warrants exercise price for a period of 10 trading days at any time after we obtain shareholder approval (as discussed above), we may force the exercise of the Series B Warrants if we meet certain conditions. 25 Table of Contents The Series A and Series C Warrants are exercisable six months and one day after issuance and have a five year term commencing on the initial exercise date. The Series A Warrants provide that the holders are initially entitled to purchase an aggregate of 4,812,500 shares at an initial exercise price of $0.40 per share. The Series C Warrants provide that the holders are initially entitled to purchase an aggregate of 4,343,285 shares at an initial exercise price of $0.425 per share. If on the expiration date of the Series B Warrants, a holder of such warrant has not exercised such warrant for at least 50% of the shares underlying such warrant, we have the right to redeem from such holder its Series C Warrant for $1,000 under certain circumstances. If we make certain dilutive issuances (with limited exceptions), the exercise price of the Series A and Series C Warrants will be lowered to the per share price for the dilutive issuances. In addition, the exercise price of the Series A and Series C Warrants will adjust to the average of the Installment Conversion Prices used to repay the Note (see above for a discussion of the Note installment payments). Until we obtain shareholder approval (as discussed above), the floor price of the Series A and Series C Warrants is $0.34. The number of shares underlying the Series A and Series C Warrants will not be adjusted due to an adjustment of the exercise price pursuant to the preceding two sentences. To the extent we enter into a fundamental transaction (as defined in the Series A and Series C Warrants and which include, without limitation, our entering into a merger or consolidation with another entity, our selling all or substantially all of our assets, or a person acquiring 50% of our common stock), we have agreed to purchase the Series A and Series C Warrants from the holder at their Black-Scholes value. The exercise price of all the Warrants is subject to adjustment in the case of stock splits, stock dividends, combinations of shares and similar recapitalization transactions. The exercisability of the Warrants may be limited if, upon exercise, the holder or any of its affiliates would beneficially own more than 4.9% of our common stock. The Note may not be converted if the total number of shares that would be issued would exceed 19.99% of our common stock on the date the Purchase Agreement was executed prior to our receiving shareholder approval (as discussed above). Future Development Our long-term strategic plan calls for growth of our organic fertilizer business as well as expansion of our portfolio of sustainable, environmentally-friendly businesses. To grow our existing fertilizer business, we plan to develop and license additional organic fertilizer manufacturing facilities and utilize the remaining capacity of our Gonzales facility which currently operates at approximately 60% capacity. In connection with our plan to expand the capacity of our Gonzales facility, we plan to increase production to approximately three times the facilitys current production and, based on market demand, we may expand the capability of the plant to have the ability to produce both liquid and solid products. In connection with the plan for additional facilities, we have completed preliminary work aimed at establishing facilities in Massachusetts, where we have performed initial development work in connection with construction of three manufacturing facilities to serve the eastern Massachusetts market. Two of our proposals to develop facilities are currently under review by the property owners. The third proposal has evolved into the MassOrganics I transaction described below. The Massachusetts Strategic Envirotechnology Partnership Program has completed a review of our technology. We also plan to grow both our TerraSphere and Industrial Wastewater Resources Divisions. Through the TerraSphere acquisition, our plan is to expand our business into the market of building highly efficient systems for growing pesticide and chemical-free, organic fruits and vegetables in controlled indoor environments. TerraSpheres clean technology helps to promote the sustainable consumption of natural resources by accelerating plant production and maximizing crop yields, while improving environmental footprints through the reduction of carbon emissions and fuel use associated with traditional crop production and distribution. Also, we will continue to grow our Industrial Wastewater Resources Division by working to form industry and/or project-based partnerships that utilize our exclusively licensed, irrevocable technology to treat industrial wastewaters. We have developed smaller capacity operating units, namely the Scalable Modular AeRobic Technology (SMART) units that are suitable for processing 5 to 50 tons of waste per day. The semi-portable units are capable of 26 Table of Contents operating indoors or outdoors and may be as sophisticated or as basic in design and function as the owner/user requires. The SMART units will be delivered to jobsites in pre-assembled, pre-tested components, and will include a license to use the HTLC technology. Our target market is users who seek to address waste problems on a smaller scale than would be addressed by a large processing facility. Our plan contemplates that purchasers of the SMART units would receive tip fees for accepting waste and would sell fertilizer and soil amendment products in the markets where their units operate. We plan to market and sell the SMART units in both the United States and abroad. We have also begun the development of a licensing program, under which we will license to third parties, the right to use our proprietary HTLC technology. The licensing program consists of a know-how license, which could be complemented with SMART unit sales so that any individual or entity buying a SMART unit would also receive a license agreement to use our technology. We are working to patent our process and technology and anticipate that we will expand upon the licensing program when the necessary patent registrations are achieved. To date, we have had neither sales of these units nor licenses. Trends and Uncertainties Affecting our Operations We will be subject to a number of factors that may affect our operations and financial performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the available supply and price of organic food waste, the market for liquid and solid organic fertilizer, increasing energy costs, the unpredictable cost of compliance with environmental and other government regulation, and the time and cost of obtaining USDA, state or other product labeling designations. Demand for organic fertilizer and the resulting prices customers are willing to pay also may not be as high as we expect. In addition, supply of organic fertilizer products from the use of other technologies or other competitors may adversely affect our selling prices and consequently our overall profitability. In addition, a significant part of our growth strategy is based upon generating revenues from both our Industrial Wastewater business and from the acquisition of TerraSphere Systems, both of which are in early stages of development. This strategy requires licensees to raise the funding necessary to construct facilities, which has proven difficult. Furthermore our plan calls for raising additional debt and/or equity financing to construct additional operating facilities. Currently there has been a slowdown in lending in both the equity and bond markets which may hinder our ability to raise the required funds. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2011, we had total current assets of approximately $2.4 million consisting primarily of cash, accounts receivable, inventory and prepaid assets and had current liabilities of approximately $10.0 million, consisting primarily of convertible notes payable, accounts payable, derivative liabilities and liabilities from discontinued operations leaving us with negative working capital of approximately $7.6 million. Non-current assets totaled approximately $16.8 million and consisted primarily of property and equipment and intangible assets. Non-current liabilities consist of derivative liabilities totaling approximately $3.0 million at March 31, 2011. We have an accumulated deficit at March 31, 2011 of approximately $102 million. Owners equity at March 31, 2011 was approximately $6.2 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, we generated revenues from continuing operations of approximately $739,000 as compared to revenue from continuing operations of $712,000 for the same period in 2010. Although the California fertilizer business is currently cash flow positive and the closing of the Woodbridge facility in the third quarter of 2010 will save us approximately $6.0 million per year in net cash expenditures, we believe that we will continue to have negative cash flow from operations in 2011 due to the costs associated with corporate operations and funding the operations of TerraSphere. In addition, we believe that we will require additional cash to finance capital growth activities in order to build out the IWR and TerraSphere projects planned for 2011. We believe that if we achieve planned sales from our California facility, establish additional operational Industrial Wastewater sites, and complete the construction of a TerraSphere facility, then we can become cash flow positive in the future. In order to achieve these goals, however, we will need significant additional financing for which we have no commitments. Presently, our liquidity is limited to our cash on hand at March 31, 2011 and the $3.5 million that we received on April 20, 2011 as a result of the sale of convertible notes under a financing agreement entered into on April 1, 27 Table of Contents 2011. In addition, in connection with our December 2010 financing, we have warrants outstanding that if exercised could provide us with an additional $4.9 million. However, since receiving shareholder approval our stock price has closed at both above and below the exercise price of these warrants, and it is not likely that any warrants would be exercised unless the price of our stock was greater than the exercise price of the warrants. There is no assurance that the holders of the warrants will exercise the warrants in the near term, and as such, we may not receive these funds. If we do not receive additional funds in excess of the amount of cash on hand, whether as a result of the exercise of outstanding warrants issued in our December 2010 financing, or otherwise, we will not be able to continue our operations. We have projected our net cash out flows to be approximately $350,000 per month, and therefore, based on the cash on hand as of the filing date of this report, we have sufficient cash to operate until the end of 2011 assuming we expend no cash on future IWR, TerraSphere, or fertilizer capital projects. However, as our business strategy involves growing our IWR and TerraSphere divisions, we expect that we will require additional cash prior to the end of 2011. At this time, we do not have any commitments for additional financing, and there is no assurance that capital in any form will be available to us on terms and conditions that are acceptable or at all. Results of Continuing Operations Revenue Our revenues from continuing operations for the three month period ended March 31, 2011, was $739,000 compared to $712,000 for the same period ended March 31, 2010. The various components are described below. Revenue from fertilizer was $644,000 for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 ($565,000 for liquid fertilizer from Gonzales and $79,000 from the outsourced dry fertilizer) compared to $595,000 for the same period ended March 31, 2010. This increase of $49,000 in revenues is due to an increase in the sale of dry product produced by an out side vendor of $79,000 offset by a decrease in sales at the Gonzales facility of $30,000. We feel that the slight decrease in sales from Gonzales is immaterial based on the time of year and our expectations for increased sales in 2011 over 2010 will be achieved as we enter the active selling season. We expect sales from our dry product being produced by an outside vendor at a negative margin will continue through the second quarter of 2011, but as this program was initiated to satisfy two large customers who historically only purchase product in the first half of the year. Converted Organics of Mississippi, formed in January 26, 2010, generated revenues of $117,000 during the first quarter of 2010. In the first quarter of 2011, this entity had no revenue as the Company that we purchased the product from has filed for bankruptcy protection and the product is no longer available. The Industrial Wastewater Resources segment of our business recognized revenues in the amount of $96,000 in the three month period ended March 31, 2011. This segment had no revenues in 2010, as it was in the start up phase of operations. Our TerraSphere segment did not report any revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2011. TerraSphere continues to seek opportunities whereby it will generate license revenues from new licensees, generate equipment revenues from current licensees, and is also seeking financing to complete a production facility in Rhode Island, whereby we would generate revenues from the sale of produce. We do expect to generate revenues from TerraSphere in 2011. Cost of Goods Sold For the three month period ended March 31, 2011, we had cost of goods of approximately $504,000 compared to $565,000 for the same period in 2010. The decrease in cost of goods sold is detailed below. Cost of goods sold related to fertilizer at the Gonzales facility was approximately $380,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2011, leaving an operating margin of $184,000 or 33%, compared to cost of goods of 28 Table of Contents $498,000 for the same period in 2010 and an operating margin of 16% . This favorable variance is due to decreased materials and production costs in the first quarter of 2011. Cost of goods for our dry fertilizer product (produced by an outside supplier) was approximately $98,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2011, leaving an operating margin of negative 22%. There was no comparable activity in 2010. We expect that this negative trend will continue as we undertook this line of business in order to satisfy the requirements of two major customers that we did not want to lose due to the closure of our New Jersey facility. Cost of goods for our IWR segment was $26,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2011 leaving an operating margin of 73%. There was no comparable activity in 2010 as the business was in the start of operations. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 were approximately $2.3 million compared to approximately $3.8 million for the same period in 2010. The decrease of approximately $1.5 million is primarily comprised of a $700,000 non-cash decrease in compensation expense, as stock options were not granted in the three months ended March 31, 2011, but were in the months ended March 31, 2010; a decrease in marketing costs of $550,000; and a decrease in professional fees of $250,000 associated with acquisition activity. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was approximately $2.3 million compared to approximately $4,000 for the same period in 2010. This increase of approximately $2.3 million is directly associated with the amortization of debt discounts related to our convertible notes and is a non-cash item. Derivative gain (loss) For the three months ended March 31, 2011, we had a derivative gain of approximately $2.4 million compared to a derivative loss of approximately $635,000 for the same period in 2010. This is a non-cash gain and is related to the valuation of certain derivative features included in certain of our warrants and convertible debt obligations, and included in an anti-dilution provision related to shares issued in the TerraSphere acquisition. In addition, certain derivative instruments were issued and settled during the quarter, which impacted the derivative gain (loss). Results of Discontinued Operations On July 30, 2010, the Company temporarily halted production at its Woodbridge facility in order to undertake steps to lower its cost structure at the Woodbridge facility. Specifically, the Company attempted to negotiate more favorable terms under its operating lease and to lower certain utility costs. The Company was unable to lower such costs and therefore, management determined that the Company could not sustain the negative cash flow from the Woodbridge facility and discontinued operations at the Woodbridge plant in the third quarter of 2010. The following table summarizes the components of the loss from discontinued operations: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Revenue from discontinued operations $ $ 147,949 Loss from discontinued operations $ (499 ) $ (1,909,291 ) 29 Table of Contents The Company does not expect to have any continuing cash flows from operations associated with the Woodbridge facility. The following table provides the assets and liabilities of the Woodbridge facility, classified as discontinued operations, in the consolidated balance sheets dated March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010: March 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 Accounts receivable, net $ $ 14,500 Assets of discontinued operations $ $ 14,500 Accounts payable $ 828,712 $ 837,606 Accrued expenses 77,874 1,571,874 Other liabilities 28,773 28,773 Liabilities of discontinued operations $ 935,359 $ 2,438,253 On January 25, 2011, the Company paid cash of $150,000 and issued 3.2 million shares of Company common stock with a fair value of $1,344,000 in payment for consulting services accrued at December 31, 2010 related to the settlement of certain Woodbridge obligations. The Company is actively working with its creditors to settle the liabilities outstanding at March 31, 2011. Critical Accounting policies The following is a brief discussion of our critical accounting policies and methods, and the judgments and estimates used by us in their application: Revenue Recognition Our organic fertilizer operation generates revenues from two sources: product sales and tip fees. Product sales revenue comes from the sale of fertilizer products. Tip fee revenue is derived from waste haulers who pay us fees for accepting food waste generated by food distributors such as grocery stores, produce docks and fish markets, food processors and hospitality venues such as hotels, restaurants, convention centers and airports. The IWR operation generates revenue by setting up treatment systems on customers sites and processing their wastewater on a price-per-gallon basis. Our vertical farming operation is expected to derive its revenue from licensing fees and royalties, as well as the sale of equipment and expects future revenue from operating facilities using our patented technology. Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria are met: Persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; Delivery of the product has occurred; The sales price is fixed or determinable; and Collectability is reasonably assured. In those cases where all four criteria are not met, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the period in which these criteria are satisfied. Revenue is generally recognized upon shipment of product for our fertilizer 30 Table of Contents business, and for TerraSphere we expect to recognize technology license revenue immediately upon completed performance if the term of exclusive technology licenses is equal to the life of the associated intellectual property, otherwise license revenue would be recognized over the term of the license. We recognize deferred revenue when payment has been received for product sales but the revenue recognition criteria have not been met. In addition, we defer revenue when payment has been received for future services to be provided. Share-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments exchanged for services in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 718 Compensation Stock Compensation (ASC 718) regarding share-based compensation. Under the provisions of ASC 718, share-based compensation issued to employees is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the grant). Share-based compensation issued to non-employees is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instruments issued, whichever is more readily measurable, and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period. Long-Lived Assets We account for our long-lived assets (excluding goodwill) in accordance with ASC 360 Property, Plant and Equipment (ASC 360), which requires that long-lived assets and certain intangible assets be reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, such as technological changes or significantly increased competition. If undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets, an impairment loss is to be recognized based on the fair value of the assets, calculated using an undiscounted cash flow model. There is inherent subjectivity and judgments involved in cash flow analyses such as estimating revenue and cost growth rates, residual or terminal values and discount rates, which can have a significant impact on the amount of any impairment. Goodwill We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each year and when events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying amount. Such circumstances could include, but are not limited to (1) a significant adverse change in legal factors or in business climate, (2) unanticipated competition, or (3) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. When evaluating whether goodwill is impaired, we compare the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill is assigned to the reporting units carrying amount, including goodwill. The fair value of the reporting unit is estimated using a combination of the income, or discounted cash flows, approach and the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, then the amount of the impairment loss must be measured. The impairment loss would be calculated by comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill to its carrying amount. In calculating the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill, the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the other assets and liabilities of that unit based on their fair values. The excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the amount assigned to its other assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. An impairment loss would be recognized when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. No events or change in circumstances occurred that would impair the carrying value of goodwill for the three month period ended March 31, 2011. Intangible Assets We account for intangible assets in accordance with ASC 350 Intangibles Goodwill and Other (ASC 350), which requires that intangible assets with finite lives, such as our license and patents, be capitalized and amortized over their respective estimated lives and reviewed for impairment whenever events or other changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite 31 Table of Contents lives are not amortized and are subject to impairment testing annually or whenever events or other changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. This testing compares carrying values to fair values and when appropriate, the carrying value of these assets is reduced to fair value. During the three month period ended March 31, 2011, there was no impairment on intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives. Derivative Instruments We account for derivative instruments in accordance with ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815), which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other financial instruments or contracts and requires recognition of all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. Accounting for changes in the fair value of derivative instruments depends on whether the derivatives qualify as hedge relationships and the types of relationships designated are based on the exposures hedged. At March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we did not have any derivative instruments that were designated as hedges. Discontinued Operations We discontinued the operations of our Woodbridge facility during the third quarter of 2010. Assets and liabilities related to the Woodbridge facility have been classified as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and its operations have been classified as loss from discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss for the periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010. Fair Value Measurements Fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement. Therefore, a fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs that are classified within Levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy) and the reporting entitys own assumptions about market participant assumptions (unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy): Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access. Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs may include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, as well as inputs that are observable for the asset or liability (other than quoted prices), such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability which are typically based on an entitys own assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity. In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. Income Taxes We consider the valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets to be a significant accounting estimate. In applying ASC 740 Income Taxes , management estimates future taxable income from operations and tax planning 32 Table of Contents strategies in determining if it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefits of our deferred tax assets. Management believes the Company does not have any uncertain tax positions. Off-Balance Sheet Transactions We do not engage in material off-balance sheet transactions.