ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements and related notes to the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that relate to future events or our future financial performance. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our current expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks including the Risk Factors identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2011. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Converted Organics Inc. is sometimes referred to herein as we, us, our and the Company. General As of the filing date of this report, we have entered into a limited financing agreement that provides for monthly working capital needs (which may be discontinued by the investor if it believes in its good faith discretion that the prospect of repayment is impaired or is unlikely to occur) at the corporate level, which, if certain conditions are met, would allow us to operate until December 31, 2012, but we currently do not have sufficient cash to operate or expand our Industrial Wastewater Treatment (IWR) and Vertical Farming (TerraSphere) segments. In addition, if our monthly financing arrangement is terminated for any reason, we would no longer have sufficient funds to continue our operations. Presently, within our Organic Fertilizer segment, our facility in Gonzales, CA is operational and self supporting (assuming no corporate overhead) but does not provide enough cash flow to either fund corporate operating needs or expand that business segment. Our Industrial Wastewater Treatment segment continues to own an exclusive license to operate licensed technology, however, the concentrator unit located in Colorado has been abandoned and the management agreement to operate that concentrator unit has been terminated due to lack of cash sufficient to pay the costs of financing the equipment. Our Vertical Farming segment owns patents related to that industry and in early 2012 has sold a license for use in the production of medical marijuana; however, the Company lacks the cash to fund the ongoing development expenses for the TerraSphere segment. We are considering what segments, or portions thereof, we might be able to spin off to shareholders. While it is uncertain whether there will be continuing cash flows from these segments, any such cash flows will continue to be directly generated as part of the ongoing operations and continued involvement of the Company. Based on current operations or the ownership of certain licenses and patents we have not classified any of our business segments as discontinued operations in the accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements. Our plan is to continue to seek a way to provide value to our shareholders and we feel the best way to do that is to work with our creditors to pay off our debt, continue to operate our organic fertilizer segment, find investment for, or a buyer for, the Industrial Wastewater Treatment segment (we have an exclusive license to operate concentrator units, even though the South Canyon, Colorado project had to be abandoned), spin off segments, or portions thereof to our shareholders, and seek a merger partner that can benefit from our status as a public company. Presently, we believe the only way to proceed to implement this plan is to have the holder of our outstanding convertible secured promissory note continue to convert the note into shares of common stock, which has been fully paid off as of the filing date of this report, and to continue to sell new convertible notes on a monthly basis through 2012 to this investor. There is no guarantee that the buyer of these notes will continue to fund our operations, as the terms of our arrangement state that the buyer can refuse to fund additional notes if it believes the prospect of repayment on its indebtedness is impaired or is unlikely to occur. Presently, assuming we continue to receive monthly funding from the issuance of new convertible notes, it is not our intention to seek any form of court protection to accomplish our plan. Based on our historically low stock price, the conversion of the notes has resulted in massive issuances of our common stock, which required us to affect a 1:10 reverse split in November 2011 and a 1:500 reverse split in February 2012 in order to maintain sufficient shares to permit the conversions. In addition, if the price of our common stock declines from current levels, we may not have sufficient shares to permit the full conversion of the notes or the future conversion of the monthly notes we are issuing, which means we would be required to either repay the note in cash, which we do not have, or request approval from our shareholders to complete one or more additional reverse stock splits (we have filed a proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting and have requested that the shareholders approve an additional reverse split). During the first quarter of 2012, Converted Organics had three business segments. The three segments are Organic Fertilizer, Industrial Wastewater Treatment and Vertical Farming. For the quarter ended March 31, 2012, only the Organic Fertilizer and Vertical Farming segments produced revenue (revenues for the Organic Fertilizer business began in 2008). In the quarter ended March 31, 2012, we did not generate revenue from the Industrial Wastewater Treatment segment. While it is uncertain whether there will be continuing cash flows from these segments, any such cash flows will continue to be directly generated as part of the ongoing operations and continued involvement of the Company. On March 12, 2012, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement), pursuant to which we acquired 150 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the Preferred Shares) of Innovate/Protect, Inc., a privately-held Delaware corporation, for $495,000. Innovate Protect, Inc. maximizes the economic benefit of intellectual property assets, and through its subsidiary, I/P Engine, initiated a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia against Google, Inc., AOL, 17 Table of Contents Inc., IAC Search & Media, Inc., Gannett Company, Inc. and Target Corporation for unlawfully using systems that incorporate features claimed in two patents owned by I/P Engine. Upon acquisition of the shares of Preferred Stock, the Company converted the shares of preferred stock into shares of common stock. Innovate/Protect has entered into a merger agreement with Vringo, Inc. (NYSE Amex: VRNG), a provider of software platforms for mobile social and video applications. If the merger is consummated, subject to the terms of the merger agreement, the shares of Innovate/Protect owned by Converted Organics Inc. will be converted into 452,640 shares of common stock of Vringo, as well as approximately 181,000 warrants to purchase shares of Vringo common stock at an exercise price of $1.76 per share (subject to adjustment). Introduction The Company has three business segments, which are (1) organic fertilizer, (2) vertical farming and (3) industrial wastewater treatment. Based on the nature of products and services offered, the Company has determined each line of business is a reportable segment at March 31, 2012. The Company evaluates performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment operating income. There were no intersegment sales for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. The discreet financial information is presented below as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 Organic Fertilizer Vertical Farming Industrial Wastewater Corporate and Eliminations Consolidated Revenues $ 386,666 $ 14,323 $ $ $ 400,989 Operating loss from continuing operations(1) (173,727 ) (190,423 ) (690,307 ) (1,054,457 ) Depreciation and amortization(2) 106,691 66,912 38,073 211,676 Interest expense(3) 1,804 1,186,372 1,188,176 Net income (loss) (173,727 ) (282,844 ) 3,424,808 2,968,237 Total assets(4) 3,051,768 2,935,805 500,000 696,386 7,183,959 Property and equipment additions For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 Organic Fertilizer Vertical Farming Industrial Wastewater Corporate and Eliminations Consolidated Revenues $ 644,000 $ $ 95,176 $ $ 739,176 Operating loss from continuing operations(1) (82,001 ) (551,059 ) (2,823 ) (1,635,338 ) (2,271,221 ) Depreciation and amortization(2) 105,089 112,915 5,556 149,109 372,669 Interest expense(3) 6,642 2,267,820 2,274,462 Net loss (82,001 ) (332,698 ) (2,823 ) (1,431,026 ) (1,848,548 ) Property and equipment additions 123,564 2,255 1,600,000 1,725,819 (1) Operating income (loss) of the principal businesses exclude corporate compensation, marketing expense, professional fees and other unallocated expenses. (2) Depreciation and amortization expense associated with property and equipment, intangibles and deferred financing fees. Corporate amortization expense relates to deferred financing fees. (3) Corporate interest expense is primarily related to amortization of discounts on convertible notes payable. (4) Total business assets are the owned or allocated assets used by each business. Corporate assets consist of cash, prepaid expenses, certain other assets and deferred financing costs. Revenues are attributable to geographic areas based on the locations of the customers, which are primarily within the continental United States. The fertilizer segment derived approximately $158,000 or 41% of its revenues from two customers and the vertical farming segment derived 100% of its revenue from one customer for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The industrial wastewater segment derived 100% of its revenues from one customers and the organic fertilizer segment derived 62% of its revenue from four customers for the three months ended March 31, 2011. 18 Table of Contents Our operating structure is composed of our parent company, Converted Organics Inc. (COIN) and the subsidiaries listed below. Expenditures at the corporate level (items paid for by COIN) include management and public company expenses, along with the expenses associated with its Industrial Wastewater Treatment business, and the outsourcing of dry product fertilizer production. It was the intention of management to transfer the operations of IWR and the dry fertilizer product to a subsidiary level when business volumes became appropriate. The current subsidiaries of COIN are as follows: Converted Organics of California, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of COIN, which includes the operation of our Gonzales, CA facility. Converted Organics of Woodbridge, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of COIN, which includes the discontinued operation of our Woodbridge, NJ facility. Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of COIN, established for the purpose of adding a poultry litter-based fertilizer product to the Companys existing product lines. Converted Organics of Rhode Island, LLC (RILLC), an inactive subsidiary of Converted Organics Inc., of which we own 92.5%. RILLC has no assets or liabilities. RILLC was originally established for the purpose of operating a food waste to fertilizer plant in Rhode Island. The only asset that RILLC had acquired was an operating lease from the Rhode Island Resource Recovery Corporation (RIRRC) for a parcel of land which was intended to serve as the site for the planned plant. The Company did not have the resources to begin construction on a plant and therefore entered into a letter of intent to sell the operating lease rights to a third party who would also obtain a license from Converted Organics Inc. to operate the proposed facility. The letter of intent does not remain in effect, as the operating lease reverted back to the RIRRC in the fourth quarter of 2010. The RIRRC is a separate and distinct corporation, operated by the state of Rhode Island for the purpose of operating recycling facilities and the Company has no related party or affiliated relationship with that entity. TerraSphere Inc., a Delaware C corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of COIN, was established to hold COINs investment in TerraSphere Systems, LLC (Systems LLC) in which COIN acquired a 95% interest on November 12, 2010. Systems LLC owns 85% of TerraSphere Systems Canada Inc. and 100% of PharmaSphere, LLC, which in turn owns 100% of PharmaSphere Worcester, LLC. COINs acquisition of its interest in Systems LLC was approved by our shareholders at a special meeting held on September 16, 2010. GoLocalProduceRI, LLC, an 83.34% owned subsidiary of COIN, was acquired on December 30, 2010 for the purpose of building and operating a TerraSphere facility. Organic Fertilizer Business We operate a processing facility in Gonzales, CA that uses food and agricultural waste as raw materials to manufacture all-natural fertilizer and soil amendment products combining nutritional and disease suppression characteristics for sale to our agribusiness market. During 2012, have not recorded any sales from our production facility in Woodbridge, NJ, as operations at that facility were discontinued and we will not have sales from that facility in the future. In the first quarter of 2011 we contracted with a third party manufacturer and packager to produce our 8-1-4 dry product to sell to our established retail and turf management customers that were previously serviced by our Woodbridge, NJ facility. We generated approximately $285,000 in revenue from this outsourced product in 2011 but we do not plan to generate revenue in 2012 from the outsourced product. Our plan to produce future revenue from the fertilizer business is based upon our continued operation of our Gonzales, CA facility and possibly the licensing the use of our technology to others. Converted Organics of California, LLC Gonzales, CA Facility The Gonzales, CA facility is our production facility that services the West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. This facility uses our proprietary technology and process known as High Temperature Liquid Composting, or HTLC , which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and food waste-based fertilizer and a limited amount of solids that could be further processed into a useable form for use in agriculture, retail, and professional turf markets. The Gonzales, CA facility generated revenues of approximately $387,000 and a gross margin of approximately $31,000, or 8% (based on no allocation of corporate overhead) and we did not generate positive cash flow for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. The gross margin of 8% is significantly less than the 27% achieved in 2011 and the decline is due to lower than anticipated sales and fixed production costs (this is further discussed in the results of operations section below). We plan to improve this operating margin by maximizing the production capacity at the facility, as discussed below, by generating tip fees from receiving additional quantities of food processing waste and by reducing the amount of raw material and freight costs currently associated with the production process. We estimate that the production facility, in its current configuration, and based on current market prices, has the capacity to generate monthly sales in the range of $350,000 to $400,000. 19 Table of Contents In 2008 we entered into certain arrangements whereby we became the exclusive owner of the HTLC system, which enables the processing of various biodegradable waste products into liquid and solid food waste-based fertilizer and feed products. In addition, the acquisition of this technology provides for a technology fee payment of $5,500 per ton of waste-processing capacity for capacity that is either added to plants that were not planned at the time of this acquisition and that use this technology. There is a 10-year cap for these processing capacity charges, and no minimum payment is required. This fee did not apply to the Woodbridge, NJ facility and does not apply to the Gonzales, CA facility, including the currently planned addition thereto, but expansion in excess of the current plan will trigger payable fees for that excess. The agreement also provides for a 50% profit share with the seller on any portable facilities. During 2010 and part of 2011, we were also party to an agreement with Pacific Seafoods Inc. (Pacific Seafoods) whereby we agreed to pay Pacific Seafoods 50% of the profits from the development of a fish-waste product. Under this agreement, the seller of the HTLC technology would also be entitled to 50% of our profits from this joint venture. Our profits from this arrangement are thus 25% of the total profits from the enterprise (50% of total profits net half of the remainder). To date, no profits have been earned from the fish-waste product and the agreement has expired. We continue to have access to the fish waste from this supplier on an as purchased basis and, if the need for the product continues, we plan to produce it. Combined payments of both the $5,500 per ton technology fee and the profits paid from the fish waste-processing product, if any, are capped at $7.0 million, with no minimum payment required. It is our intention to expense the payments, if any, that are paid on either the profits from the fish waste-processing product or the $5,500 per-ton technology fee. We do not expect to have any related payments in 2012. Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC On January 26, 2010, we formed Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC, a Mississippi limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. We established this entity for the purpose of adding a poultry litter-based fertilizer to our existing product lines, and we outsourced the production of this product. We did not have any sales from this product in 2011 or the first quarter of 2012 and we do not expect sales from this product in the future. Converted Organics of Woodbridge, LLC During the third quarter of 2010, we discontinued the operations of our Woodbridge, NJ facility, which is discussed further in this section under the caption Results of Discontinued Operations. Industrial Wastewater Treatment Business In March 2010, we began to operate an Industrial Wastewater Resources division of the Company (IWR) to leverage our exclusive license of the LM-HT Concentrator technology for the treatment of industrial wastewater. Due to its unique, energy efficient design, the LM-HT Concentrator provides a highly cost-effective alternative to traditional industrial wastewater treatment technology. On March 23, 2010, we entered into a loan and license agreement with Heartland Technology Partners, LLC (HTP). The non-interest bearing loan agreement required us to advance $500,000 to HTP in three monthly installments that commenced upon signing of the loan. The outstanding principal balance of the loan is due only if either a change of control of HTP or the completion by HTP of a financing in excess of $10 million occurs on or before June 30, 2012. In consideration for entering into the loan agreement, we were granted an exclusive, irrevocable license to utilize HTPs patented LM-HT Concentrator technology in the U.S. industrial wastewater market. The industrial wastewater market involves the treatment of waters that have been contaminated by anthropogenic industrial or commercial activities, prior to their reuse or release into the environment. The LM-HT Concentrator reduces carbon emissions compared to traditional technologies by using waste heat and renewable energy as thermal fuel. On July 30, 2010, we signed a letter of intent with Spirit Services, Inc. to jointly develop an energy and industrial wastewater treatment facility using our exclusively licensed technology to evaporate industrial wastewater at a facility in South Boston, Virginia. We have subsequently signed additional agreements to establish relationships to jointly develop industrial wastewater treatment facilities at certain established waste treatment facilities in the United States. This letter of intent and further agreements have not resulted in formal contracts and due to expense reduction efforts we have terminated the general manager position of the IWR segment. We do not believe that any of these agreements will generate revenue in 2012. We are currently investigating alternatives to producing revenues from this license. During 2011, IWR operated an industrial wastewater concentrator on Glenwood Springs Landfill Enterprises South Canyon Landfill in Glenwood Springs, CO as a result of an agreement signed in January of 2011 with Waste Systems, Inc. This facility was designed to treat 15,000 gallons of aqueous waste per day and was be fueled by the combustion of biomass diverted from disposal in the landfill. Among the industrial wastewaters treated by the plant were septic, wash waters, process waters, man-camp wastewaters, and wastewaters from oil and gas exploration activities. Under this agreement we were paid a per gallon fee for the amount of industrial wastewater that was treated, less labor costs to operate the unit and a marketing fee to generate industrial wastewater delivered to the facility. In addition, we were responsible for repairs and maintenance of the evaporator unit. We were responsible for the purchase of the evaporator unit and will own it. The unit was manufactured by HTP. As of January 2011 we began to generate revenue under this agreement from South Canyon Landfills traditional method of wastewater treatment as we waited for conditional air permits. Such permits were received in March of 2011, at which time we paid $600,000 of the $1.6 million purchase price of the evaporator and the unit commenced operations. The agreement that we had with South Canyon landfill called for us to own the equipment and they will operate it. We would receive the gross revenue from the wastewater that is treated less a charge for direct labor to operate the equipment, repairs and maintenance on the equipment and a marketing fee to allow us to attract additional wastewater customers to use the South Canyon landfill for wastewater disposal. In the later part of 2011, we were unable to 20 Table of Contents continue to make the required payments towards the equipment and in early January 2012 we received notice from Waste Systems, Inc. that the agreement had been terminated and the equipment and any deposits made on the equipment remained with Waste Systems and therefore we will not generate further revenue from this operation. Vertical Farming Business On May 20, 2010, we formed TerraSphere Inc., a Delaware C corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, for the purpose of acquiring the membership interests of TerraSphere Systems, LLC (TerraSphere Systems). On July 6, 2010, a membership interest purchase agreement was entered into by the Company, TerraSphere Inc., TerraSphere Systems, and the members of TerraSphere Systems, pursuant to which we agreed to acquire the membership interests of TerraSphere Systems. The maximum total shares that could be issued for TerraSphere Systems was estimated to be 6,833 shares of our common stock, which included earn-out share payments of up to 2,921 shares of our common stock. Pursuant to the purchase agreement, the acquisition was approved by our shareholders on September 16, 2010, and the Company acquired 95% of the membership interest of TerraSphere Systems on November 12, 2010. We issued 6,556 shares of our common stock to the members of TerraSphere Systems in exchange for 95% of the units of TerraSphere Systems, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. Of these shares, 3,635 shares were issued on November 12, 2010, the closing of the acquisition, and the remainder of the shares were to be issued if TerraSphere achieved four milestones. As of the filing date of this report, three of the four milestones, TerraSpheres collection of $2.0 million of its accounts receivable by February 28, 2011 and market capitalization and gross margin as of December 31, 2011 were subject to measurement. Those three milestones were not met, and as a result we will not issue the 2,190 shares of our common stock associated with those milestones. The final milestone (additional gross margin) is to be measured at December 31, 2012 and at this time we do not expect that this final milestone will be met. TerraSphere Systems is in the business of designing, building, and operating highly efficient and scalable systems, featuring a patented, proprietary technology that utilizes vertically-stacked modules to house rows of plants, which are then placed perpendicular to an interior light source to grow pesticide and chemical-free organic fruits and vegetables. Due to a controlled, indoor environment, the system generates fresh produce year-round in any location or climate world-wide. During all of 2011 we funded the TerraSphere operation and sought additional financing to build out the TerraSphere business. By the end of 2011, we had not been successful in those efforts and we are unable to continue to fund the operations. 2011 and 2012 Financing Activities On April 1, 2011, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with an institutional investor whereby we sold to the investor a convertible note in the aggregate original principal amount of $3,850,000 (the Original Note), which was convertible into shares of our common stock. The Original Note was issued with an original issue discount of approximately 9.1%, and the proceeds from the Original Note were $3,500,000. The Original Note was noninterest bearing. On November 2, 2011, we entered into an agreement pursuant to which we agreed with the holder of the Original Note to exchange Original Note, which had $3,474,797 of principal outstanding on November 2, 2011, for a senior secured convertible in the aggregate original principal amount of $3,474,797 (the Note). The terms of the Note we issued on November 2, 2011 were substantially identical to the terms of the Original Note, except that we were not required to amortize payment for the Note and the maturity date of the Note was extended to May 2, 2012, instead of February 17, 2012. During the second quarter of 2012, the investor converted the entire remaining balance of the Note into shares of our common stock and the $1,153,950 balance on the Note as of March 31, 2012 has been reduced to $0 as of April 13, 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we also agreed to issue to the Note holder warrants to acquire shares of common stock, in the form of three warrants: (i) Series A Warrants, (ii) Series B Warrants and (iii) Series C Warrants. The Series B Warrants expired in May 2012. In April 2012, we agreed to the following amendments (the April Warrant Amendments) to the above warrants: (1) the anti-dilution price protection currently contained in such warrants (which provides that if we issue common stock or common stock equivalents at a price per share that is lower than the exercise price of the warrants, the exercise price of the warrants will be reduced to such lower price) will now also apply to issuances of common stock or common stock equivalents to the warrant holders under separate securities; (2) upon any adjustment in the exercise price of the warrants as described in (1) above or otherwise, the number of shares of common stock underlying such warrants shall be increased such that the aggregate exercise price of the warrants will remain the same; and (3) upon a Fundamental Transaction (as defined in each of the warrants), the warrant holders will be permitted to require us (or any successor entity) to purchase the warrants from the warrant holders at a price equal to the greater of (A) the Black Scholes value of the warrants or (B) the product of $0.10 multiplied by the number of shares underlying such warrants (disregarding, for the purposes of making the calculation of the number of shares underlying the warrants, any adjustments to such share number arising solely from an adjustment to the exercise price of the warrants due to the completion of a combination (or reverse split) of our common stock after April 2012; provided that the amount payable to the warrant holders pursuant to (B) above will not exceed $25.0 million in the aggregate. The Series A Warrants are exercisable six months and one day after issuance and have a five year term commencing on the initial exercise date. As of May 10, 2012, the exercise price of the Series A Warrants is $0.0072 per share, and the number of shares underlying the Series A Warrants on such date is 50,746,527. The Series C Warrants provide that if on the later of (1) the expiration date of the Series B Warrants or (2) the date on which we register the shares of common stock underlying the securities we issued in the Original Note offering, we have the right to redeem from such holder its Series C Warrant for $1,000 under certain circumstances, including that less than 50% of the Series B Warrants have been exercised. The Series B Warrants expired unexercised in May 2012. The exercisability of the warrants may be limited if, upon exercise, the holder or any of its affiliates would beneficially own more than 4.9% of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents On January 3, 2012, we entered into an agreement with an institutional investor whereby we agreed to sell to the investor twelve senior secured convertible notes (the January Notes). The initial January Note was issued on January 3, 2012 in an original principal amount of $247,500, for a purchase price of $225,000. The remaining eleven January Notes will each have an original principal amount of $237,600, and will each be issued for a purchase price of $216,000. Each January Note matures eight months after issuance. The total face value of the twelve notes under this agreement will be $2,861,100, assuming each note is sold to the investor, of which there is no assurance. The January Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion price equal to 80% of lowest bid price of our common stock on the date of conversion. As of May 8, 2012, the total principal outstanding on these notes was $960,300. We also agreed to issue to the investor up to twelve warrants to acquire shares of common stock, each such issuance to occur along with each purchase of a January Note. Each warrant provides that the holder is initially entitled to purchase the number of shares of common stock equal to 50% of the number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion in full of the applicable January Note (based on initial fixed conversion price equal to the three lowest closing sale prices of our common stock during the twenty trading day period preceding the issuance of the particular January Note, with respect to each January Note, such term is referred to as the Fixed Conversion Price) at an initial exercise price equal to the Fixed Conversion Price of the applicable January Note that is issued along with such warrant. Each of the warrants issued and to be issued in connection with the January Notes was subject to the April Warrant Amendments. With respect to the initial January Notes issued from January 3, 2012 through April 30, 2012, using the Fixed Conversion Price, which means (after taking into account the reverse split we completed in March 2012) the minimum number of shares of common stock underlying the initial January Note is 26,471,887 shares. As of May 8, 2012, the number of shares of common stock underlying the warrants issued in connection with the initial January Notes were 66,687,506 shares and the exercise price of the warrant was $0.0072. We cannot predict the Fixed Conversion Price for the remaining eleven January Notes and corresponding warrants at this time. As such, the total number of shares underlying all twelve January Notes and warrants is unknown. On March 12, 2012, we entered into an agreement (the March Agreement) with two investors, pursuant to which we agreed to effect an additional closing of notes identical to the January Notes in which we issued the buyers new notes having an aggregate original principal amount of $550,000 for a purchase price of $500,000 (the New Notes), and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2,619,048 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $0.105 per share (the New Warrants). The New Notes and New Warrants have identical terms to the January Notes and warrants described above. Each of the New Warrants issued was subject to the April Warrant Amendments, provided that in addition to such amendments, the New Warrants were amended to state that a portion of the New Warrants would be callable by us upon if the daily volume of our common stock was two million shares or greater for five consecutive trading days. Trends and Uncertainties Affecting our Operations We will be subject to a number of factors that may affect our operations and financial performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the available supply and price of organic food waste, the market for liquid and solid organic fertilizer, increasing energy costs, the unpredictable cost of compliance with environmental and other government regulation, and the time and cost of obtaining USDA, state or other product labeling designations. Demand for organic fertilizer and the resulting prices customers are willing to pay also may not be as high as our market studies suggest. In addition, supply of organic fertilizer products from the use of other technologies or other competitors may adversely affect our selling prices and consequently our overall profitability. In addition, our plan for 2012 includes the sale of additional convertible notes, leveraging of the IWR license and finding a merger candidate. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in any or all of these efforts. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2012, we had total current assets of approximately $745,000, consisting primarily of cash and fertilizer inventory, and had current liabilities of approximately $6.8 million, consisting primarily of term and convertible notes payable, accounts payable, liabilities from discontinued operations and derivative liabilities, leaving us with negative working capital of approximately $6.0 million. Non-current assets totaled approximately $6.4 million and consisted primarily of property and equipment and intangible assets. We have an accumulated deficit at March 31, 2012 of approximately $112 million. We had stockholders equity at March 31, 2012 of approximately $368,000. For the first quarter of 2012, we generated revenues from continuing operations of approximately $401,000 as compared to revenue from continuing operations of $739,000 for the same period in 2011. A full discussion of the variance in revenue is included in the results of operations section below. Although the California fertilizer business is cash flow positive, we do not expect that it will generate enough cash to fund the corporate overhead, even though we have greatly reduced it from 2011 levels, and we do not have enough cash to fund any operating activity in the TerraSphere or IWR segments, although we continue to seek ways to generate cash and revenues from the license and patents in both the TerraSphere and IWR segments. While it is uncertain whether there will be continuing cash flows from these segments, any such cash flows will continue to be directly generated as part of the ongoing operations and continued involvement of the Company. Presently, our liquidity is limited to our cash on hand at March 31, 2012 of approximately $77,000, and the approximately $2.8 million that we may receive in 2012 as a result of the sale of the additional convertible notes. Through May 14, 2012 we have sold $960,300 of these notes and may sell up to $237,600 per month through December 31, 2012, if certain conditions are met. Currently, all of our warrant issuances are not in the money and our stock price has been less than $.01 per share and, therefore, we do not expect to raise any significant funds due to the exercise of warrants. 22 Table of Contents If we do not receive additional funds in excess of the amount of cash on hand, whether as a result of the exercise of the warrants issued or the convertible note, or otherwise, we will not be able to continue our operations once the cash on hand is utilized. Even in the event that we do receive additional funds, there is no guarantee that such funds will be sufficient to continue operations until we achieve our plan. At this time we do not have any commitments for additional financing, and there is no assurance that capital in any form will be available to us on terms and conditions that are acceptable or at all. Results of Continuing Operations Revenue Our revenues from continuing operations for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 was $401,000 compared to $739,000 for the same period ended March 31, 2011. The various components are described below. Revenue from fertilizer was $387,000 for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 ($387,000 for liquid fertilizer from Gonzales and $0 from the outsourced dry fertilizer) compared to $644,000 for the same period ended March 31, 2011 ($565,000 for liquid fertilizer from Gonzales and $79,000 from outsourced dry fertilizer). This decrease of $257,000 in revenues is due to a decrease in the sale of dry product produced by an outside vendor of $79,000 and a decrease in sales at the Gonzales facility of $178,000. The decrease in sales from Gonzales is due to loss of a customer and increased competition in the organic fertilizer market. We did not have sales in 2012 of the outsourced dry fertilizer product as we did not continue the production of that product after June 2011. The IWR segment of our business recognized revenues in the amount of $95,000 in the three month period ended March 31, 2011. This segment had no revenues in 2012, as our agreement to operate a concentrator unit in Colorado was terminated in late 2011. Our TerraSphere segment did not report any revenues for the three month period ended March 31, 2011 and reported approximately $14,000 of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The revenue that was generated in 2012 was associated with product sales in Canada. We do not have the funds to operate the facility in Canada and we do not expect further sales in 2012 from that facility. Cost of Goods Sold For the three month period ended March 31, 2012, we had cost of goods of approximately $356,000 compared to $504,000 for the same period in 2011. The decrease in cost of goods sold is detailed below. Cost of goods sold related to fertilizer at the Gonzales facility was approximately $356,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2012, leaving an operating margin of $31,000 or 8%, compared to cost of goods of $380,000 for the same period in 2011 and an operating margin of $213,000 or 33%. This decline in margin is due to a decline in sales with production costs remaining fixed. Cost of goods for our dry fertilizer product (produced by an outside supplier) was approximately $98,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2011, leaving an operating margin of negative 24%. There was no comparable activity in 2012. Cost of goods for our IWR segment was $26,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2011 leaving an operating margin of 73%. There was no comparable activity in 2012 as we no longer operate the Colorado facility. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 were approximately $973,000 compared to approximately $2.3 million for the same period in 2011. The decrease of approximately $1.3 million is primarily comprised of a decrease in salaries and operating expenses, as operations have been curtailed significantly in order to conserve cash. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was approximately $1.2 million compared to approximately $2.3 million for the same period in 2011. This decrease of approximately $1.1 million is directly associated with the amortization of debt discounts related to our convertible notes and is a non-cash item. Derivative gain (loss) For the three months ended March 31, 2012, we had a derivative gain of approximately $5.5 million compared to a derivative gain of approximately $2.4 million for the same period in 2011. This is a non-cash gain and is related to the valuation of certain derivative features included in certain of our warrants and convertible debt obligations, and included an anti-dilution provision related to shares issued in the TerraSphere acquisition. In addition, certain derivative instruments were issued and settled during the quarter, which impacted the derivative gain (loss). For the three months ended March 31, 2012, we had negative cash flows from operating activities of approximately $745,000, comprised of income from operations of approximately $3.0 million adjusted for certain non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, non-cash interest expense associated with the issuance of convertible debt, amortization of deferred financing fees, non-cash derivative gain and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses. We also had negative cash flows from investing activities of approximately $501,000, primarily related to our investment in stock of a private company. The negative cash flows from both operating and investing activities was offset by approximately $1.1 million in positive cash flows from financing activities comprised of proceeds from our various convertible debt transactions. The result of the above activities decreased our cash position by approximately $178,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. 23 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2011, we had negative cash flows from operating activities of approximately $2.3 million, comprised of loss from operations of approximately $1.8 million adjusted for certain non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization, non-cash interest expense associated with the issuance of convertible debt, amortization of deferred financing fees, non-cash derivative gain and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses. We also had negative cash flows from investing activities of approximately $737,000, primarily related to the purchase of fixed assets in our IWR segment The negative cash flows from both operating and investing activities was offset by approximately $795,000 in positive cash flows from financing activities comprising proceeds from our various debt and equity transactions offset by repayments of debt obligations. The result of the above activities decreased our cash position by approximately $2.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. Results of Discontinued Operations In 2010, the Company discontinued operations at its facility in Woodbridge, NJ. The following table summarizes the components of the loss from discontinued operations. For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Revenue from discontinued operations $ $ Loss from discontinued operations $ (278 ) $ (499 ) The Company does not expect to have any continuing positive cash flows from operations associated with the Woodbridge, NJ facility. The following table provides the assets and liabilities of the Woodbridge, NJ facility, classified as discontinued operations, in the consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011: March 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 Accounts payable $ 528,297 $ 528,377 Accrued expenses Other liabilities Liabilities of discontinued operations $ 528,297 $ 528,377 The Company is actively working with vendors to satisfy the liabilities outstanding at March 31, 2012. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our plan of operation is based in part upon the Companys unaudited interim consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, including the recoverability of tangible and intangible assets, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of expenses during the periods covered. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis. The most significant estimates relate to the recovery of long-lived intangible assets, the estimate of the fair value of consideration in business combinations, the fair value of financial instruments related to equity and debt transactions and estimations of valuation allowances. We base our estimates on historical Company and industry experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our unaudited interim consolidated financial statements are, by their nature, uncertain and unpredictable, and depend upon, among other things, many factors outside of our control, such as the results of our operations and other economic conditions. Accordingly, our estimates and judgments may prove to be incorrect and actual results may differ, perhaps significantly, from these estimates under different estimates, assumptions or conditions. The following is a brief discussion of our critical accounting policies and methods, and the judgments and estimates used by us in their application: Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when (i) persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, (ii) delivery of the product or service has occurred, (iii) the sales price is fixed or determinable, and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. 24 Table of Contents The Companys organic fertilizer operation generates revenues from two sources: product sales and tip fees. Product sales revenue comes from the sale of fertilizer products. Tip fee revenue is derived from waste haulers who pay the Company tip fees for accepting food waste generated by food distributors such as grocery stores, produce docks and fish markets, food processors and hospitality venues such as hotels, restaurants, convention centers and airports. The IWR operation could generate revenues by setting up treatment systems on customers sites and processing their wastewater on a price-per-gallon basis. The Companys vertical farming operation could generate revenues from licensing fees, and expects to also derive revenues from license royalties, the sale of equipment and sales from the operation of the Companys own growing facilities using the Companys patented technology. The Company grants exclusive licenses to use its proprietary vertical farming system (Growth System) for the remaining 15 year term of the associated patents. The licenses provide for (i) the payment of an initial license fee in installments over periods ranging from nine months to one year, and (ii) the payment of continuing royalties based on a percentage of the licensees sales, subject to an annual minimum. The licenses are generally not transferable without the permission of the Company. In order to grow plants using the technology granted by the license, the licensee will also be required to purchase equipment which incorporates the system, either from the Company or from a manufacturer licensed or contracted by the Company. The licenses are therefore part of a multi-element arrangement, for which revenue cannot be recognized until the delivered elements have stand alone value. The Company has determined that the elements delivered under these arrangements will have stand alone value at such time as the licensee has received both the license and the equipment, or the license and the Companys permission to resell the license. License fees received in cash or recorded as receivables due prior to the time the delivered elements have stand alone value are deferred as deferred revenue. In addition, some of the installment payments due under the licenses were deemed to not be reasonably assured of collection. Receivables for such installment payments are recorded as an asset offset by a valuation allowance. When payments of such installments are received, the related revenue is deferred if the elements delivered under that license do not yet have stand alone value. Share-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments exchanged for services in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Section 718 Compensation Stock Compensation (ASC 718) regarding share-based compensation. Under the provisions of ASC 718, share-based compensation issued to employees is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the grant). Share-based compensation issued to non-employees is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the consideration received or the fair value of the equity instruments issued, whichever is more readily measurable, and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period. Long-Lived Assets We account for our long-lived assets (excluding goodwill) in accordance with ASC Section 360 Property, Plant and Equipment (ASC 360), which requires that long-lived assets and certain intangible assets be reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, such as technological changes or significantly increased competition. If undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets, an impairment loss is to be recognized based on the fair value of the assets, calculated using an undiscounted cash flow model. There is inherent subjectivity and judgments involved in cash flow analyses such as estimating revenue and cost growth rates, residual or terminal values and discount rates, which can have a significant impact on the amount of any impairment. Derivative Instruments We account for derivative instruments in accordance with ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815), which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other financial instruments or contracts and requires recognition of all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. Accounting for changes in the fair value of derivative instruments depends on whether the derivatives qualify as hedge relationships and the types of relationships designated are based on the exposures hedged. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we did not have any derivative instruments that were designated as hedges. Discontinued Operations We discontinued the operations of our Woodbridge, NJ facility during the third quarter of 2010. Assets and liabilities related to the Woodbridge, NJ facility have been classified as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 and its operations have been classified as loss from discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. 25 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements Fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement. Therefore, a fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. As a basis for considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, ASC 820 Fair Value Measurements (ASC 820) establishes a fair value hierarchy that distinguishes between market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity (observable inputs that are classified within Levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy) and the reporting entitys own assumptions about market participant assumptions (unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy): Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access. Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs may include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, as well as inputs that are observable for the asset or liability (other than quoted prices), such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability which are typically based on an entitys own assumptions, as there is little, if any, related market activity. In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. Income Taxes We consider the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets to be a significant accounting estimate. In applying ASC 740 Income Taxes (ASC 740), management estimates future taxable income from operations and tax planning strategies in determining if it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefits of our deferred tax assets. Management believes the Company does not have any uncertain tax positions. Off-Balance Sheet Transactions We do not engage in material off-balance sheet transactions.