ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion includes forward-looking statements about the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations, including discussions about managements expectations for the business. These statements represent projections, beliefs and expectations based on current circumstances and conditions and in light of recent events and trends, and you should not construe these statements either as assurances of performance or as promises of a given course of action. Instead, various known and unknown factors are likely to cause actual performance and managements actions to vary, and the results of these variances may be both material and adverse. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. The following discussion should also be read in conjunction with the audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements, and unaudited condensed financial statements including the notes thereto, appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Effective as of June 3, 2013, the date the Company consummated the Merger and changed its name from Converted Organics, Inc. to Finjan Holdings, Inc., the Company operates two businesses, each of which constitutes a separate reportable segment. The two reportable segments include: the web and network security technology segment, which is operated through Finjan, and the organic fertilizer segment, which is operated through Converted Organics. The Company intends to carry on its web and network security technology business as its principal line of business. The Company is evaluating whether to continue the organic fertilizer business as currently conducted. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to operate the organic fertilizer business as previously operated or at all. Web and network Security Technology Segment The Company operates its web and network security business through Finjan. Through Finjan, the Company owns a portfolio of patents related to software that proactively detects malicious code and thereby protects end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other web and network threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan was one of the first companies to develop and patent technology that is capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers, which were previously standard in the web and network security industry. As the network, web and endpoint security industries have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, the Company believes that its technology is widely used by third parties. The Company intends to maximize the economic benefits of its technology through further licensing and to broaden its technology and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2009, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the licensing and enforcement of its patent rights. In April 2013, in preparation for the Merger, Finjan engaged Philip Hartstein and Shimon Steinmetz to serve as its President and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, pursuant to consulting agreements described elsewhere in this report. Prior to April 2013, Finjans sole executive officer was Daniel Chinn, serving as chief executive officer, who did not receive compensation for his services as an officer of Finjan. Messrs. Hartstein and Steinmetz were appointed as President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, respectively, upon the closing of the Merger. The Company intends to hire or engage additional full-time employees and/or consultants to pursue its growth strategy. Organic Fertilizer Segment The Company operates a processing facility in Gonzales, CA that uses food and agricultural waste as raw materials to manufacture organic fertilizer and soil amendment products combining nutritional and disease suppression characteristics for sale to the agribusiness market. The Gonzales, CA facility is the production facility that services the West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. This facility uses a proprietary technology and process known as High Temperature Liquid Composting, or HTLC , which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and food waste-based fertilizer and a limited amount of solids that could be further processed into a useable form for use in agriculture, retail, and professional turf markets. 21 Table of Contents Recent Developments Reverse Merger On June 3, 2013, the Company entered into the Merger Agreement with Finjan and consummated the Merger. Upon the closing of the Merger, the Company issued 245,604,624 shares of its common stock, or 91.5% of the issued and outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted basis, after giving effect to the Merger and the 1-for-500 reverse stock split described below (excluding any shares underlying the options to purchase up to an aggregate of 19,025,710 shares of common stock issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement), to the stockholders of Finjan immediately prior to the Merger (referred to as the former Finjan stockholders). In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) section 805, Business Combinations, Finjan is considered the accounting acquirer in the Merger. As such, the transaction was accounted for as a reverse business combination, because Finjans former stockholders received the greater portion of the voting rights in the combined entity and Finjans senior management represents all of the senior management of the combined entity. Consequently, the assets and liabilities and the historical operations that will be reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements will be those of Finjan and will be recorded at the historical cost basis of Finjan. Exchange Agreement On June 3, 2013, as a condition to the closing of the Merger, the Company entered into an Exchange Agreement with each of Hudson Bay and Iroquois, which were investors in the Company preceding the merger holding significant portions of the Companys common shares, preferred shares, warrants to acquire common shares, and convertible debt. Pursuant to the Exchange Agreement, immediately following the effectiveness of the Merger, each of Hudson Bay and Iroquois exchanged an aggregate of $1,192,500 principal amount of the Companys convertible notes, 13,281 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 633,327,047 shares of the Companys common stock for an aggregate of 21,473,628 shares of common stock, or 8% of the outstanding common stock immediately following the Merger. Each of Hudson Bay and Iroquois also released the Company, its affiliates, subsidiaries and related companies from any and all debts, liabilities and other claims with respect to such convertible notes, Series A Preferred Stock and warrants. Following the effectiveness of the Exchange Agreement, there are no outstanding securities convertible into the Companys common stock other than (i) options granted under the Amended and Restated Converted Organics 2006 Stock Option Plan, referred to as the 2006 Option Plan, the Converted Organics 2010 Omnibus Stock Compensation Plan, referred to as the 2010 Stock Compensation Plan, and the options issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement under the 2013 Option Plan, which are exercisable for an aggregate of 19,025,727 shares of common stock (including 19,025,710 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such options issued pursuant to the Merger Agreement), and (ii) Class C, Class D, and Class H warrants, which are exercisable for 1, 1, and 7 shares of common stock, respectively, after giving effect to reverse stock splits completed following the date of issuance of the applicable warrant, including the 1-for-500 reverse stock split described below, and subject to further adjustment in accordance with the terms of the applicable warrant. The 2013 Option Plan was approved by the Companys board of directors in connection with the Merger. 1-for-500 Reverse Stock Split In preparation for the Merger, effective as of 12:01 a.m. on June 3, 2013, the Company effected a 1-for-500 reverse stock split of its issued and outstanding shares of common stock, immediately following the effectiveness of which every 500 issued and outstanding shares of common stock automatically converted into one share of common stock. Any of the Companys shareholders that would otherwise have been entitled to a fraction of a share of common stock (after aggregating all fractional shares of its common stock to be received by such holder) as a result of the 1-for-500 reverse stock split, received an additional share of common stock (i.e., the aggregate number of shares of common stock of a shareholder resulting from the 1-for-500 reverse stock split was rounded up to the nearest whole number). The 1-for-500 reverse stock split did not affect the number of shares of capital stock that are authorized to be issued or the par value of the common stock. The 1-for-500 reverse stock split was approved by the shareholders on June 8, 2012. 22 Table of Contents 1-for-12 Reverse Stock Split On June 5, 2013, the board of directors approved an amendment to the Companys certificate of Incorporation to effect a 1-for-12 reverse stock split of its issued and outstanding shares of common stock, immediately following the effectiveness of which every 12 issued and outstanding shares of common stock automatically converted into one share of common stock. The amendment to the Companys certificate of Incorporation was approved by written consent of the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock as the Company delivered to the Company on July 5, 2013. The amendment will become effective upon the filing of a Certificate of Amendment with the Secretary of State of the State of State of Delaware, which will occur in as few as 20 calendar days as in the initial mailing of an Information Statement to shareholders, or on or about August 21, 2013. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based on the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, management evaluates estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those related to intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that it believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and revenue recognition. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Intangible Assets Intangible assets acquired individually, with a group of other assets, or in a business combination, are recorded at fair value. The Companys identifiable intangible assets are comprised of customer relationships acquired as part of the Merger. The fair value of intangible assets acquired is generally determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. Identifiable intangible assets are being amortized over the period of estimated benefit using the straight-line method, which approximates the customer attrition rate, reflecting the pattern of economic benefits associated with these assets, and have estimated useful lives of six years. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for compensation cost for all employee stock-based awards at their fair values on the date of grant, and non-employee stock-based awards at their fair values as measured on their vesting dates. The fair value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the straight-line method for share options and restricted stock. The Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of its stock-based awards. Income Taxes The Company utilizes the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes, under which deferred taxes are determined based on the temporary differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse and for operating losses and tax credit carry-forwards. The Company is required to evaluate the realizability of its deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis to determine whether there is a need for a valuation allowance with respect to such deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance is recorded when it is more likely than not that some of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Significant management judgment is required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In evaluating the ability to recover deferred tax assets, the Company considered available positive and negative evidence giving greater weight to its recent cumulative losses and its ability to carryback losses against prior taxable income and lesser weight to its projected financial results. The Company also considered the forecast of future taxable income including the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. The Company accounts for uncertainty in income taxes using a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. The Company classifies the liability for unrecognized tax benefits as current to the extent that the Company anticipates payment (or receipt) of cash within one year. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in the provision for income taxes. 23 Table of Contents Comparability to Future Results Set forth below are selected factors believed to have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of the Companys recent or future results. Fluctuation of Revenue and Expenses Related to Enforcement The Company expects revenue and expenses related to patent enforcement to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond the Companys control, may affect the timing and amount of revenues related to patent enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of the claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and the Companys ability to collect on any favorable judgments. The Company does not recognize revenue from enforcement actions until the proceeds of litigation are received (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). The Companys expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of patent enforcement litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. Public Company Expenses As a result of the Merger, Finjan became a subsidiary of a public company, and management anticipates that it will make an application to list the Companys shares for trading on a national securities exchange, once the relevant quantitative listing criteria are satisfied. The historical operating results of Finjan, as a private company, that are reflected in the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements do not reflect certain expenses that the Company incurs, and will continue to incur, as a public company. The Company expects that selling, general and administrative expenses will increase as it pays legal counsel and accountants to assist in, among other things, establishing and maintaining more comprehensive compliance and governance functions, establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and preparing and distributing periodic public reports under the federal securities laws with respect to the business the Company operates through Finjan. The Company may also incur additional costs associated with compensation of non-employee directors and expect to incur costs associated with the retention of full-time employees and consultants. In addition, the Company expects that as part of a public company the cost of director and officer liability insurance will increase compared to costs incurred by Finjan prior to the Merger. Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, Finjan did not grant any options, restricted stock or other equity based compensation. Prior to the Merger, Finjan had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 77 shares of Finjan common stock, all of which were awarded in May 2013 and were converted into options to purchase an aggregate of 19,025,710 shares of the Companys common stock pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Following the Merger, the Companys board of directors adopted the Finjan Holdings, Inc. 2013 Global Share Option Plan (the 2013 Option Plan) and the Converted Organics 2010 Omnibus Stock Compensation Plan (the 2010 Plan) also remains in effect. In addition, although the 2010 Plan replaced the 2006 Option Plan and no additional options will be issued under the 2006 Option Plan, the Company reserved the right to issue new options pursuant to the 2006 Option Plan to the extent that, and in the amount of, any outstanding options are forfeited under that plan. The Company does not intend to issue additional options under either the 2010 Plan or the 2006 Option Plan, and expect that future equity-based awards will be made under the 2013 Option Plan or other equity, incentive compensation or similar plans that the Company may adopt in the future, to directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, Finjan may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods. In April 2013, Finjan engaged its President and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to consulting agreements. These officers have since become full time employees. Furthermore, the Company intends to hire additional employees and/or consultants in the future to expand its business. Accordingly, the Company will incur compensation expenses in future periods that Finjan did not incur during the period prior to the Merger presented in its financial statements. 24 Table of Contents Finjan Reorganization Until May 2, 2013, Finjan was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finjan Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation, referred to as FSI. In February 2013, Finjan distributed securities of two unaffiliated entities which it previously held to FSI, and made a payment of cash in an amount sufficient to repay and satisfy in full an intercompany loan from FSI to Finjan. Following that distribution, the board of directors and stockholders of FSI approved the dissolution of, and a plan of liquidation for, FSI that resulted in, among other things, the distribution of Finjan common stock to certain of FSIs stockholders, each of whom received shares of the Companys common stock in the Merger. Recent Financing Activities Prior to the Merger Prior to the Merger, Converted Organics, Inc.s operations were financed primarily by the issuance of debt, equity and equity-linked securities. In connection with the Merger, the Company redeemed, cancelled or otherwise retired all of the notes and derivative securities previously issued by Converted Organics, Inc., other than warrants that are exercisable for a de minimis number of shares of common stock. See Recent Developments Exchange Agreement above. Although the Company may require financing in the future, management expects that its cash on hand will be sufficient to satisfy its cash needs for at least the next twelve months. Results of Operations The following table presents the results of operations for three and six months ended June 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively: Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Revenues: Web and network security technology $ 1,000 $ 3,116 $ 1,000 $ 3,116 Organic fertilizer 198 198 Total revenues 1,198 3,116 1,198 3,116 Cost of revenues: Web and network security technology 39 2,929 405 2,929 Organic fertilizer 148 148 Total cost of revenues 187 2,929 553 2,929 Gross profit 1,011 187 645 187 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 1,719 101 1,934 271 Transaction costs 525 790 Total operating expense 2,244 101 2,724 271 Income (loss) from operations (1,233 ) 86 (2,079 ) (84 ) Other income , net: Interest income 31 56 111 117 Other expense 17 17 Total other income , net 48 56 128 117 Net income (loss) before provision for income taxes (1,185 ) 142 (1,951 ) 33 Income tax expense 7 7 Net income (loss) $ (1,192 ) $ 142 $ (1,958 ) $ 33 (1) Subsequent to the completion of the Merger on June 3, 2013, the financial results include the financial results of the Converted Organics business. The historical financial statements of Finjan, Inc. are included in the comparative prior period. In the three and six months ended June 30, 2013, total revenue decreased by $1.9 million or 61.6%, as compared to the same period of 2012. This decrease was due to the one time recognition in April 2012 of $3.1 million in revenue related to 224,000 shares in an unaffiliated entitys common stock received in exchange for modifying an original perpetual license agreement. This decrease was partially offset by revenue related to the receipt of the second installment payment of $1.0 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2013, associated with a licensing agreement and by the addition of organic fertilizer revenue aggregating $198,000 from Converted Organics after the Merger. The remaining amounts due under the litigation settlement will be recognized when payment is received, as collectability is not reasonably assured. 25 Table of Contents Cost of goods sold include legal and litigation support costs associated with executing the Companys strategy of licensing and protecting its web and network security technology patent portfolio, and production and material costs incurred by the Companys organic fertilizer business after the Merger date. In the three and six months ended June 30, 2013, cost of goods sold decreased by $2.7 million or 93.6%, and $2.4 million or 81.1%, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2012. Cost of sales for the web and network security business decreased due to lower net level of litigation support, third party technical consulting and professional expert expenses incurred. The decreases in total cost of sales were partially offset by the addition of cost of goods sold recorded by the Companys Converted Organics business for the period subsequent to the Merger of $0.4 million. The Companys operating expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation, consulting and other professional fees, and transaction costs associated with the Merger. In the three and six months ended June 30, 2013, total operating expenses increased by $2.1 million and $2.5 million, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2012. These increased costs were primarily due to employee and contractor compensation costs, reflecting the increased staff levels, along with professional fees incurred in connection with the Merger and evaluation of other strategic alternatives. The Merger in June 2013 was accounted for as a business combination. As a result, the associated consideration was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on managements estimate of fair value using the information available at the date of the Merger. The excess of purchase price over the fair value amounts assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed represents goodwill from the acquisition. Interest income decreased due to the lower average cash balance on hand in during the 2013 periods compared to the same periods of 2012. Income tax expense increased in the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 by $7,000 due to limited cumulative taxable operations of the Company in certain local jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview The Companys cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. The Company expects to continue to devote significant capital resources to the litigation in process and any other litigation it pursues. The Company also expects to require significant capital resources to maintain its issued patents, prosecute its patent applications, and acquire new technologies as part of its growth strategy and to attract and retain qualified personnel on a full time basis. The Companys primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally proceeds from settlements and judgments in connection with its patent enforcement activities. Based on current forecasts and assumptions, management believes that its cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet its anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. The Company may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete its capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. Even without such difficulties, the Company may seek to raise additional capital to grow its business. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption since late 2007, and the volatility and impact of the disruption has continued into 2013. At times during this period, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In several cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers, and there can be no assurance that the Company will have access to short-term financing. If the Company fails to obtain additional funding when needed, it may not be able to execute its business plans and its business may suffer. The Company had approximately $28.5 million dollars of cash and cash equivalents, and $28.0 million of working capital, on a consolidated basis as of June 30, 2013. Also as of June 30, 2013, The Companys current liabilities were approximately $1.2 million. Our Converted Organics subsidiary does not have funds to build additional facilities and we have no plans to raise such funds or allocate funds generated from our web and network security technology business for that purpose. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Finjans net cash used in operating activities increased by $25.5 million to $29.4 million during the six months ended June 30, 2013 as compared to the same period in 2012. This increase was primarily attributable to the payment of accrued income taxes in the six months ended June 30, 2013. 26 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2013, cash flow from investing activities was approximately $570,000, as compared to $1.6 million in cash used by investing activities during the comparable period in 2012. The principal source of cash in the six months ended June 30, 2013 was the proceeds from notes receivable and cash acquired through the Merger. Cash used in investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2012 related to purchase of preferred stock in an unaffiliated third party, which securities were distributed to FSI during the second quarter of 2013. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2013, Finjan used approximately $34.1 million in financing activities, as compared to $1.3 million in cash used in financing activities during the comparable period in 2012. The increase in cash used in financing activities was attributable to a loan repayment of $33.9 million made to Finjans former parent in the February 2013 along with the repurchase of common stock for $204,000. In the six months ended June 30, 2012, the only financing activities were payments of $1.3 million to the former parent entity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In July 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2013-11, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists (ASU 2013-11). ASU 2013-11 clarifies guidance and eliminates diversity in practice on the presentation of unrecognized tax benefits when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists at the reporting date. This new guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2013 and subsequent interim periods. The standard is not effective until on or after December 15, 2013 and early adoption is not mandatory. The Company is assessing the effect the adoption of the standard will have on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows for subsequent reporting periods.