Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated interim financial statements and related notes to the consolidated interim financial statements included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that relate to future events or our future financial performance. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our current expectations and are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks including the Risk Factors identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Converted Organics Inc. is sometimes referred to herein as we, us, our and the Company. Introduction Our operating structure is composed of our parent company, Converted Organics Inc., three wholly-owned operating subsidiaries, a newly formed wholly-owned subsidiary, TerraSphere Inc. and a 92.5% owned non-operating subsidiary. The first operating subsidiary is Converted Organics of Woodbridge, LLC, which includes the operation of our Woodbridge, New Jersey facility. The second operating subsidiary is Converted Organics of California, LLC, which includes the operation of our Gonzales, California facility. The third operating subsidiary is Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC (Converted Organics of Mississippi), a Mississippi limited liability company, established for the purpose of adding a poultry litter-based fertilizer product to the Companys existing product lines. On May 20, 2010, the Company formed TerraSphere Inc. (TerraSphere Inc), a Delaware corporation, to acquire TerraSphere Systems LLC, subject to approval of our shareholders at a special meeting to be held on August 31, 2010. The 92.5% owned subsidiary is Converted Organics of Rhode Island, LLC (Converted Organics of RI), which currently has no operating activity. On February 25, 2010, the Company signed a letter of intent with the non-controlling member in Converted Organics of RI to sell substantially all of the assets and a limited select amount of liabilities of Converted Organics of RI. We construct and operate processing facilities that use food waste as raw material to manufacture all-natural fertilizer and soil amendment products combining nutritional and disease suppression characteristics. In addition, we have sales of a poultry litter based fertilizer product. We have current sales in the agribusiness, retail and turf management markets. We also hope to achieve additional revenue by licensing the use of our technology to others. Converted Organics of California, LLC Gonzales Facility The Gonzales facility is a state-of-the-art production facility that services a strong West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. This facility uses our proprietary technology and process known as the High Temperature Liquid Composting, or HTLC, system, which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and solid food waste-based fertilizer and feed products. The Gonzales facility began to generate positive cash flow in June 2009 and has continued to through June 2010. In the six month period ending June 30, 2010, the Gonzales facility generated revenues of $1,722,000 and a positive gross margin of $422,000, or 25% (based on no allocation of corporate overhead). We plan to continue to improve this operating margin by channeling sales into the turf and retail markets, by generating tip fees from receiving additional quantities of food processing waste and by reducing the amount of raw material and freight costs currently associated with the production process. We estimate that the plant in its current configuration, and based on current market prices, has the capacity to generate monthly sales in the range of $350,000 to $400,000. In addition, we have plans to add capacity to the Gonzales plant, whereby the plant will be able to produce approximately three times its current production and will be capable of producing both liquid and solid products. We have completed certain aspects of the planned upgrades which allow us to receive solid food waste for processing but have delayed the upgrades which would allow us to produce dry product. The remaining upgrades have been delayed due to a lack in market demand for a dry product within the area the Gonzales facility serves. Because we will have to obtain the proper building permits for continued expansion, further development of the Gonzales facility will be delayed until further market research is completed and those permits are obtained. Converted Organics of Woodbridge, LLC Woodbridge Facility The Woodbridge facility is our first internally constructed waste conversion facility. We have the ability to produce both liquid and dry product at the facility. We have two revenue streams: (1) tip fees that in our potential markets range from $25 to $80 per ton, and (2) product sales. Tip fees are paid to us to receive the food waste stream from waste haulers; the hauler pays us, instead of a landfill, to take the waste. If the haulers source, separate and pay in advance, they are charged tip fees that are up to 20% below 15 Table of Contents market. In the first six months of 2010, we recorded tip fees and product sales revenue of approximately $728,000. During the first six months of 2010, we generated revenue from this facility in the form of tip fees of approximately $70,000 and product sales of approximately $658,000. In order for this facility to be cash flow positive, we estimate that sales would need to be in a range of $450,000 to $550,000 per month. We estimate that the product can be sold in the range of $400 to $700 per ton based on the market to which it is sold. Based on the above, we would have to produce and sell approximately 45-55% of the capacity of the Woodbridge facility to be cash flow positive. As of the date of filing, we have not achieved 45-55% of capacity and therefore, have begun implementing a plan to reduce costs and restructure the debt of the Woodbridge facility. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for more information. Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC On January 26, 2010, the Company formed Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC, a Mississippi limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, for the purpose of adding a poultry litter-based fertilizer product to our existing product lines. The Company has outsourced production of this new product line. From the date of inception through June 30, 2010, Converted Organics of Mississippi, LLC recorded product sales revenue of approximately $235,000. To date, the sales of this product have not met our original estimates and we are evaluating the continuation of this product line. TerraSphere Inc. On May 20, 2010, the Company formed TerraSphere Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, for the purpose of acquiring TerraSphere Systems LLC (TerraSphere). On July 6, 2010, a membership interest purchase agreement was entered into by the Company, TerraSphere Inc., TerraSphere and the members of TerraSphere, pursuant to which the Company agreed to acquire 100% of the membership interest of TerraSphere. The maximum total purchase price for TerraSphere is estimated to be $25,830,000, which includes earn-out payments of up to $11,040,000, payable solely in shares of the Companys common stock valued at $0.756 per share. Pursuant to the purchase agreement, if the acquisition is approved by the Companys stockholders, the Company will issue up to 34,166,667 shares of its common stock to the members of TerraSphere in exchange for 100% of the units of TerraSphere, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. Of these shares, 19,563,492 shares will be issued at the closing of the acquisition, and the remainder of the shares will be issued if TerraSphere achieves certain milestones. Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, TerraSphere would become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. TerraSphere designs, builds and operates highly efficient and scalable systems, featuring a patented, proprietary technology that utilizes vertically-stacked modules to house rows of plants, which are then placed perpendicular to an interior light source to grow pesticide-free, organic fruits and vegetables. Due to a controlled, indoor environment, the system generates fresh produce year-round in any location or climate world-wide. We believe the acquisition of TerraSphere will expand our portfolio of sustainable, environmentally-friendly businesses, and will provide us with an immediate revenue stream. Industrial Wastewater Resources Division On March 23, 2010, we entered into a loan and license agreement with Heartland Technology Partners, LLC (HTP). The loan agreement requires the Company to advance $500,000 to HTP in three monthly installments that commenced upon signing of the loan. The outstanding principal balance of the loan is due if either a change of control of HTP or the completion by HTP of a financing in excess of $10 million occurs on or before June 30, 2012. In consideration for entering the loan agreement, the Company was granted an exclusive, irrevocable license to utilize HTPs patented LM-HT Concentrator technology in the U.S. industrial wastewater (IWW) market. The IWW market involves the treatment of waters that have been contaminated by anthropogenic industrial or commercial activities, prior to their reuse or release into the environment. A breakthrough wastewater treatment process, the LM-HT Concentrator reduces carbon emissions compared to traditional technologies by using waste heat and renewable energy as thermal fuel. In addition, we have hired a senior executive in the waste water processing industry and have begun to develop plans to operate our Industrial Wastewater Resources division. On July 30, 2010, we signed a letter of intent with Spirit Services, Inc. to jointly develop an energy and IWW treatment facility using our exclusively licensed technology to evaporate IWW at a facility in South Boston, Virginia. Recent Financing Activities On April 20, 2010, we entered into an agreement with a single institutional investor, pursuant to which we issued to the investor: (a) 2,400,000 shares of common stock and (b) a five-year warrant to purchase 1,163,362 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.06 per share. The warrant may be exercised at any time on or following a date one year after the date of issuance and expires 16 Table of Contents five years from the date of issuance. The transaction closed on April 22, 2010 and provided the Company with net proceeds of approximately $2.4 million. Future Development Our long-term strategic plan calls for growth of our organic fertilizer business as well as expansion of our portfolio of sustainable, environmentally-friendly businesses. To grow our existing fertilizer business, we plan to develop and license additional organic fertilizer manufacturing facilities and expand the capacity of our Gonzales facility. In connection with the plan for additional facilities, we have completed preliminary work aimed at establishing facilities in Massachusetts, where we have performed initial development work in connection with construction of three manufacturing facilities to serve the eastern Massachusetts market. Two of our proposals to develop facilities are currently under review by the property owners. The third proposal has evolved into the MassOrgnaics I transaction described below. The Massachusetts Strategic Envirotechnology Partnership Program has completed a review of our technology. In connection with our plan to expand the capacity of our Gonzales facility, we plan to increase production to approximately three times the facilitys current production and to expand the capability of the plant to have the ability to produce both liquid and solid products. We also plan to strengthen our green technology portfolio by completing the TerraSphere acquisition and growing our Industrial Wastewater Resources Division. Through the TerraSphere acquisition, we will expand our business into the market of building highly efficient systems for growing pesticide-free, organics fruits and vegetables in controlled indoor environments. TerraSphere will provide us with an immediate revenue stream and its clean technology helps to promote the sustainable consumption of natural resources by accelerating plan production and maximizing crop yields, while improving environmental footprints through the reduction of carbon emissions and fuel use associated with traditional crop production and distribution. Also, we will continue to grow our Industrial Wastewater Resources Division by working to form industry and/or project-based partnerships that utilize our exclusively licensed technology to treat industrial wastewaters. In addition to the above listed growth opportunities, we have also initiated a restructuring plan for the Woodbridge facility under which we are working with creditors to restructure or eliminate debt and lease payments to reduce costs associated with that facility. As a result of this restructuring plan, we hope to evaluate the revised cost structure and projected revenue from the Woodbridge facility. As of the date of this report, we have not completed that evaluation, however plan to continue with it in order to determine the extent of savings available to us from this restructuring. We have developed smaller capacity operating units, namely the Scalable Modular AeRobic Technology (SMART) units, that are suitable for processing 5 to 50 tons of waste per day, depending on owner/user preference. The semi-portable units are capable of operating indoors or outdoors and may be as sophisticated or as basic in design and function as the owner/user requires. The SMART units will be delivered to jobsites in pre-assembled, pre-tested components, and will include a license to use the HTLC technology. Our target market is users who seek to address waste problems on a smaller scale than would be addressed by a large processing facility. Our plan contemplates that purchasers of the SMART units would receive tip fees for accepting waste and would sell fertilizer and soil amendment products in the markets where their units operate. We plan to market and sell the SMART units in both the United States and abroad. We have also begun the development of a licensing program, under which we will license to third parties, the right to use our proprietary technology. The licensing program consists of a know-how license, which could be complemented with SMART unit sales so that any individual or entity buying a SMART unit would also receive a license agreement to use our technology. We are working to patent our process and technology and anticipate that we will expand upon the licensing program when the necessary patent registrations are achieved. We are currently in negotiations with MassOrganics I, LLC (MassOrganics I) regarding the use of Converted Organics proprietary technology for the manufacture of organic fertilizer products. On January 25, 2010, we signed a memorandum of understanding under which MassOrganics I would install and operate the system at a new manufacturing facility to be constructed at The Sutton Commerce Park in Sutton, Massachusetts. MassOrganics I has agreed to enter into a licensing agreement under which MassOrganics I will pay a licensing fee to Converted Organics. Trends and Uncertainties Affecting our Operations We are subject to a number of factors that may affect our operations and financial performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the available supply and price of organic food waste, the market for liquid and solid organic fertilizer, increasing energy costs, the unpredictable cost of compliance with environmental and other government regulation, and the time and cost of obtaining USDA, state or other product labeling designations. Demand for organic fertilizer and the resulting prices customers are willing to pay also may not be as high as our market studies suggest. In addition, supply of organic fertilizer products from the use of other 17 Table of Contents technologies or other competitors may adversely affect our selling prices and consequently our overall profitability. Furthermore our plan calls for raising additional debt and/or equity financing to construct additional operating facilities. Currently there has been a slowdown in lending in both the equity and bond markets which may hinder our ability to raise the required funds. Liquidity and Capital Resources At June 30, 2010, we had total current assets of approximately $5.3 million consisting primarily of cash, accounts receivable, inventories and prepaid assets, and had current liabilities of approximately $5.8 million, consisting primarily of accounts payable, accrued expenses and notes payable, leaving us with a negative working capital of approximately $500,000. Non-current assets totaled $22.4 million and consisted primarily of property and equipment, intangible assets and deposits. Non-current liabilities of approximately $19.7 million consist primarily of bonds payable of $17.5 million and a $2.1 million derivative liability. We have an accumulated deficit at June 30, 2010 of approximately $59.6 million. Shareholders equity at June 30, 2010 was approximately $2.2 million. During the six month period ended June 30, 2010, we used approximately $8.7 million in cash on hand. The significant cash expenditures during the first six months of 2010 were as follows: $ 1,435,000 to fund future revenue generating activities, including the purchase of chicken litter-based fertilizer product ($615,000), a deposit for a license to treat Industrial Wastewater ($500,000) and to fund capital equipment purchases ($320,000). $ 1,400,000 to repay debt principal and interest on term notes. $ 1,400,000 to reduce accounts payable and accruals. $ 4,465,000 to fund ongoing operations during the first six months of 2010, including $600,000 of marketing costs to implement a formal marketing program. On July 30, 2010 we announced that we reduced our work force by 50% which included employees at the corporate level and the Woodbridge facility. We expect those salary reductions to save approximately $2.1 million over the next twelve months. In addition, we are working with creditors to restructure or eliminate debt and lease payments to reduce costs as much as possible in order to evaluate the revised cost structure and projected revenue from the Woodbridge facility. We have not completed that evaluation and therefore have not determined the extent of savings available to us from this restructuring. To facilitate the evaluation, we have temporarily halted production at our Woodbridge facility until we complete the evaluation. As of the date of filing this report, we have been granted forbearance of principal payments on certain contractor notes payable, but have not reached agreement with the holder of the New Jersey Economic Development Bonds and we have not made approximately $234,000 of required interest payments on that debt. In addition, we did not make certain payments on our lease obligations to the Woodbridge facility landlord. We currently have manufacturing capabilities at our Gonzales facility. The Gonzales facility is cash flow positive and has additional production capacity. We are focusing our current sales efforts on taking advantage of the additional production capacity. Previously, we estimated our negative cash flow requirements on a monthly basis were approximately $400,000 at the corporate level and $500,000 for Woodbridge. We estimate that the current cost reduction efforts will lower the monthly cash flow requirements at the corporate level to $200,000. We do not have a final estimate on the revised cash flow requirements for the Woodbridge facility and will not have such until the current restructure negotiations are completed. If we are unable to increase sales levels at Gonzales and if the current plans to restructure certain costs and expenses are not successful, then we will need to seek additional financing. On July 6, 2010 we reached an agreement to acquire TerraSphere Systems LLC. The transaction is subject to approval by our shareholders at a meeting currently scheduled for August 31, 2010. If the transaction is approved and if all the closing conditions are met, including a condition that we renegotiate the terms of our debt obligations in connection with the operations in New Jersey, then we anticipate there will be cash available to the company from the acquired entity. The amount of cash that will be available is uncertain. However, any amount available to the company would reduce any amounts that otherwise may be needed to be raised through a financing. On April 20, 2010, we raised net proceeds of $2.4 million by through the issuance of (a) 2,400,000 shares of common stock and (b) a five-year warrant to purchase 1,163,362 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.06 per share. We previously disclosed 18 Table of Contents that we believed the funds received through our secondary public offering of 17,250,000 units which raised $16.4 million after expenses and the April 2010 financing would be sufficient to operate our current business until we were cash flow positive assuming we achieved our desired production capacity and sales levels and assuming we did not encounter additional costs or expenses, either unforeseen or through any proposed mergers and/or acquisitions. To date, we have not achieved the desired sales levels relating to the liquid product produced at our Woodbridge facility and the chicken litter based fertilizer product that we contracted to sell. Therefore, we may require additional financing prior to achieving cash flow from operations for which we have no commitments. On July 2, 2010, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 to register $75,000,000 of our common stock, which was declared effective on July 15, 2010. There is no assurance that capital in any form would be available to us, and if available, on terms and conditions that are acceptable. Moreover, we are not permitted to borrow any future funds unless we obtain the consent of the holders of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority bonds. We have obtained such consent for prior financing, but there is no guarantee that we can obtain such consent in the future. Results of Operations Sales The Companys sales increased $834,000 or 84%, and $1,201,000 or 81% for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2010, respectively, compared to the same periods ended June 30, 2009. The Company attributes its significant growth to the Companys targeted marketing efforts, and to the increasing recognition nationwide regarding the importance of using organic fertilizer products for lawncare, professional turf, and agricultural applications. The Companys sales by location were as follows: For the three months ended June 30 For the six months ended June 30 Location 2010 2009 Change 2010 2009 Change Gonzales, CA $ 1,127,000 $ 809,000 $ 318,000 $ 1,722,000 $ 1,079,000 $ 615,000 Woodbridge, NJ 580,000 155,000 425,000 728,000 377,000 351,000 Mississippi 118,000 n/a 118,000 235,000 n/a 235,000 Sales at the Gonzales facility increased $318,000 or 39% and $615,000 or 57% for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2010 compared to the same periods ended June 30, 2009. Sales at the Woodbridge facility increased $425,000 or 274% and $351,000 or 93% for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2010 compared to the same periods ended June 30, 2009. Since its inception on January 26, 2010, Mississippi has generated sales of $235,000. Cost of Sales For the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2010 cost of goods sold increased approximately $1.1 million and $1.4 million, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2009. The Companys cost of goods sold by location were as follows: For the three months ended June 30 For the six months ended June 30 Location 2010 2009 Change 2010 2009 Change Gonzales, CA $ 801,000 $ 741,000 $ 60,000 $ 1,299,000 $ 1,156,000 $ 143,000 Woodbridge, NJ 2,367,000 1,336,000 1,031,000 3,768,000 2,592,000 1,176,000 Mississippi 71,000 n/a 71,000 138,000 n/a 138,000 Cost of goods sold at the Gonzales facility increased 8% and 12% for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2010 compared to the same periods ended June 30, 2009 due to an increase in raw materials used to meet increase sales demand while the current level of fixed costs remained relatively unchanged. The Gonzales facility generated a 25% gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2010 compared to a negative gross margin in the same period in 2009. Cost of goods sold at the Woodbridge facility increased $1,031,000 or 77% and $1,176,000 or 45% for three and six month periods ended June 30, 2010 compared to the same periods ended June 30, 2009 due to assets placed in service and depreciated and an 19 Table of Contents increase in waste disposal costs due to an increase in sales and higher waste disposal charges. The Woodbridge facility continues to generate a negative gross margin due to sales not meeting the volume required to cover all fixed costs associated with the facility. Mississippi generated a gross margin of 42% on sales of $235,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2010. General and Administrative Expenses General and Administrative expenses for the three month periods ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 remained flat. The approximately $2.4 million increase in general and administrative expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 is composed of increases related to compensation expense related to the issuance of stock options and restricted shares of $1.4 million along with an increase in marketing costs of approximately $600,000. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased approximately $1.7 million or 82% and $3.2 million or 80% for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2010, respectively, compared to the same periods ended June 30, 2009. The increases in 2009 were due to interest expense associated with the issuance of warrants and interest recognized in connection with borrowing transactions, primarily non-cash items. The interest expense for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2010 was primarily the interest on the NJ EDA bonds. Derivative gain (loss) We recognized derivative gains of approximately $1,134,000 and $499,000 in the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2010, respectively. These gains are non-cash in nature and represent mark-to-market adjustments due to changes in fair value. Critical Accounting Policies Use of Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Accounts Receivables Accounts receivable represents balances due from customers, net of applicable reserves for doubtful accounts. In determining the need for an allowance, objective evidence that a single receivable is uncollectible, as well as historical collection patterns for accounts receivable are considered at each balance sheet date. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined by the first in, first out basis. Inventories consist primarily of raw materials and finished goods, which consist of soil amendment products. Inventory balances are presented net of applicable reserves. Intangible Assets The Company accounts for its intangible assets in accordance with ASC section 350. The standard requires that intangible assets with finite lives, such as the Companys license, be capitalized and amortized over their respective estimated lives and reviewed for impairment whenever events or other changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Derivative Instruments The Company accounts for derivative instruments in accordance with ASC 815, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other financial instruments or contracts and requires recognition of all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value, regardless of the hedging relationship designation. Accounting for changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments depends on whether the derivatives qualify as hedge relationships and the types of relationships designated are based on the exposures hedged. Revenue Recognition 20 Table of Contents Revenue is recognized when each of the following criteria is met: persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; delivery of the product has occurred; the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. In those cases where all four criteria are not met, the Company defers recognition of revenue until the period these criteria are satisfied. Revenue is generally recognized upon shipment. Share Based Compensation The Company accounts for share based compensation paid to employees in accordance with ASC 718. Under the provisions of the guidance, share-based compensation issued to employees is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the grant). The Company accounts for share based compensation issued to non-employees in accordance with ASC 505. Under the provisions of the guidance, such compensation is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the equity instruments issued and is recognized as an expense over the requisite service period. Off-Balance Sheet Transactions We do not engage in material off-balance sheet transactions.