Item 2. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following discussion includes forward-looking statements about the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations, including discussions about managements expectations for the business. These statements include statements regarding our expectations, intentions, beliefs and projections about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts or by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, potential, should, will, will be, would, and the negative of these terms and similar expressions, but this is not an exclusive way of identifying such statements. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Our actual results, performance and achievements may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, without limitation, our ability to execute our business plan, the outcome of pending or future enforcement actions, our ability to expand our technology portfolio, the enforceability of our patents, the continued use of our technologies in the market, the development or continuation of a liquid trading market for our securities, regulatory developments and other factors described under Item 1A. Risk Factors, as set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 and any subsequent quarterly or current reports. The following discussion should also be read in conjunction with the audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, as set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 and any subsequent quarterly or current reports. The Company will continue to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the dates specified in such filings. Except as expressly required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after any such date, whether as a result of new information or future events or otherwise. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this report or that may be made elsewhere from time to time by us, or on our behalf. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Overview As of December 4, 2014, we operate in a single segment, our web and network cybersecurity technology business, which we operate through Finjan. On December 4, 2014, we sold our organic fertilizer business, and as a result, it was reclassified and presented as discontinued operations in this quarterly filing. Web and Network Security Technology Business We operate our web and network cybersecurity business through our subsidiary, Finjan. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents related to software and hardware technologies that proactively detect malicious code and thereby protect end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other web and network threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented technologies that are capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based, basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers, which were standard in the web and network cybersecurity industry during the 1990s. As the network, web and endpoint cybersecurity industries have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that our technologies are widely used by third parties. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of our technologies through further licensing and broaden our technologies and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. As a core element of our continued patent licensing and enforcement business, our management team, having expertise with technology and IP monetization, monitors a number of markets and assesses and observes the adoption of our patented technologies in these markets. Our management team, in conjunction with outside legal, technical, and financial experts, concludes on a case-by-case basis whether or not they believe that Finjans patented technologies are being used. Based on these observations, we continue to believe our patented technologies are highly relevant in specific cybersecurity technology areas including, but not limited to, endpoint/cloud software, web gateway/internet infrastructure, and networking equipment markets. From that basis, the Company pursues unlicensed entities through licensing, assertion of claims or both to preserve the value of our portfolio in general. This also reinforces the value to existing licensees of the Finjan patent portfolio. 11 Table of Contents Since the sale of our hardware and software operations in 2008, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the enforcement of our patent rights against unauthorized use and, to a lesser extent, income derived from intellectual property licenses granted to third parties for the use of patented technologies that are owned by Finjan. Finjans operating expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses. Finjan did not have any full-time employees from 2009 until the middle of 2013. Instead, Finjan relied on outside legal counsel, technology consultants and other professionals to support operations during that period, some of which are former investors and executives of Finjan. Accordingly, Finjans general and administrative expenses consisted primarily of legal fees and other expenses paid to third-party consultants. As of March 31, 2015, we have approximately twelve employees, and we intend to hire or engage additional full-time professionals, employees, and/or consultants in alignment with our growth strategy. Although the market is highly competitive for attracting and retaining highly qualified professionals in our industry, we continue our endeavor to find such candidates for our Company. Our management team and additional personnel that we may hire in the future will be primarily responsible for executing and implementing our licensing and enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and enforcement opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing technologies and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. Discontinued Operations On December 4, 2014, we sold Converted Organics, and as a result, we no longer operate an organic fertilizer business. The results of operations of Converted Organics have been included in the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereof as discontinued operations. Accordingly, we have reported the results of operations of converted Organics as discontinued operations and reclassified the consolidated statements of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2014. In order to reflect the change in the composition of the Companys segments, such reclassification did not have an impact on previously reported net loss or net loss per share, total equity and total assets. Recent Developments Licensing Subsequent to March 31, 2015 on April 7, 2015, Finjan entered into a Confidential Asset Purchase and Patent License Agreement, effective as of April 7, 2015, with F-Secure Corporation, a company incorporated in Finland (F-Secure). The agreement provides for F-Secure to pay Finjan the sum of $1,000,000 in cash, of which $700,000 was received on April 22, 2015 and $300,000 is payable on or before March 31, 2016. The agreement also provides for the assignment by F-Secure to Finjan of two patents, U.S. Patent Nos. 8,474,048 and 7,769,991, including among other things, all progeny applications or patents, foreign counterparts and reissues (the F-Secure Patents). In exchange for the foregoing and other valuable consideration, Finjan agreed to, subject to certain restrictions, limits and other conditions, grant F-Secure a worldwide, fully-paid up, nonexclusive field of use license to Finjan patents owned as of the effective date or acquired by Finjan or its affiliates within two years from the effective date, as well as to the F-Secure Patents. Executive Employment Agreements We entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated January 14, 2015, with Philip Hartstein, our President and Chief Executive Officer. 12 Table of Contents Lease Agreement The Company signed a sublease agreement dated January 7, 2015, pursuant to which the Company will sublease office space in Palo Alto, California through September 30, 2018 as its new Company headquarters. From the commencement date, the Company owes an initial annual rent of approximately $425,000, payable in equal monthly installments, unless earlier terminated by either party in accordance with the lease. The annual rental rate is subject to an approximate 3.0% increase at each anniversary of the commencement date during the term. The consent of the master landlord was received on February 25, 2015. The minimum lease payments related to the lease is approximately $1.5 million. Industry Trends and Outlook We believe that 2015 will be an active year for patent law reform. We believe that proponents of patent law reform, largely made up of individual or coalitions of powerful technology corporations, are, at its core, seeking severe statutory limitations on how companies specifically those who own patents and do not make product covered by such patents can enforce their patents against companies who make products. The U.S. Congress is considering proposals from all constituents. In an effort to ensure fair and balanced protections for all good faith patent owners, our executives have dedicated time and resources to actively educate our lawmakers and existing and prospective stakeholders on how certain proposed reforms could harm individual inventors, startups, small companies, the licensing industry and therefore, U.S. innovation and the U.S. economy as a whole. Further, since the enactment of the American Invents Act (AIA) on September 16, 2011, several aspects of the patent law have been interpreted by the courts, including what constitutes patentable subject matter, inducement of infringement, and (attorney) fee-shifting to the non-prevailing party in the context of litigation, among other issues. Moreover, under AIA, patents previously granted by the USPTO may be reviewed through post-patent grant proceedings such as reexamination or IPRs. We believe it is becoming a trend, if not a practice, for accused infringers to petition for reexaminations or inter partes review of asserted patents as these proceedings may give the petitioner two bites at the apple. The outcome of the proceedings can range from decisions favorable to the patent holder, favorable to both parties, or favorable to the petitioner. If the outcome is the latter, the value of the challenged patent can be materially reduced or extinguished. Thus, patent rights, including enforcement of such rights against unauthorized use, is inherently subject to uncertainties. We also believe cybersecurity issues will be a very active sector in 2015. Cybersecurity is not just another technology but a critical business issue that intersects government, corporations and individual citizens. We have recently seen a number of successful cybersecurity breaches targeting many high profile victims. The full extent of the cost and damage associated with these attacks may not be known for some time. Nonetheless, these attacks are expected to continue and significantly increase along with their associated and sometimes unprecedented costs. In many cases, it is not just the government or corporation that suffers losses or damages but their clients and customers, who can also fall victim. These issues have forced both government and corporations to take a serious look at their vulnerabilities, which will lead to increased spending on cybersecurity infrastructure, including hardware and software, as well as cybersecurity consulting services. Future Growth Strategy Strategic Goals Our mission, for the foreseeable future, is to license our cybersecurity technologies, invest in innovation, and develop new products and services, as well as encourage the development of core intellectual property. We believe our cybersecurity technologies, which are capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based, basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers, holds significant value. We intend to rigorously protect our research and development investment, the value of our patents and patented technologies, and the value of our existing licensees investments in our patent portfolio through consistent but reasonable enforcement activities, preferably through licensing transactions over litigation. We also intend to leverage our expertise in licensing and enforcement by expanding our intellectual property assets. We intend to pursue our growth strategy through one or more of the following strategies: Invest in Internal Research & Development We intend to pursue internal research and development of new technologies. We do not yet have the internal resources to engage in large-scale research and development and expect that any new technologies we acquire in the near future will be developed in conjunction with strategic partners or acquisitions. However, we have already budgeted for work on smaller-scale initiatives, including developing security applications for mobile devices. 13 Table of Contents Develop and Invest in Cybersecurity Consulting Services We intend to pursue opportunities to develop and invest in cybersecurity consulting services, which could include the hiring of qualified personnel, as well as acquiring an existing cybersecurity consulting firm. The new cybersecurity consulting business would include cybersecurity experts providing services to enterprise level customers on a wide variety of threats, current and future issues and prevention. Expand our IP Assets Through Acquisitions and Strategic Partnerships We intend to acquire and develop new technologies and invest in intellectual property through strategic partnerships, acquisitions of technology-focused companies, IP portfolios or other assets and other initiatives. We will seek to identify technologies and patents that have been or are anticipated to be widely adopted by third parties in connection with the manufacture or sale of products and services, and to which we can bring licensing, enforcement and other expertise. We may also broaden our technology and patent holdings by working with inventors, acquiring technology companies, investing in research laboratories, start-ups, or universities, and by creating strategic partnerships with companies, large and small, seeking to effectively and efficiently monetize their technology and patent assets. While we anticipate that we will initially focus on acquisitions and strategic partnerships involving technologies relating to network, web and endpoint cybersecurity, we may seek to diversify to a broader software definition in the future. Our experience with monetizing both technologies and patents may be considered valuable by potential acquisition candidates and strategic partners who may lack resources or know-how to effectively and efficiently generate a return for those investments. For example, on November 21, 2013, we made an initial investment in an Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund seeking to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies. Develop and Expand Existing Patent Portfolio We have obtained and may continue to obtain new patents relating to technologies we currently own through the continued prosecution of pending patent applications relating to our existing technologies, the identification of novel, patentable uses for our existing technologies (and obtaining patent protection for such uses), as well as seeking international coverage. For example, on March 18, 2014, our subsidiary, Finjan, was issued a U.S. Patent No. 8,677,494 (the 494 Patent). Additionally, The F-Secure agreement provides for the assignment by F-Secure to Finjan of two patents, U.S. Patent Nos. 8,474,048 and 7,769,991, including among other things, all progeny applications or patents, foreign counterparts and reissues. Demonstrate Best Practices in Pursuing Licensing Relationships and Enforcing our Patent Rights In March 2014, we adopted Licensing Best Practices to demonstrate our commitment to ethical, transparent and consistent business practices for intellectual property licensing, and called upon the IP industry to adopt similar initiatives that support technological advancements, investments in innovation, and continued job creation while protected by a strong patent system. We intend to pursue a proactive licensing campaign that adheres to our best practices guidelines while rigorously protecting our intellectual property rights. We believe that by focusing our licensing campaign on: (1) unlicensed providers of our patented technologies and not consumers, (2) by conducting reasonable diligence to determine a patent's enforceability and use with respect to prospective licensees in advance of initial discussions, (3) by being transparent with prospective licensees and providing useful facts and information to aid the prospective licensees decision-making process, and (4) by offering fair value, we are more likely to foster productive business discussions that result in a positive licensing relationship for both parties. We have entered into preliminary discussions with numerous potential licensees in accordance with these Licensing Best Practices, but it is possible that these discussions can take several months or longer to culminate in a license agreement, if at all. These discussions may also result in enforcement activity, as with several of our ongoing matters. See Part II Other Information, Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 14 Table of Contents Advocate and Serve as a Thought Leader for Intelligent Patent Law Reform We believe that 2015 will be an active year for patent law reform, and we intend to advocate and serve as a thought leader for intelligent patent law reform. We believe that proponents of patent law reform, largely made up of individuals or coalitions of powerful technology corporations, are, at its core, seeking severe statutory limitations on how companies -- specifically those who own patents and do not make product covered by such patents -- can enforce their patents against companies who make products. The U.S. Congress is considering proposals from all constituents. In an effort to ensure fair and balanced protections for all good faith patent owners, our executives have dedicated time and resources to actively educate our lawmakers and existing and prospective stakeholders on how certain proposed reforms could harm individual inventors, startups, other small companies, the licensing industry and therefore, U.S. innovation and the U.S. economy as a whole . Significantly, we advocate both addressing abusive patent behavior and incentivizing good patent enforcement behavior. For those who satisfy the latter, we propose the inclusion of an exemption or safe harbor provisions that exempt good faith patent owners from harsh reforms that may be effective for curbing abusive enforcement tactics but destructive to small inventors and entities seeking to enforce their legitimate patent rights against infringers. Although we currently intend to pursue growth through the above strategies, unforeseen market and industry conditions and new developments may necessitate changes in our strategies. We intend to remain resilient, flexible and open to new opportunities for our shareholders. See Part II, Item 1. Legal Proceedings. Recent Accounting Pronouncements On February 18, 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-02 Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis that amends the current consolidation guidance. The amendments affect both the variable interest entity and voting interest entity consolidation models. The new guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2016, with early adoption permitted. This new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. Other recent accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by FASB or other standards-setting bodies that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements upon adoption. Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 and Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuations of Income, Expenses and Cash Flows Related to Licensing and Enforcement Our licenses and judgments may not be recurring, and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until we actually receive the proceeds of licensing activities or litigation (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants, and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. 15 Table of Contents As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business, our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. Public Company Expenses Finjan became a public company on June 3, 2013, and our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market in May 2014. Finjans operating results as a private company do not reflect certain increased expenses that we incur, and will continue to incur, as a public company with listed securities, including legal and accounting fees and other general and administrative expenses related to, among other things, establishing and maintaining more comprehensive compliance and governance functions, establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and complying with federal securities laws. We have also incurred additional costs associated with compensation of non-employee directors and costs associated with the retention of full-time executives, employees and consultants to operate our web and network security technology business and to comply with our obligations as a public company. In addition, the cost of director and officer liability insurance has increased compared to costs incurred by Finjan prior to becoming a public company. Any of the foregoing costs could continue to increase as we pursue our growth strategy. In light of these costs and the changes in our management, business and growth strategy that resulted from the Merger, the costs that we incurred prior to the Merger may not be indicative of the costs we incur as a post-Merger public company and will continue to incur in the future. Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation Our Board of Directors has adopted the Finjan Holdings, Inc. 2014 Incentive Plan (the 2014 Plan), which our shareholders approved at our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders on July 10, 2014, pursuant to which 2,196,836 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance. A total of 515,472 restricted stock units are outstanding as of March 31, 2015 under the 2014 Plan. An additional 1,390,832 options remain outstanding as of March 31, 2015 under the Finjan Holdings, Inc. 2013 Global Share Option Plan and Israeli Sub-Plan (the 2013 Option Plan). We expect that future equity-based awards will have made under the 2014 Plan to our directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods that may not be comparable to past periods. Since the Merger, we have significantly increased the number of our employees to help execute our strategy in the web and network cybersecurity business and support our public company functions, and expect to hire additional employees in both capacities. Accordingly, we will continue to incur compensation expenses in future periods that Finjan did not incur during the historical period presented in its financial statements. Results of Operations The Companys Operating Expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation and consulting, accounting, legal and other professional fees. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, Total Operating Expenses increased by $2.4 million, or 133%, as compared to the same period in 2014. The increased costs for the three months ended March 31, 2015 were primarily due to $1.2 million increase in litigation expenses, $0.7 million increase in headcount and $0 .5 million of other operating expenses. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, Interest Income was lower than the same period last year by $59,000 due to lower cash balance. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expect to continue devoting significant capital resources to the litigations in process and any other litigation we pursue. We also expect to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, and acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy, and to attract and retain qualified personnel on a full-time basis. In addition, on November 21, 2013, we made a $5 million commitment to invest in an Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund seeking to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies of which $4.0 million remains outstanding. The fund can make a call on our remaining $4.0 million commitment at any time until 2018. We expect to make payments to honor this commitment if and when capital calls are made by the fund. We have sufficient cash on hand to fund such obligations. 16 Table of Contents The Company leases an office which acts as its corporate headquarters in East Palo Alto, California and an office in Menlo Park, California. Under the terms of the leases, the Company owes minimum lease obligations of $1.6 million over the life of the leases. In addition to the above leases, the Company leases an office in New York, New York. The Company expects to pay $0.4 million in lease payments over the next 12 months. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally historical and future proceeds from licenses, settlements and judgments in connection with our patent enforcement and licensing activities. On September 24, 2014, Finjan entered into a licensing agreement that provides for installment payments through January 13, 2017. On April 7, 2015, Finjan entered into another license that provides for the licensee to pay Finjan the sum of $1,000,000 in cash, of which $700,000 was received on April 22, 2015 and $300,000 is payable on or before March 31, 2016. The amount and timing of cash flows from our licensing and enforcement activities are subject to uncertainties stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the success of our licensing efforts and the outcome of enforcement actions. As a result, our income and cash flows may vary significantly from period to period. As of March 31, 2015, we had approximately $15.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and $13.2 million of working capital. The decrease in our cash and cash equivalents of approximately $2.5 million from December 31, 2014 is primarily attributable to approximately $4.2 million used in operations, net of the $2.0 million receivable. Based on current forecasts and assumptions, management believes that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. Even without such difficulties, we may seek to raise additional capital to grow our business. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Cash Flows used in Operating Activities Finjans net cash used in operating activities increased by $1.4 million to $2.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to our increased loss offset by increased collections of our accounts receivable. Cash Used in Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2015, cash used in investing activities was deemed a non-material amount compared to the same period last year. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2015, cash flows from financing activities were deemed non- material compared to the same period in 2014. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Item 2. 17 Table of Contents