Item 2. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following discussion includes forward-looking statements about the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations, including discussions about managements expectations for the business. These statements include statements regarding our expectations, intentions, beliefs and projections about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts or by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, potential, should, will, will be, would, and the negative of these terms and similar expressions, but this is not an exclusive way of identifying such statements. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Our actual results, performance and achievements may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, without limitation, our ability to execute our business plan, the outcome of pending or future enforcement actions, our ability to expand our technology portfolio, the enforceability of our patents, the continued use of our technology in the market, the development of a liquid trading market for our securities and other factors described under Item 1A. Risk Factors, as set forth in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K, and any subsequent quarterly or current reports. The following discussion should also be read in conjunction with the audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements, and unaudited condensed financial statements including the notes thereto, appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The Company will continue to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the dates specified in such filings. Except as expressly required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after any such date, whether as a result of new information or future events or otherwise. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this report or that may be made elsewhere from time to time by us, or on our behalf. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Overview We operate two businesses, each of which constitutes a separate reportable segment. Our two reportable segments include: our web and network security technology segment, which we operate through Finjan, and our organic fertilizer segment, which we operate through Converted Organics. The results of operations of our organic fertilizer segment have been included in our assets and liabilities and our historical operations since June 3, 2013, the date Converted Organics, Inc. entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Finjan. Effective June 3, 2013 and pursuant to the Merger Agreement, a wholly owned subsidiary merged with and into Finjan and Finjan became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Converted Organics, Inc. (the Merger). Our web and network security technology business is our principal line of business. We are evaluating whether to continue our organic fertilizer business as currently conducted. There can be no assurance that we will continue to operate our organic fertilizer business as previously operated or at all. Web and Network Security Technology Segment We operate our web and network security technology business through Finjan. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents related to software that proactively detects malicious code and thereby protects end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other online threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented technology that is capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based, basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers, which were standard in the online security industry during the 1990s. As the network, web and endpoint security industries have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that our technology is widely used by third parties. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of our technology through further licensing and to broaden our technology and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. 13 Table of Contents As a core element of our continued patent licensing and enforcement business, our management team, having expertise in technology and IP monetization, alongside early company executives, monitors a number of markets and assesses and observes the adoption of our patented technology in these markets. Our management team, in conjunction with outside legal, technical, and financial experts conclude on a case-by-case basis whether or not they believe that Finjans patented technology is being used. Based on these observations, we continue to believe our patented technologies are relevant in specific technology areas including endpoint/cloud software, web gateway/internet infrastructure, and networking equipment markets. From that basis, we pursue unlicensed entities through licensing, assertion of claims or both. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2009, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the enforcement of its patent rights against unauthorized use and, to a lesser extent, income derived from intellectual property licenses granted to third parties for the use of patented technologies that are owned by Finjan. Although we are actively pursuing negotiated licenses apart from litigation settlements, we have not entered into a license agreement outside of a settlement since our 2012 negotiated license agreement with Trustwave Holdings, Inc. Finjans operating expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses. Finjan did not have any full-time employees from 2009 until 2013, shortly after the Merger. Instead, Finjan relied on outside legal counsel, technology consultants and other professionals to conduct operations during that period, some of whom are former investors and executives of Finjan. Accordingly, Finjans general and administrative expenses consisted primarily of legal fees and other expenses paid to third-party consultants. As of August 6, 2014, we have approximately 11 employees, most of whom joined the Company following the Merger. We intend to hire or engage additional full-time employees and/or consultants to pursue our growth strategy, although there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified personnel on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our management team and additional personnel that we may hire in the future will be primarily responsible for establishing and pursuing our licensing and enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and enforcement opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing technology and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. We nonetheless expect to continue to utilize outside legal counsel and other professionals to execute aspects of our strategy for the foreseeable future, such as trial counsel to prosecute enforcement actions, although our management will control our overall litigation strategy and our strategy for each case we litigate. Organic Fertilizer Segment We operate a processing facility in Gonzales, CA that uses food and agricultural waste as raw materials to manufacture organic fertilizer and soil amendment products combining nutritional and disease suppression characteristics for sale to our agribusiness market. The Gonzales, CA facility is our production facility that services the West Coast agribusiness customer base through established distribution channels. This facility uses proprietary technology and process known as High Temperature Liquid Composting, or HTLC, which processes various biodegradable waste products into liquid and food waste-based fertilizer and a limited amount of solids that could be further processed into a useable form for use in agriculture, retail, and professional turf markets. We are evaluating whether to continue our organic fertilizer business. There can be no assurance that we will continue to operate our organic fertilizer business as previously operated or at all. Recent Developments Appointments and Re-appointments of Executive Officers On July 10, 2014, our Board of Directors (the Board) appointed Daniel Chinn as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors. In light of Mr. Chinns appointment as Executive Chairman, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, which was previously comprised of Daniel Chinn and Michael Eisenberg, was reconstituted to consist of Michael Eisenberg and Alex Rogers, each of whom are independent under applicable NASDAQ rules. 14 Table of Contents On July 10, 2014, our President, Philip Hartstein, was re-appointed President and named Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and our Chief Financial Officer, Shimon Steinmetz was re-appointed Chief Financial Officer and named Treasurer. 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders We held our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders on July 10, 2014. At the annual meeting, each of the fourteen proposals submitted to the Companys stockholders was approved. The proposals related to the following: Election of Directors At our annual meeting of stockholders held on July 10, 2014, the Companys stockholders re-elected each of our Class 1 directors, Eric Benhamou, Daniel Chinn and Michael Southworth, and each of our Class 2 directors, Alex Rogers and Glenn Daniel. Our Class 3 directors will be up for election at our 2015 annual meeting of stockholders. Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm At our annual meeting of stockholders held on July 10, 2014, the Companys stockholders ratified the appointment of Marcum LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan At our annual meeting of stockholders held on July 10, 2014, the Companys stockholders approved the Finjan Holdings, Inc. 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan, pursuant to which 2,196,836 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance, and a total of 244,504 RSUs and 25,000 stock options are outstanding. Upon shareholder approval of the 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan, the 2013 Global Share Option Plan and Israeli Sub-Plan was terminated, other than respect to the 1,489,532 shares of common stock underlying options outstanding under such plan. A summary of the material terms of the 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan are set forth in our Definitive Proxy Statement filed on June 11, 2014. Amended and Restated Charter At our annual meeting of stockholders held on July 10, 2014, the Companys stockholders approved each of the amendments to the Companys certificate of incorporation described in proposals 4A through 4I of our Definitive Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 11, 2014. The charter amendments, including the amendment to decrease the number of authorized shares of common stock from 1,000,000,000 to 80,000,000, became effective on July 10, 2014 upon the filing with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company. A summary of the material charter amendments that are contained in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation are set forth in our Definitive Proxy Statement filed on June 11, 2014. Amended and Restated Bylaws Following the annual meeting, on July 10, 2014, the Board adopted the Amended and Restated Bylaws, effective as of July 10, 2014. The Amended and Restated Bylaws are intended primarily to conform the Companys bylaws to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, update the Companys bylaws to reflect statutory and case law developments since the previous bylaws were adopted and to include provisions commonly found in the bylaws of public Delaware corporations similar to the Company. A summary of the material amendments to the provisions of the prior bylaws, including changes to shareholder advance notice requirements for certain communications with the Company, that are contained in the Amended and Restated Bylaws are set forth in our Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on July 14, 2014. 15 Table of Contents Non-Binding Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation At our annual meeting of stockholders held on July 10, 2014, the Companys stockholders approved the compensation of the Companys named executive officers. Non-Binding Advisory Vote on Frequency of Vote on Executive Compensation At our annual meeting of stockholders held on July 10, 2014, the Companys stockholders voted to hold a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation every three years. The proposals above are described in more detail in our Definitive Proxy Statement for the annual meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 11, 2014. A detailed description of the voting results are also set forth in our Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on July 14, 2014. Patent Litigation On April 17, 2014, the matter entitled Finjan, Inc. v. Websense, Inc. 5:13-cv-04398-JSW, was reassigned to the Honorable Beth Labson Freeman and was designated as 5:13-cv-04398-BLF (N.D. Cal). On May 16, 2014, the Honorable Beth Labson Freeman granted the parties Motion and Stipulation to relate Finjan, Inc. v. Websense, Inc., 5:13-cv-04398-BLF with Finjan, Inc. v. Websense, Inc., 5:14-cv-01353-JSW, the latter of which was re-designated as 5:14-cv-01353-BLF. On June 23, 2014, Judge Freeman consolidated the two actions; the consolidated case number is 5:13-cv-04398-BLF, (N.D. Cal.). On June 6, 2014, the Honorable Saundra Brown Armstrong entered an Order Granting Motion to Stay Pending Reexamination of certain Finjan patents asserted in Finjan, Inc. v. FireEye, Inc., 4:13-cv-03133 SBA (N.D. Cal.). On June 30, 2014, our subsidiary Finjan, Inc. filed a new action against Symantec Corp. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging infringement of Finjan patents relating to endpoint, web, and network security technologies. The case designation for this matter is 3:14-cv-02998-RS (N.D. Cal.). See Part II Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings. On July 24, 2014, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit entered its Oral Argument Order for our appeal entitled Finjan, Inc. v. Symantec Corp., Websense, Inc., Sophos Inc., No. 2013-1682. Subject to revision of the calendar by the Court, our appeal is scheduled for oral argument on September 9, 2014. Recent Accounting Pronouncements On June 19, 2014, FASB issued ASU No. 2014-12, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Accounting for Share-Based Payments when the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service Period. This ASU requires that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. This update further clarifies that compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the period(s) for which the requisite service has already been rendered. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015. Earlier adoption is permitted. The adoption of this standard is expected not to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled to when products and services are transferred to customers. ASU 2014-09 will be effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of 2018. Early adoption is not permitted. The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting the new revenue standard on its consolidated financial statements. Other recent accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by FASB or other standards-setting bodies that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements upon adoption. Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014 for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuation of Income, Expenses and Cash Flows Related to Licensing and Enforcement Our licenses and judgments may not be recurring, and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until we actually receive the proceeds of licensing activities or litigation (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business, our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. Public Company Expenses As a result of the Merger, Finjan became a subsidiary of a public company on June 3, 2013 and our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market in May 2014. Finjans operating results as a private company do not reflect certain increased expenses that we incur, and will continue to incur, as a public company with listed securities, including legal and accounting fees and other general and administrative expenses related to among other things, establishing and maintaining more comprehensive compliance and governance functions, establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and complying with federal securities laws. We have also incurred additional costs associated with compensation of non-employee directors and costs associated with the retention of full-time executives, employees and consultants to operate our web and network security technology business and to comply with our obligations as a public company. In addition, the cost of director and officer liability insurance has increased compared to costs incurred by Finjan prior to becoming a public company. Any of the foregoing costs could continue to increase as we pursue our growth strategy. In light of these costs and the changes in our management, business and growth strategy that resulted from the Merger, the costs that we incurred prior to the Merger may not be indicative of the costs we incur as a post-Merger public company and will continue to incur in the future. 17 Table of Contents Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation Prior to the Merger with Converted Organics Inc. on June 3, 2013, Finjan had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 77 shares of Finjan common stock, all of which were awarded in May 2013. Following the Merger, our Board of Directors adopted the 2013 Global Share Option Plan and Israeli Sub-Plan, pursuant to which 1,489,532 options to purchase shares of our common stock are outstanding, at exercise prices ranging from $1.66 to $5.90. Our Board of Directors also adopted the 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan, which our shareholders approved at our 2014 annual meeting of Stockholders on July 10, 2014 pursuant to which 2,196,836 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance. A total of 244,504 RSUs and 25,000 stock options are outstanding under the 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan. Because shareholders approved the 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan, the 2013 Global Share Option Plan and Israeli Sub-Plan terminated effective July 10, 2014, other than with respect to the 1,489,532 options awarded thereunder, and no further grants will be made under the 2013 Global Share Option Plan and Israeli Sub-Plan. We expect that future equity-based awards will be made under the 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan to our directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods that may not be comparable to past periods. In April 2013, Finjan engaged Philip Hartstein and Shimon Steinmetz as its President and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, pursuant to consulting agreements. Messrs. Hartstein and Steinmetz were appointed President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company on July 8, 2013, and additionally acquired the titles of Chief Executive Officer and Treasurer, respectively, on July 10, 2014. During the first six months of 2014, we also hired several senior management employees and we intend to hire additional employees and/or consultants in the future to expand our business. Since the Merger, we have hired a total of 11 (eleven) employees in the web and network security business. Accordingly, we will continue to incur compensation expenses in future periods that Finjan did not incur during the historical period presented in its financial statements. Finjan Reorganization Until May 2, 2013, Finjan was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finjan Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation, which we refer to as FSI. In April 2013, Finjan distributed securities of two unaffiliated entities which it previously held to FSI, and made a payment of cash in an amount sufficient to repay and satisfy in full an intercompany loan from FSI to Finjan. Following that distribution, the Board of Directors and stockholders of FSI approved the dissolution of, and a plan of liquidation for, FSI that resulted in, among other things, the distribution of Finjan common stock to certain of FSIs stockholders, each of whom received shares of our common stock in the Merger. Financing Activities Prior to the Merger In connection with the Merger, we redeemed, cancelled or otherwise retired all of the notes and derivative securities previously issued by Converted Organics, Inc., other than warrants that are exercisable for a de minimis number of shares of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents the results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively: For the Three Months Ended June 30, For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2014 2013 2014 2013 (in thousands) Revenue: Web and network security technology $ - $ - $ - $ - Organic fertilizer 636 198 810 198 Total Revenue $ 636 $ 198 $ 810 $ 198 Cost of Revenues: Web and network security technology $ - $ - $ - $ - Organic fertilizer 332 148 466 148 Total Cost of Revenues $ 332 $ 148 $ 466 $ 148 Gross Profit: $ 304 $ 50 $ 344 $ 50 Operating Expense: Web and network security technology $ 3,331 $ 2,233 $ 6,189 $ 3,079 Organic fertilizer 233 50 498 50 Total Operating Expenses: $ 3,564 $ 2,283 $ 6,687 $ 3,129 Loss from operations: $ (3,260 ) $ (2,233 ) $ (6,343 ) $ (3,079 ) Other Income, Net: Web and network security technology $ - $ 1,017 $ 1,000 $ 1,017 Organic fertilizer 5 - 17 - Total Other Income: $ 5 $ 1,017 $ 1,017 $ 1,017 Interest Income: Web and network security technology $ 6 $ 31 $ 74 $ 111 Organic fertilizer - - - - Total Interest Income: $ 6 $ 31 $ 74 $ 111 Net loss before Provision for Income Taxes: $ (3,249 ) $ (1,185 ) $ (5,252 ) $ (1,951 ) Income Tax Expense: $ (2 ) $ 7 $ (1 ) $ 7 Net Loss: $ (3,247 ) $ (1,192 ) $ (5,253 ) $ (1,958 ) 19 Table of Contents During the three and six months ended June 30, 2014, total revenue increased by $0.4 million and $0.6 million or 221.2% and 309.6%, respectively, as compared to the same periods in 2013. The increase was due to the recognition of a full three months of revenue from the fertilizer business in 2014 compared to less than a month of revenue in 2013 due to the timing of the Merger. Cost of revenues includes production and material costs incurred by the Companys organic fertilizer business after the Merger date. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2014, cost of revenues increased by $0.2 million or 124.3%, and $0.3 million or 214.9%, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013. The increase was due to the recognition of a full three months of costs from the fertilizer business in 2014 compared to less than a month of costs in 2013 due to the timing of the Merger. The Companys operating expenses consist primarily of general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation and consulting, accounting, legal and other professional fees. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2014, total operating expenses increased by $1.3 million and $3.6 million or 56.1% and 113.7%, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2013. The increased costs for the three months ended June 30, 2014 were primarily due to increase in legal and consultancy fees for patent enforcement activities of $1.1 million. $0.4 million increase in compensation expenses, $0.3 million in costs related to public company expenses and additional increase of $0.4 million various general and administration costs offset by a reduction of $0.8 million in transactions costs compared to the same period in 2013. The increased costs for the six months period ended June 30, 2014 were primarily due to increases in legal and consultancy fees for patent enforcement activities of $1.2 million, $1.1 million in compensation expenses due to additional employees in 2014 compared to the same period in 2013, $0.5 million in costs related to public company expenses and an additional $1.0 million in various costs related to opening a new office in California, evaluation of strategic transactions, franchise taxes and directors and officers insurance. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2014, other income decreased by $1.0 million and $0.01 million or 100.0% and 1.2%, respectively, as compared to the same periods in 2013. The Company received the second installment payment of $1.0 million associated with a licensing agreement entered into in 2012 during the three and six months period ended 30 June 2013. No such settlement was received during the three and six months period ended June 30, 2014. The Merger in June 2013 was accounted for as a business combination. As a result, the associated consideration was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on managements estimate of fair value using the information available at the date of the Merger. The excess of purchase price over the fair value amounts assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed represents goodwill from the acquisition. Interest income decreased due to the lower average cash balance on hand during the 2014 periods compared to the same periods in 2013. Income tax expense decreased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 by approximately $9,000 and $6,000, respectively, due to limited cumulative taxable operations of the Company in certain local jurisdictions . Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expect to continue devoting significant capital resources to the litigations in process and any other litigation we pursue. We also expect to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, and acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy and to attract and retain qualified personnel on a full-time basis. On November 21, 2013, we made a $5 million commitment to invest in an Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund seeking to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies of which $4.0 million remains outstanding. We expect to make payments to honor this commitment if and when capital calls are made by the fund. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally historical proceeds from licenses, settlements and judgments in connection with our patent enforcement activities. Based on current forecasts and assumptions, management believes that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. Even without such difficulties, we may seek to raise additional capital to grow our business. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. 20 Table of Contents We had approximately $20.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $19.1 million of working capital as of June 30, 2014. The decrease in our cash and cash equivalents of approximately $4.0 million from December 31, 2013 is primarily attributable to approximately $3.6 million used in operations inclusive of $1.0 million received from a licensing agreement enter into in 2012, $0.5 million capital commitment called by the Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund and approximately $0.1 million received from exercise of stock options by certain former employees. Our Converted Organics subsidiary does not have funds to build additional facilities and we have no plans to raise such funds or allocate funds generated from our web and network security technology business for that purpose. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Finjans net cash used in operating activities decreased by $25.9 million to $3.5 million during the six months ended June 30, 2014, as compared to the same period in 2013. This reduction was primarily attributable to the payment of accrued income taxes during the six months ended June 30, 2013. Accrued income taxes paid during the six months ended 2014 were not material. Cash Flows from Investing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2014, cash flow from investing activities decreased by $1.1 million. Cash used by investing activities was approximately $0.5 million compared $0.6 million cash flow from investing activities during the comparable period in 2013. Cash used in investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2014 related to a $0.5 million capital commitment called by the Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund. The principal source of cash in the six months ended June 30, 2013 was the proceeds from notes receivable and cash acquired through the Merger. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2014, cash flows from financing activities were approximately $0.07 million attributable to exercise of stock options by certain former employees. During the comparable period in 2013, Finjan used approximately $34.1 million in financing activities. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was attributable to a loan repayment of $33.9 million made to Finjans former parent in February 2013 along with the repurchase of common stock for $204,000 in May 2013. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In June 2014, FASB issued ASU No. 2014-12, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Accounting for Share-Based Payments when the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service Period. This ASU requires that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant date fair value of the award. This update further clarifies that compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the period(s) for which the requisite service has already been rendered. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015. Earlier adoption is permitted. The adoption of this standard is expected not to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled to when products and services are transferred to customers. ASU 2014-09 will be effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of 2018. Early adoption is not permitted. The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting the new revenue standard on its consolidated financial statements.