ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including but not limited to, those set forth under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Overview We operate a cybersecurity business, focused on licensing and enforcement, providing advisory services, developing mobile security applications, and investing in emerging cybersecurity technologies and intellectual property. 30 Continuing Operations We operate our cybersecurity business through subsidiaries including, Finjan, Finjan Mobile and CybeRisk. Through Finjan, we own a portfolio of patents, related to software and hardware technologies that proactively detect malicious code and thereby protect end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other web and network threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented technologies that are capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based, basis, in contrast to signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers. The older signature-based methods, were standard in the web and network security industry during the 1990s. As the web and endpoint security industries - known as cybersecurity - have transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, we believe that our patented technologies continue to be widely used by third parties in a number of market segments. We intend to maximize the economic benefits of our technologies through further licensing and to broaden our technologies and patent holdings through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. As a core element of our continued patent licensing and enforcement business, our management team, having expertise with technology and IP monetization, monitors a number of markets and assesses and observes the adoption of our patented technologies in these markets. Our management team, in conjunction with outside legal, technical, and financial experts concludes on a case-by-case basis whether or not they believe that Finjans patented technologies are being used. Based on these observations, we continue to believe our patented technologies are highly relevant in specific cybersecurity technology areas including, but not limited to endpoint/cloud software, web gateway/internet infrastructure, and networking equipment markets. From that basis, the Company pursues unlicensed entities through licensing, assertion of claims or both to preserve the value of our portfolio in general. This also reinforces the value to existing licensees of the Finjan patent portfolio. Since the sale of its hardware and software operations in 2009, Finjans primary source of income and related cash flows has been the enforcement of its patent rights against unauthorized use and, to a lesser extent, income derived from intellectual property licenses granted to third parties for the use of patented technologies that are owned by Finjan. Finjan Mobile was founded to ensure that mobile devices are protected against spies, phishing and malware attacks. Given the uptrend in mobile device usage coupled with the amount of transient corporate data, the average mobile user presents and represents higher risks of data loss through hacking. The consumer mobile device has become so convenient that consumers often forget about online security and download apps and blindly agree to terms of service, purchase products, pay bills, connect to free Wi-Fi, and not think twice about personal data and photos stored on their devices. As such, in June of 2015, the Company returned to the research and development world with the creation of security products for mobile devices. CybeRisk was founded in 2015 to deliver global advanced cyber risk and cyber security advisory services. Through a team of employees and consultants, based in Tel Aviv, East Palo Alto and London, CybeRisk assesses corporate risk exposure and delivers appropriate mitigation strategies. Its unique and focused offering positions CybeRisk as the piece that interconnects the "server room to the board room". As of December 31, 2015, we had 14 employees. We intend to hire or engage additional full-time professionals, employees, and/or consultants in alignment with our growth strategy. Although the market is highly competitive for attracting and retaining highly qualified professionals in our industry, we continue our endeavor to find such candidates for our Company. Our management team and additional personnel that we may hire in the future will be primarily responsible for executing and implementing our licensing and enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and enforcement opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing cybersecurity technologies and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. Discontinued Operations On December 4, 2014, we sold Converted Organics. As a result of the sale of Converted Organics, we no longer operate an organic fertilizer business and the results of operations of Converted Organics have been included in the consolidated financial statements and footnotes as discontinued operations and reclassified the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 in order to reflect the change in the composition of the Companys segments. Such reclassification did not have an impact on previously reported net loss or net loss per share, total equity and total assets. Significant Developments During 2015 Appointment of New Director 31 On November 5, 2015, Gary Moore was appointed to our Board of Directors. Mr. Moore replaced Michael Eisenberg who resigned from the Board on November 5, 2015. Formation of New Subsidiaries In June 2015, Finjan Holdings launched a wholly-owned subsidiary, CybeRisk, to provide cybersecurity risk advisory services to customers around the world. In December 2015, Finjan Holdings launched a wholly-owned subsidiary, Finjan Mobile, our mobile security business which provides mobile security products for consumers. The first product released was Finjans Mobile Secure Browser available for iOS and Android platform devices. Revenues and operations from our CybeRisk advisory services and our Finjan Mobile security business were immaterial for the year ended December 31, 2015. New Patents On September 22, 2015, our subsidiary, Finjan, was issued a U.S. Patent No. 9,141,786 (786 Patent). On November 17, 2015, our subsidiary, Finjan, was issued a U.S. Patent No. 9,189,621 (621 Patent). On December 22, 2015, our subsidiary, Finjan, was issued a U.S. Patent No. 9,219,755 (755 Patent). The 786, 621 and 755 Patents relate to proprietary malicious mobile code runtime monitoring systems and methods, designed to address potential network security threats through better recognition of malicious code segments passing through Internet infrastructure and networks to endpoint devices. The techniques described in the 786, '621 and '755 Patents cover protection systems and methods offering security for one or more personal computers and/or other intermittently or persistently network accessible devices or processes. Specifically, the inventive aspects of the patent cover various defenses from undesirable or otherwise malicious operations of Java TN applets, ActiveX controls, JavaScript scripts, Visual Basic scripts, add-ins, and downloaded/uploaded programs which are often downloaded by users without considering the inherent security risks. Inter Partes Reviews See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Patent litigations See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Industry Trends and Outlook We believe that 2016 may again be an active year for patent law reform although intellectual property does not seem to be a key issue during the presidential election cycle. We believe that proponents of patent law reform, largely made up of individual or coalitions of powerful technology corporations continue to seek severe statutory limitations on how companies specifically those who own patents and do not make product covered by such patents can enforce their patents against companies who make products. The U.S. Congress is considering proposals from all constituents. In an effort to ensure fair and balanced protections for all good faith patent owners, our executives have dedicated time and resources to actively educate our lawmakers and existing and prospective stakeholders on how certain proposed reforms could harm individual inventors, startups, small companies, the licensing industry and therefore, U.S. innovation and the U.S. economy as a whole. Further, since the enactment of the AIA on September 16, 2011, several aspects of the patent law have been interpreted by the courts, including what constitutes patentable subject matter, inducement of infringement, and (attorney) fee-shifting to the non-prevailing party in the context of litigation, among other issues. Moreover, under AIA, patents previously granted by the USPTO may be reviewed through post-patent grant proceedings such as reexamination or IPR. It is becoming a trend, if not a practice, for accused infringers to petition for reexaminations or IPRs of asserted patents as these proceedings may give the petitioner two bites at the apple. The outcome of the proceedings can range from decisions favorable to the patent holder, favorable to both parties, or favorable to the petitioner. If the outcome is the latter, the value of the challenged patent can be materially reduced or extinguished. Thus, patent rights, including enforcement of such rights against unauthorized use is inherently subject to uncertainties. We also believe cybersecurity issues will again be a very active sector in 2016. Cybersecurity is not just another technology but a critical business issue that intersects government, corporations and individual citizens. We have recently seen a number of devastatingly successful cybersecurity breaches targeting high profile government offices and corporations. The full extent of the cost and damage associated with these attacks may not be known for some time. Nonetheless, these attacks are 32 expected to continue, along with their associated and sometimes unprecedented costs. In many cases, it is not just the government or corporation that suffers losses or damages but their clients and customers, who can also fall victim by the breach of their personal and otherwise confidential data. These issues have forced both government and corporations to take a serious look at their vulnerabilities, which will lead to increased spending on cybersecurity infrastructure, including hardware and software, as well as cybersecurity consulting services. Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuations of Income, Expenses and Cash Flows Related to Licensing and Enforcement Our licenses and Judgments may not be recurring, and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable Judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until the terms are fixed and determinable or litigation is finalized (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants, and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business, our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation Our Board of Directors has adopted the Finjan Holdings 2014 Incentive Plan (2014 Plan), which our shareholders approved at our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders on July 10, 2014, pursuant to which 2,196,836 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance. A total of 408,710 restricted stock units and 1,510,832 options remain outstanding as of December 31, 2015, under the 2014 Plan. We expect that future equity-based awards will continue to be made under the 2014 Plan to our directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods that may not be comparable to past periods. Since the Merger, we have increased the number of our employees to help execute our strategy in the cybersecurity business and support our public company functions, and expect to hire additional employees in both capacities. Accordingly, we will continue to incur compensation expenses in future periods that we did not incur during the historical period presented in our financial statements. Results of Operations Continuing Operations We operate a cybersecurity business, focused on licensing and enforcement, providing advisory services, developing mobile security applications, and investing in emerging cybersecurity technologies and intellectual property. Year ended December 31, 2015 compared with the year ended December 31, 2014 33 We recognized approximately $4.7 million and $5 million of revenue from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 respectively. Revenue in 2015 was derived from multiple license agreements that we entered into with third-parties following negotiations pursuant to our patent licensing and enforcement program, as opposed to the single license agreement we entered into with a third party in 2014 against whom we had filed patent infringement lawsuit. Pursuant to the 2014 and 2015 agreements, we are scheduled to receive approximately $5 million of revenue in 2016 and $1 million of revenue in 2017. Cost of revenues remained relatively consistent for the years ended 2015 and 2014. See details - "Item 1. Business" - "Licensing and Enforcement - Current Activities, Post 2013" We incurred operating expenses of approximately $17.8 million and $13.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our operating expenses consisted primarily of legal fees and general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation, consulting and other professional fees. During the year ended December 31, 2015, total operating expenses increased by approximately $4 million, or 29%, to $17.8 million, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. The increase in expense was primarily due to a $2.5 million increase in costs incurred in relation to pending litigation and $1.3 million increase result of compensation and benefits due to the addition of headcount and employee separation. We recognized other income of approximately $1.3 million and $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Other income was derived primarily from investing activities and gain on settlements. Our gain on investing activities through a liquidity event in a cybertechnology fund was $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and $0 during 2014. Our gain on settlements, net of legal costs, was $0 for the year ended December 31, 2015 and approximately $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2014, representing the second and third of three equal installment payments payable from one of the two parties in the 2010 Litigation. Our interest income decreased by approximately $77,000, or 86%, to approximately $13,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Interest income decreased due to the cash balance on hand during 2015 and $0 interest earned on settlements, as compared to 2014. Our income tax provision remained the same, approximately $5,000 for the years ended 2015 and 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expect to continue devoting significant capital resources to the litigations in process and any other litigation we pursue. We also expect to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy, and attract and retain qualified personnel on a full-time basis. In addition, on November 21, 2013, we made a $5 million commitment to invest in an innovation fund through JVP to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies, of which $3.3 million of the commitment remains unfunded. The fund can make a call on our remaining $3.3 million commitment at any time until 2018. We expect to make payments to honor this commitment if and when capital calls are made by the fund. We have sufficient cash on hand to fund such obligations. The Company leases its corporate headquarters office in Silicon Valley, and offices in New York, New York, Menlo Park, California and Tel Aviv, Israel. Under the terms of the four leases, the Company owes minimum lease obligations of $2.1 million over the remaining life of the leases, of which $1.2 million is for the Silicon Valley headquarters lease. All operations and personnel at the Menlo Park office relocated to 2000 University Avenue during the first quarter of 2015. All operations at the New York office transitioned to the Silicon Valley office as of May, 2015. During 2015 the Company entered into subleases for each of the Menlo Park and New York offices for essentially the remaining duration of the lease. As of December 31, 2015, the total future minimum lease payments to be received under the Menlo Park and New York subleases was $366,000 and $452,000, respectively. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally historical and future proceeds from licenses, settlements and judgments in connection with our patent enforcement and licensing activities. On September 24, 2014, and during 2015, Finjan entered into licensing agreements that provides for installment payments through January, 2017. The amount and timing of cash flows from our licensing and enforcement activities are subject to uncertainties stemming primarily 34 from uncertainties regarding the rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the success of our licensing efforts and the outcome of enforcement actions. As a result, our income and cash flows may vary significantly from period to period. As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $6.1 million of cash and cash equivalents and $3.6 million of working capital. The decrease in our cash and cash equivalents of approximately $11.4 million from $17.5 million in 2014 is primarily attributable to approximately $11.3 million used in operations and $0.8 million capital call from the venture capital fund in which the company invests in, offset by approximately $4.7 million received from license agreements during 2015, $0.8 million received from the venture capital fund during 2015, and collection of $2 million in accounts receivable from 2014. Based on current forecasts and assumptions, management believes that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months from the date of filing this annual report. Such forecasts include approximately $3.7 million of licensing revenue to be received by January 13, 2017 under existing contracts. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. To insure against any such difficulties, we may raise additional capital to fund licensing and enforcement actions, planned research and development activities and to better solidify our financial position. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Further, if the Company is unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, the Company may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of its business plans. Cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2015 Operating Activities : Finjans net cash used in operating activities increased by $3.9 million, or 53%, to $11.3 million of cash used in operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to an increase in legal fees and general and administrative expenses, partially offset by revenue from licensing agreements entered into during 2015, and collection of our accounts receivable. Investing Activities : During the year ended December 31, 2015, cash used by investing activities primarily related to the $0.8 million cash call by JVP and $0.2 million related to the purchase of property, plant and equipment, offset by proceeds of $0.8 million in cash from the exit of one of JVP's portfolio companies. Financing Activities : During the year ended December 31, 2015, cash flows from financing activities were deemed immaterial compared to the same period in 2014. 35 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2015, the Company's contractual obligations over the next three years for the property leases entered into during the years ended 2015, 2014, and 2013: Payments due by Period (In thousands) Contractual Obligations Less Than 1 Year 1-3 Years Total Operating Lease Obligations: $ 787 $ 1,240 $ 2,027 Other Long-Term Liabilities: Capital Commitments not Called 1,000 2,250 3,250 Total $ 1,787 $ 3,490 $ 5,277 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, warranties and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and our revenue recognition. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and the impact of such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Critical accounting policies are those policies that, in managements view, are most important in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our financial statements. These critical accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Those critical accounting policies and estimates that require the most significant judgment are discussed further below. We consider our most critical accounting policies and estimates to be revenue recognition, gain on settlements, valuation of long lived assets, stock based compensation and accounting for business combinations-acquisition method accounting. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery of the product or service has occurred and all obligations have been performed pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Depending on the complexity of the underlying revenue arrangement and related terms and conditions, significant judgments, assumptions and estimates may be required to determine when substantial delivery of contract elements has occurred, whether any significant ongoing obligations exist subsequent to contract execution, whether amounts due are collectible and the appropriate period or periods in which, or during which, the completion of the earnings process occurs. Depending on the magnitude of specific revenue arrangements, if different judgments, assumptions and estimates are made regarding contracts executed in any specific period, our periodic financial results may be materially affected. 36 Monetization of patented technologies by licensing through a negotiated agreement and/or enforcement of such patented technologies by a court of law is the main source of our income. Licenses achieved by ordinary business negotiations where a fair value of the license is determined by the Company is recognized as revenue. Due to our unique business, it is often necessary to file patent infringement litigation against users of our patented technologies as part of the licensing and enforcement activities. We may enter into certain settlements of patent infringement disputes once litigation commences. The amount of consideration received upon any settlement or judgment is allocated to each element of the settlement based on the fair value of each element using the residual method. Elements with fair values related to licensing agreement, royalty revenues, net of contingent legal fees, are recognized as revenue. When the Company is unable to determine the fair value of a license agreement or a settlement, the value of the license agreement or settlement is recognized as contra expense or gain on settlements in other income. Gain on Settlements Elements that are not related to license agreements and royalty revenue in nature will be reflected as a separate line item within the other income section of the consolidated statements of operations as gain on settlement. Elements provided in either settlement agreements or judgment include: the value of a license, legal release, and interest. When settlements or judgment are achieved at discounts to the fair value of a license, the Company allocates the full settlement or judgment, excluding specifically named element as mentioned above, to the value of the license under the residual accounting method. Legal release as part of a settlement agreement is recognized as a separate line item in the consolidated statement of operations when value can be allocated to legal release. Ordinarily, when the Company reaches a settlement with a defendant, no value is allocated to legal release since the existence of a settlement removes legal standing to bring a claim of infringement and without a legal claim, a legal release has no economic value. The element that is applicable to interest income is recorded as a separate line item in other income. We make estimates and judgments when determining whether the collectability of fees receivable from licensees is reasonably assured. We assess the collectability of fees receivable based on a number of factors, including past transaction history and the credit-worthiness of licensees. If it is determined that collection is not reasonably assured, the fee is recognized when collectability becomes reasonably assured, assuming all other income recognition criteria have been met, which is generally upon receipt of cash for transactions where collectability may have been an issue. Managements estimates regarding collectability impact the actual income recognized each period and the timing of the recognition of income. Our assumptions and judgments regarding future collectability could differ from actual events and thus materially impact our financial position and results of operations. In general, our income arrangements provide for the payment of contractually determined fees in consideration for the grant of certain intellectual property rights for patented technologies owned or controlled by us. These rights typically include some combination of the following: (i) the grant of a non-exclusive, retroactive and future license to manufacture and/or sell products covered by patented technologies owned or controlled by our operating subsidiaries, (ii) a covenant-not-to-sue, (iii) the release of the licensee from certain claims, and (iv) the dismissal of any pending litigation. The intellectual property rights granted may be perpetual in nature, extending until the expiration of the related patents, or can be granted for a defined, relatively short period of time, with the licensee possessing the right to renew the agreement at the end of each contractual term for an additional minimum upfront payment. Pursuant to the terms of these agreements, we have no further obligation with respect to the grant of the non-exclusive retroactive and future licenses, covenants-not-to-sue, releases, and other deliverables, including no express or implied obligation on our part to maintain or upgrade the technologies, or provide future support or services. As such, the earnings process is complete and income is recognized upon the execution of the agreement, when collectability is reasonably assured and when all other income recognition criteria have been met. Income from licenses issued through negotiated agreement with the licensee is recognized when the arrangement with the licensee has been signed and the license has been delivered and made effective, provided license fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Income from settlements reached on legal enforcement of our patent rights and the release of the licensee from certain legal claims, is recognized on receipt of the settlement amounts. 37 Stock-based Compensation Expense Stock-based compensation payments to employees, non-employee consultants and directors are recognized as expense in the statements of income. The compensation cost for all stock-based awards is measured at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award (determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model for stock options and intrinsic value on the date of grant for non-vested restricted stock), and is recognized as an expense over the employees requisite service period (generally the vesting period of the equity award). Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires significant estimates and judgments, including estimating the market price volatility of our common stock, future employee stock option exercise behavior and requisite service periods. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded only for those awards expected to vest using an estimated pre-vesting forfeiture rate. As such, we are required to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures at the time of grant and reflect the impact of estimated pre-vesting option forfeitures on compensation expense recognized. Estimates of pre-vesting forfeitures must be periodically revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We consider several factors in connection with our estimate of pre-vesting forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical pre-vesting forfeiture data. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results differ from our estimates, such amounts will be recorded as cumulative adjustments in the period the estimates are revised. The Company granted options to a small number of employees and consultants. Approximately 4% of stock options and 7% of restricted stock units granted were forfeited during the year ended December 31, 2015 due to employee separation. This forfeiture rate was used in calculating the stock-compensation expense. The Company will continue to monitor its expectations on an ongoing basis and revise this assumption as future circumstances dictate. If actual results differ significantly from these assumption, stock-based compensation expense and our results of operations could be materially impacted. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In connection with the investment in JVP, we have a commitment balance outstanding of approximately $3.3 million, which can be called at any time until 2018. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2014-9, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-9) , which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-9 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled to when products and services are transferred to customers. ASU 2014-9 will be effective for the Company beginning in its first quarter of 2018. Early adoption is permitted commencing January 1, 2017. The new revenue standard may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting the new revenue standard on its consolidated financial statements. In February, 2015, FASB issued ASU No. 2015-02 Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis that amends the current consolidation guidance. The amendments affect both the variable interest entity and voting interest entity consolidation models. The new guidance is effective beginning January 1, 2016, with early adoption permitted. This new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to continue as a Going Concern, which provides guidance on determining when and how to disclose going-concern uncertainties in the financial statements. The new standard requires management to perform interim and annual assessments of an entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year of the date the financial statements are issued. An entity must provide certain disclosures if conditions or events raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern. The ASU applies to all entities and is effective for annual periods ending after December 15, 2016, and interim periods thereafter, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this new guidance. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes to simplify the presentation of deferred income taxes. The amendments in this update require that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as non-current in a classified statement of financial position. We have elected to early adopt ASU 2015-17 as of the beginning of our fourth quarter ended December 31, 2015 on a prospective basis. There is no impact to the balance sheet amounts as a result of early adoption. 38 In February, 2016, FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02 Leases that requires a lessee to recognize the assets and liabilities that arise from operating leases. A lessee should recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect of the standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Other recent accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by FASB or other standards-setting bodies that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption. 39 Table of Contents