Item 2. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following discussion includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, about Finjan Holdings, Inc., (the Company or Finjan Holdings), financial condition and results of operations, including discussions about managements expectations for the business. These include statements regarding our expectations, intentions, beliefs and projections about our future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts or by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, 10 Table of Contents potential, should, will, will be, would, and the negative of these terms and similar expressions, but this is not an exclusive way of identifying such statements. Readers are cautioned that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Our actual results, performance and achievements may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of various risks, uncertainties and other factors. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, without limitation, our ability to execute our business plan, the outcome of pending or future enforcement actions, our ability to expand our technology portfolio, the enforceability of our patents, the continued use of our technologies in the market, the development of products and services for the consumer and enterprise market, the sufficiency of our existing cash and investments to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months, the development or continuation of a liquid trading market for our securities, regulatory developments and other factors described under Item 1A. Risk Factors, as set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 and any subsequent quarterly or current reports. The following discussion should also be read in conjunction with the audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, as set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 and any subsequent quarterly or current reports, including this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The Company will continue to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). Forward-looking statements speak only as of the dates specified in such filings. Except as expressly required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after any such date, whether as a result of new information or future events or otherwise. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this report or that may be made elsewhere from time to time by us, or on our behalf. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. Overview We operate a cybersecurity business, focused on licensing, providing consulting services, developing mobile security applications, and investing in cybersecurity technologies and intellectual properties. As of June 30, 2015, we have approximately fifteen employees and we intend to hire or engage additional full-time professionals, employees, and/or consultants in alignment with our growth strategy. Although the market is highly competitive for attracting and retaining highly qualified professionals in our industry, we continue our endeavor to find such candidates for our Company. Our management team and additional future personnel will be primarily responsible for executing and implementing our enforcement strategy, including analyzing licensing and litigation opportunities, making tactical decisions related to our strategy, identifying new applications for our existing cybersecurity technologies and pursuing opportunities to invest in new technologies through strategic partnerships and acquisitions. Licensing Through our subsidiary, Finjan, Inc. (Finjan), we own a portfolio of patents related to cybersecurity software and hardware technologies that proactively and dynamically detect malicious code, thereby protecting end users from identity and data theft, spyware, malware, phishing, trojans and other web and network threats. Founded in 1997, Finjan developed and patented cybersecurity technologies that are capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based basis, a significant improvement over previous signature-based methods of intercepting only known threats to computers, which were standard in the web and network cybersecurity industry during the 1990s. With the ever-mounting security breaches, the network, web and endpoint cybersecurity industries have necessarily transitioned to behavior-based detection of malicious code, and we believe that our patented innovations are widely used by third parties. We intend to protect the value of our patent portfolio and maximize the economic benefits of our technologies through further licensing. Moreover, we will continue to develop new cybersecurity technologies and increase our patent holdings through strategic acquisitions and partnerships. On April 7, 2015, Finjan entered into a Confidential Asset Purchase and Patent License Agreement (F-Secure License) with F-Secure Corporation, a company incorporated in Finland (F-Secure). The F-Secure License provides for F-Secure to pay Finjan the sum of $1,000,000 in cash, of which $700,000 was received on April 22, 2015, and $300,000 is payable on or before March 31, 2016. The F-Secure License also provides for the 11 Table of Contents assignment by F-Secure to Finjan of two patents, U.S. Patent Nos. 8,474,048 (the 048 Patent) and 7,769,991 (the 991 Patent), including among other things, all progeny applications or patents, foreign counterparts and reissues (collectively the F-Secure Patents). The 048 and 991 Patents have been duly assigned to Finjan and recorded with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and -- consistent with our commitment to transparency -- on the recently launched Open Register of Patent Owners (ORoPO). In exchange for the foregoing and other valuable consideration, Finjan agreed to (subject to certain restrictions, limits and other conditions), grant F-Secure a worldwide, fully-paid up, nonexclusive field of use license to Finjan patents owned as of the effective date or acquired by Finjan or its affiliates within two years from the effective date, as well as to the F-Secure Patents. Cybersecurity Consulting Services On June 15, 2015 the Company announced the launch of its new business, CybeRisk TM Security Solutions Ltd. (CybeRisk) to provide cybersecurity risk advisory services to customers, at the executive and board room level, around the world. CybeRisk will service customers throughout Europe, North America, and other key global markets from its headquarters in Tel Aviv. Yoram Golandsky, who previously led Ciscos Cyber Security Center of Excellence (the Center) as General Manager, has been named Chief Executive Officer of CybeRisk. Mr. Golandsky brings to his role of CEO more than 20 years of experience delivering security technology and advisory services in the financial services, ecommerce, and payment system industries. CybeRisks management team includes COO Eyal Harari, who also joins from the Center. As Business Operations Manager there, Mr. Harari was responsible for the Center's project initiation, deliverables, finance, quality, and timeframes, in addition to managing the Center's resources and reporting both internally and externally. Mobile Applications On June 16, 2015, Finjan launched a new mobile application product for consumers, namely, the Finjan Mobile Secure Browser (a browser that can be used like other browsers, such as Safari or Google Chrome), available for the iOS and Android platforms. The Finjan Mobile Secure Browser provides a simple solution for protecting a mobile device from malicious content from the Internet. The Finjan Mobile Secure Browser will inform users as they attempt to log onto an unfamiliar URL (Uniform Resource Location) or web page as to whether that web page is safe, suspicious, or dangerous, as well as where the website domain resides and the categories so that the user can avoid a malicious breach. For example, if the site is safe (green), Finjan Mobile Secure Browser will go directly to the desired web page. If the URL is suspect (yellow), it will caution the user and state, for example, the site may contain malicious code or use phishing tactics (e.g., creating replicas of otherwise legitimate commercial websites). If the site is dangerous (red), Finjan's secure browser will warn the user of the danger in proceeding, but allow the user to decide whether or not to proceed. Version 1 of the Finjan Mobile Secure Browser can currently be downloaded for free onto your smartphone from the Google Play Store (for Android devices) and the iTunes Store (for iOS devices). On June 3, 2015, we announced the Finjan Mobile Defense Challenge 2015 (MDC 2015), a student cybersecurity mobile application competition to promote innovation, education, and the entrepreneurial spirit in the cybersecurity space, in a combined effort to identify next generation consumer privacy and data protection technologies for mobile platforms. Drawing from our history in developing behavior-based cybersecurity solutions with the assistance of student hackers, we offered a $40,000 grant to the student or team of students whose mobile security application proposal was selected for development. On July 15, 2015, we announced the winner of the MDC 2015. Team SeQrity whose members are PhD candidates from the University of California, Los Angeles; Northeastern University, College of Engineering; and William Marsh Rice University, Department of Computer Science, proposed a mobile security application entitled Influential Manner of Smart-Phone Applications on User's Privacy through Machine Learning and Pattern Recognition Methods. Team SeQrity will develop their proposed mobile application under the mentorship and guidance of a professional developer, including business-related skills such as developing a project development plan with milestones and a budget. Investments in Innovations On November 21, 2013, we made an initial investment in JVP VII Cyber Strategic Partners, L.P. (the JVP Fund), an Israel-based venture capital fund, seeking to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies. On June 8, 2015, we received a cash distribution of $826,000 as a portion of a gross entitlement of approximately 12 Table of Contents $1,271,000 from its investment in the JVP Fund. This distribution represents a portion of the gross proceeds allocated to the Companys investment, with the remaining amounts to be retained by the JVP Fund to fund future investment activities. Discontinued Operations On December 4, 2014, we sold our wholly-owned subsidiary, Converted Organics of California, LLC (Converted Organics), and as a result, we no longer operate an organic fertilizer business. The results of operations of Converted Organics have been included in the condensed consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereof as discontinued operations. Accordingly, we have reported the results of operations of Converted Organics as discontinued operations and reclassified the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014. In order to reflect the change in the composition of the Companys segments, such reclassification did not have an impact on previously reported net loss or net loss per share, total equity and total assets. Recent Events On August 4, 2015, the jury returned a unanimous verdict that each of the Finjan asserted patents are valid and enforceable. Further, the jury returned a unanimous verdict that Finjans U.S. Patent Nos. 6,154,844, 6,804,780, 6,965,968, and the 7,418,731 were literally infringed by Blue Coat, and that U.S. Patent No. 7,647,633 was infringed by Blue Coat under the Doctrine of Equivalents. Upon the findings of infringement, the jury also awarded Finjan $39.5 million in damages as reasonable royalties for Blue Coat's infringement. Post-trial motions are pending. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in collecting any amounts awarded in this claim. Finjan, Inc. v. Blue Coat Systems, Inc., Case 3:15-cv-03295-BLF, (N.D. Cal.): Finjan filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Blue Coat Systems, Inc. (Blue Coat) in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on July 15, 2015, asserting that Blue Coat is directly infringing certain claims of Finjans U.S. Patent Nos. 6,154,844, 6,965,968, 7,418,731, 8,079,086, 8,225,408, 8,677,494, 8,566,580, through the manufacture, use, importation, sale, and/or offer for sale of its products and services, including but not limited to the Web Security Service, WebPulse Cloud Service, ProxySG Appliances and Software, Blue Coat Systems SV2800 and SV3800, Malware Analysis Appliances and Software, Security Analytics Platform, Content Analysis System, and Mail Threat Defense, S400-10 and S400-20. We seek entry of judgment that Blue Coat has infringed and is infringing the above-listed patents, a preliminary and permanent injunction from the infringement of the same patents, an accounting of all infringing sales and revenues, damages of no less than a reasonable royalty consistent with proof, and enhanced damages for willful infringement, costs, interest, and reasonable attorneys fees under 35 U.S.C. 285. On July 30, 2015, this action was reassigned to the Honorable Beth Labson Freeman. Blue Coat has not yet filed its Answer to the Complaint. On July 13, 2015, the Patent Trial and Appeals Board (PTAB) at the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) granted the Companys petitions for Inter Partes Review (IPR) of two FireEye patents and subsequently determined that a majority of claims in US Patent Nos. 8,171,533 and 8,291,499, are invalid. Industry Trends and Outlook We believe cybersecurity issues will be a very active sector in 2015. Cybersecurity is not just another technology but a critical business issue that intersects government, corporations and individual citizens. We have recently seen a number of successful cybersecurity breaches targeting many high profile victims. The full extent of the cost and damage associated with these attacks may not be known for some time. Nonetheless, these attacks are expected to continue and significantly increase along with their associated and sometimes unprecedented costs. In many cases, it is not just the government or corporation that suffers losses or damages but their clients, customers and employees, who can also fall victim. These issues have forced the government, corporations, and other internet dependent entities to take a more critical analyses of their vulnerabilities, which will lead to increased spending on cybersecurity infrastructure, including consulting services, hardware and software. Future Growth Strategy Strategic Goals 13 Table of Contents Our mission, for the foreseeable future, is to license our cybersecurity technologies, invest in innovation, and develop new products and services, as well as encourage the development of core intellectual property. We believe our cybersecurity technologies, which are capable of detecting previously unknown and emerging threats on a real-time, behavior-based basis, continue to hold significant value. We intend to rigorously protect our research and development investment, the value of our patents and patented technologies, and the value of our existing licensees investments in our patent portfolio through consistent but reasonable enforcement activities, preferably through licensing transactions over litigation. We are pursuing and will continue to pursue our growth strategy through the following strategies: Invest in Internal Research & Development - We are pursuing and will continue to pursue internal research and development of new security technologies. Since we do not yet have sufficient internal personnel to engage in large-scale research and development, our expectation is that any new technologies in the near future will be developed in conjunction with strategic partners or obtained via acquisitions. Current research and development includes developing security applications for mobile devices, the first being the Finjan Mobile Secure Browser. Continue to Develop and Invest in CyberRisk - We intend to further invest in CyberRisk, our cybersecurity consulting services business. This will include the hiring of additional qualified personnel, as well as potentially acquiring an existing cybersecurity consulting firm. CybeRisk provides services to enterprise level customers on a wide variety of threats, current and future issues and prevention. Expand our IP Assets Through Acquisitions and Strategic Partnerships - We intend to acquire and develop new technologies and invest in intellectual property through strategic partnerships, acquisitions of technology-focused companies, IP portfolios or other assets and other initiatives. We endeavor to identify relevant security technologies and patents that have been or are anticipated to be widely adopted by third parties in connection with the manufacture or sale of products and services, and to which we can bring enforcement (i.e., licensing or litigation) and other expertise. We may also broaden our technology and patent holdings by working with inventors, acquiring technology companies, investing in research laboratories, start-ups, or universities, and by creating strategic partnerships with companies, large and small, seeking to effectively and efficiently monetize their technology and patent assets. While we anticipate that we will initially focus on acquisitions and strategic partnerships involving technologies relating to network, web and endpoint cybersecurity, we may seek to diversify to a broader market in the future. Our experience with monetizing both technologies and patents may be considered valuable by potential acquisition candidates and strategic partners who may lack resources or know-how to effectively and efficiently generate a return for those investments. For example, through our investment in the JVP Fund, we believe that viable acquisition targets will come to our attention. Develop and Expand Existing Patent Portfolio - We have obtained and endeavor to continue to obtain new patents relating to security technologies through research and development and/or acquisition in the cybersecurity space. For example, on March 18, 2014, our subsidiary, Finjan, Inc. (Finjan), was issued a U.S. Patent No. 8,677,494 (the 494 Patent). Additionally, as part of the consideration for granting a patent license to F-Secure, we acquired two of F-Secures patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 8,474,048 and 7,769,991, including among other things, all progeny applications or patents, foreign counterparts and reissues), that are complementary to our existing patent portfolio. We also recently filed a provisional application covering our new secure mobile browser application. Demonstrate Best Practices in Pursuing Licensing Relationships and Enforcing our Patent Rights - In March 2014, we adopted Licensing Best Practices to demonstrate our commitment to ethical, transparent and consistent business practices for intellectual property licensing. We called upon and continue to promote industry-wide adoption of a set of licensing best practices, through leadership organizations such as the Licensing Executive Society (LES) and the recently launched Open Register of Patent Owners (ORoPO) that support technological advancements, investments in innovation, and continued job creation while protected by a robust patent system. We intend to pursue a proactive licensing campaign that adheres to our best practices guidelines while rigorously protecting our intellectual property rights. We believe that by focusing our licensing campaign on: (1) unauthorized providers of our patented technologies and not consumers, (2) conducting reasonable diligence to determine a patent's enforceability and use with respect to prospective licensees in advance of initial discussions, (3) being transparent with prospective licensees and providing useful facts and information to aid the prospective licensees decision-making process, and (4) offering fair value, we are more likely to foster 14 Table of Contents productive business discussions that result in a positive licensing relationship for both parties. We have entered into preliminary discussions with numerous potential licensees in accordance with these Licensing Best Practices, but acknowledge that it takes many discussions and many months for preliminary discussions to culminate in a license agreement, if at all. While it is our preference to resolve our patent-related disputes through amicable business solutions, protecting the value of our patented technology is paramount. See Part II - Other Information, Item 1. Legal Proceedings. Although we currently intend to pursue growth through the above strategies, unforeseen market and industry conditions and new developments may necessitate changes in our strategies. We intend to remain resilient, flexible and open to new opportunities for our shareholders. See Part II, Item 1. Legal Proceedings. Recent Accounting Pronouncements On February 18, 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-02 Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis that amends the current consolidation guidance. The amendments affect both the variable interest entity and voting interest entity consolidation models. The new guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2016, with early adoption permitted. This new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. Other recent accounting standards that have been issued or proposed by FASB or other standards-setting bodies that do not require adoption until a future date are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements upon adoption. Comparability to Future Results We have set forth below selected factors that we believe have had, or can be expected to have, a significant effect on the comparability of our recent or future results. In addition to the factors described below, please see Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 and Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 for additional factors that may affect our operating results. Fluctuations of Income, Expenses and Cash Flows Related to Licensing and Enforcement Our licenses and judgments may not be recurring, and are not necessarily indicative of the income or cash flows that we expect to generate in the future from our existing technology portfolio or otherwise. We expect income, expenses and cash flows related to patent enforcement to be unpredictable and to fluctuate significantly from period to period. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect the timing and amount of our income and cash flows related to patent licensing and enforcement actions, including, but not limited to, trial dates, the strength of our claims and likelihood of achieving an acceptable license on settlement, the timing and nature of any appeals and our ability to collect on any favorable judgments. Significant fluctuations in our income and cash flows may make our business difficult to manage and adversely affect our business and operating results. We do not recognize income from our licensing and enforcement actions until we actually receive the proceeds of licensing activities or litigation (whether resolved at trial or in a settlement). Our expenses, principally with respect to litigation costs, may also vary significantly from period to period depending upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, whether fees of outside legal counsel are paid on an hourly, contingent or other basis, the timing of depositions, discovery and other elements of litigation, costs of expert witnesses and other consultants, and other costs incurred in support of enforcement actions. As a result of the factors described above and other known and unknown risks affecting our business, our historical operating performance may not be indicative of our future results. Public Company Expenses Finjan became a public company on June 3, 2013 through a reverse merger (the Merger), and our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market in May 2014. Finjans operating results as a private company do not reflect certain increased expenses that we incur, and will continue to incur, as a public company 15 Table of Contents with listed securities, including legal and accounting fees and other general and administrative expenses related to, among other things, establishing and maintaining more comprehensive compliance and governance functions, establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and complying with federal securities laws. We have also incurred additional costs associated with compensation of non-employee directors and costs associated with the retention of full-time executives, employees and consultants to operate our cybersecurity business and to comply with our obligations as a public company. In addition, the cost of director and officer liability insurance has increased compared to costs incurred by Finjan prior to becoming a public company. Any of the foregoing costs could continue to increase as we pursue our growth strategy. In light of these costs and the changes in our management, business and growth strategy that resulted from the Merger, the costs that we incurred prior to the Merger may not be indicative of the costs we incur as a post-Merger public company and will continue to incur in the future. Stock-Based and Other Executive Compensation Our Board of Directors has adopted the Finjan Holdings, Inc. 2014 Incentive Plan (the 2014 Plan), which our shareholders approved at our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders on July 10, 2014, pursuant to which 2,196,836 shares of common stock are authorized for issuance. A total of 517,926 restricted stock units are outstanding as of June 30, 2015 under the 2014 Plan. 1,398,332 options remain outstanding as of June 30, 2015 under the 2013 and 2014 Plans. We expect that future equity-based awards will be made under the 2014 Plan to our directors, officers and other employees and consultants. As a result, to the extent relevant, we may incur non-cash, stock-based compensation expenses in future periods that may not be comparable to past periods. Since the Merger, we have significantly increased the number of our employees to help execute our strategy in the cybersecurity business and support our public company functions, and expect to hire additional employees in both capacities. Accordingly, we will continue to incur compensation expenses in future periods that Finjan did not incur during the historical period presented in its financial statements. Results of Operations Revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 were $0.7 million compared to $0 the same periods in 2014. There were no revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 due to discontinued operations from Converted Organics. The increases in revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to the same periods in 2014 were due to an agreement entered into with F-Secure in April 2015. We recognized $0.7 million of the $1.0 million license as revenues provided under the agreement, with the remaining balance of $0.3 million to be recognized as revenues when the payment is due on or before March 2016. The Companys operating expenses consist primarily of selling, general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation, accounting, legal and other professional fees. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2015, selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $1.2 million, or 36.8% and $2.6 million, or 41.6% , respectively, as compared to the same periods in 2014. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2015, litigation expenses increased $1.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2014. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2015, headcount related expenses increased $31,000 and $0.7 million, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2014. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2015, other operating expenses increased $0.3 million and $85,000, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2014. Return on investments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015 increased by $1.3 million compared to the same periods in 2014 due to a distribution from our investment in the JVP Fund, which represents a portion of the gross proceeds allocated to the Companys investment. Gain on settlement, net of legal costs for the six months ended June 30, 2015 decreased by $1.0 million compared to the same period in 2014. $1.0 million gain on settlement during the six months ended June 30, 2014, represented the third and final installment payment from prior litigation settlement. 16 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Our cash requirements are, and will continue to be, dependent upon a variety of factors. We expect to continue devoting significant capital resources to the litigations in process and any other litigation we pursue. We also expect to require significant capital resources to maintain our issued patents, prosecute our patent applications, and acquire new technologies as part of our growth strategy, and to attract and retain qualified personnel. In addition, on November 21, 2013, we made a $5.0 million commitment to invest in an Israel-based limited partnership venture capital fund seeking to invest in early-stage cyber technology companies of which $4.0 million remains outstanding. The fund can make a call on our remaining $4.0 million commitment at any time until 2018. We expect to make payments to honor this commitment if and when capital calls are made by the fund. We have sufficient cash on hand to fund such obligations. The Company leases an office which acts as its corporate headquarters in East Palo Alto, California and an office in Menlo Park, California. Under the terms of the leases, the Company owes minimum lease obligations of $1.6 million over the life of the leases. In addition to the above leases, the Company leases an office in New York, New York. The Company expects to pay $0.4 million in lease payments over the next 12 months. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, principally historical and future proceeds from licenses, settlements and judgments in connection with our patent enforcement and licensing activities. On September 24, 2014, Finjan entered into a licensing agreement that provides for installment payments through January 13, 2017. On April 7, 2015, Finjan entered into another license that provides for the licensee to pay Finjan the sum of $1,000,000 in cash, of which $700,000 was received on April 22, 2015 and $300,000 is payable on or before March 31, 2016. The amount and timing of cash flows from our licensing and enforcement activities are subject to uncertainties stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the rates of adoption of our patented technologies, the success of our licensing efforts and the outcome of enforcement actions. As a result, our income and cash flows may vary significantly from period to period. As of June 30, 2015, we had approximately $11.9 million of cash and cash equivalents and $9.8 million of working capital. The decrease in our cash and cash equivalents of approximately $5.6 million from December 31, 2014 is primarily attributable to approximately $5.0 million used in operations. Based on current forecasts and assumptions, management believes that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months from the date of filing this report. We may, however, encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. Even without such difficulties, we may seek to raise additional capital to grow our business. Any efforts to seek additional funding could be made through issuances of equity or debt, or other external financing. However, additional funding may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Cash Flows used in Operating Activities Finjans net cash used in operating activities increased by $2.6 million to $6.2 million during the six months ended June 30, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014 primarily due to our increased loss offset by increased collections of our accounts receivable. Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2015, cash provided by investing activities increased by $1.1 million compared to the same period in 2014. The increase was primarily due to proceeds from investment of $0.8 million and decrease in purchase of shares in investee of $0.5 million during the six months ended June 30, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the six months ended June 30, 2015, cash flows from financing activities were deemed non- material compared to the same period in 2014. 17 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Item 2.