Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The statements in this discussion regarding our expectations of our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, changes in demand as well as the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview Incorporated in Delaware in 1996, Commvault Systems, Inc. provides its customers with a cyber resiliency platform that helps them secure, defend and recover their most precious asset, their data. We provide these products and services for their data across the following environments: on-premises, hybrid and multi-cloud. Our cyber resiliency offerings are delivered via self-managed software, SaaS, integrated appliances, or managed by partners. Customers use our technology to protect themselves from threats like ransomware and recover their data efficiently. Sources of Revenues We generate revenues through subscription arrangements, perpetual software licenses, customer support contracts and other services. A significant portion of our total revenues comes from subscription arrangements, which include both sales of term-based licenses and SaaS offerings. We are focused on these types of recurring revenue arrangements. We expect our subscription arrangements will continue to generate revenues from the renewals of term-based licenses and SaaS offerings sold in prior years. Any of our pricing models (capacity, instance based, etc.) can be sold via a subscription arrangement, either through term-based licensing or hosted services. In term-based license arrangements, the customer has the right to use the software over a designated period of time. The capacity of the license is fixed and the customer has made an unconditional commitment to pay. Software revenue in these arrangements is generally recognized when the software is delivered. In SaaS offerings, revenue is recognized ratably over the contract period. We sell to end-user customers both directly through our sales force and indirectly through our global network of value-added reseller partners, systems integrators, corporate resellers and original equipment manufacturers. Subscription revenue generated through indirect distribution channels accounted for approximately 90% of total subscription revenue in both the nine months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Subscription revenue generated through direct distribution channels accounted for approximately 10% of total subscription revenue in both the nine months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Deals initiated by our direct sales force are sometimes transacted through indirect channels based on end-user customer requirements, which are not always in our control and can cause this overall percentage split to vary from period-to-period. As such, there may be fluctuations in the dollars and percentage of subscription revenue generated through our direct distribution channels from time-to-time. We believe that the growth of our subscription revenue, derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force, are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We intend to continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term. The failure of our indirect distribution channels or our direct sales force to effectively sell our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We have a non-exclusive distribution agreement with Arrow pursuant to which Arrow's primary role is to enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our products and services by managing our reseller partners and leveraging their own industry experience. We generated 36% and 37% of our total revenues through Arrow for the nine months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. If Arrow were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products or if our agreement with Arrow were terminated, and if we were unable to take back the management of our reseller channel or find another distributor to replace Arrow, there could be a material adverse effect on our future business. Our customer support revenue includes support contracts tied to our software products. Customer support includes software updates on a when-and-if-available basis, telephone support, integrated web-based support, and 17 Table of Contents other premium support offerings, for both term-based software license and perpetual software license arrangements. We sell our customer support contracts as a percentage of net software. Customer support revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the customer support agreement. Our other services revenue consists primarily of professional service offerings, including consultation, assessment and design, installation services, and customer education. Revenues from other services can vary period over period based on the timing services are delivered and are typically recognized as the services are performed. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations Sales outside the United States were 47% of our total revenues for both the nine months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. The income statements of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions generally results in increased revenues, operating expenses and income from operations for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, our revenues, operating expenses and net income will generally decrease for our non-U.S. operations if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the three months ended December 31, 2022, our total revenues would have been lower by $2.4 million, our cost of revenues would have been lower by $0.1 million and our operating expenses would have been lower by $0.9 million from non-U.S. operations for the three months ended December 31, 2023. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the nine months ended December 31, 2022, our total revenues would have been lower by $3.8 million, our cost of revenues would have been higher by $0.1 million and our operating expenses would have been lower by $0.8 million from non-U.S. operations for the nine months ended December 31, 2023. In addition, we are exposed to risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from cash balances, accounts receivables and intercompany accounts denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to the resulting transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of general and administrative expenses. We recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of approximately $1.6 million and $1.8 million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2023, respectively. We recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of approximately $0.3 million and $0.1 million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2022, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies In presenting our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, we are required to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported therein. Some of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable and appropriate. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by U.S. GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application, while in other cases, significant judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting standards that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. We consider these policies requiring significant management judgment to be critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are: Revenue Recognition Accounting for Income Taxes Goodwill There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2023. 18 Table of Contents Results of Operations Amounts reported in millions are rounded based on the amounts in thousands. As a result, the sum of the components reported in millions may not equal the total amount reported in millions due to rounding. Three months ended December 31, 2023 compared to three months ended December 31, 2022 Revenues ($ in millions) Total revenues increased $21.7 million, or 11% year over year, driven primarily by an increase in subscription revenue, partially offset by a decrease in perpetual license revenue. We remain focused on selling subscription arrangements through both term-based software licenses and SaaS offerings. Subscription revenue increased $26.9 million, or 31% year over year, driven primarily by a 91% increase in our SaaS revenue. Term-based license revenue increased 16%, due to an increase in larger term-based license transactions (deals greater than $0.1 million) period over period. Subscription revenue accounted for 53% of total revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2023 compared to 45% for the three months ended December 31, 2022. Perpetual license revenue decreased $4.9 million, or 25% year over year. Our go to market motion is led by subscription and perpetual licenses are generally only sold in certain verticals and geographies. Perpetual license revenue accounted for 7% of total revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2023 compared to 10% for the three months ended December 31, 2022. Customer support revenue decreased $0.9 million, or 1% year over year, driven by a $7.2 million decrease in customer support revenue attached to perpetual license support renewals, partially offset by a $6.3 million increase in support allocated to term-based license arrangements. Other services revenue increased $0.6 million, or 6% year over year, primarily due to an increase in professional services delivered during the period compared to the same period in the prior year. We track total revenues on a geographic basis. Our Americas region includes the United States, Canada, and Latin America. Our International region primarily includes Europe, Middle East, Africa, Australia, India, Southeast Asia and China. Americas and International represented 58% and 42% of total revenues, respectively, for the three months ended December 31, 2023. Total revenues increased 16% and 6% year over year in the Americas and International, respectively. 19 Table of Contents Total revenues in the Americas was impacted by a 44% increase in subscription revenue, offset by a 47% decrease in perpetual license revenue, driven by the planned shift from selling perpetual licenses to selling subscription arrangements. Customer support revenue declined 4% and other services revenue increased 10% due to an increase in the delivery of professional services for the region as compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in International total revenues was primarily due to a 13% increase in subscription revenue, offset by a 12% decrease in perpetual license revenue. Customer support revenue increased 4% year over year and other services revenue was flat year over year. Our total revenues in International is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates as further discussed above in the Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations section. 20 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin ($ in millions) Three Months Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Cost of Revenues Gross Margin Cost of Revenues Gross Margin Subscription $ 15.9 86 % $ 11.7 87 % Perpetual license 0.8 95 % 0.6 97 % Customer support 15.1 80 % 14.6 81 % Other services 7.3 33 % 7.6 26 % Total $ 39.1 82 % $ 34.5 82 % Total cost of revenues increased $4.5 million, and represented 18% of our total revenues for both the three months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Cost of subscription revenue increased $4.2 million, representing 14% of our total subscription revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2023 compared to 13% for the three months ended December 31, 2022. The year over year increase is primarily the result of an increase in the cost of infrastructure related to growth in our SaaS offerings. Cost of perpetual license revenue increased $0.2 million and represented 5% of our total perpetual revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2023 compared to 3% for the three months ended December 31, 2022. Cost of customer support revenue increased $0.5 million and represented 20% of our total customer support revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2023 compared to 19% for the three months ended December 31, 2022. Cost of other services revenue decreased $0.3 million, representing 67% of our total other services revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2023 compared to 74% for the three months ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in cost of other services revenue was driven by timing of the delivery of certain professional services. 21 Table of Contents Operating Expenses ($ in millions) Sales and marketing expenses increased $4.4 million, or 5%, primarily due to increases in employee compensation and related expenses as well as marketing spend related to Commvault's SHIFT event in New York City, partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses increased $1.9 million, or 6%, driven by increases in employee compensation and related expenses, partially offset by a $0.5 million decrease in stock-based compensation. Investing in research and development remains a priority for Commvault and we anticipate continued responsible spending related to the development of our software applications and hosted services. General and administrative expenses increased $5.1 million, or 21%, driven by $1.6 million in foreign currency transaction losses and increases in employee compensation and related expenses, including an increase of $1.3 million in stock-based compensation year over year. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $1.0 million, driven by the reclassification of our owned corporate headquarters as assets held for sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $5.2 million in the three months ended December 31, 2023 compared to expense of $5.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in income tax expense compared to the prior year relates primarily to current federal and state taxes relative to the prior year quarter. 22 Table of Contents Nine months ended December 31, 2023 compared to nine months ended December 31, 2022 Revenues ($ in millions) Total revenues increased $34.8 million, or 6% year over year, driven primarily by an increase in subscription revenue, offset by decreases in perpetual license and customer support revenues. We remain focused on selling subscription arrangements through both term-based software licenses and SaaS offerings. Subscription revenue increased $56.0 million, or 22% year over year, driven primarily by a 92% increase in our SaaS revenue compared to the same period in the prior year. Term-based license revenue increased 7% year over year, due to an increase in the number of larger term-based license transactions (deals greater than $0.1 million) period over period and an increase in the average selling price of these transactions. Subscription revenue accounted for 50% of total revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2023 compared to 44% for the nine months ended December 31, 2022. Perpetual license revenue decreased $14.9 million, or 26% year over year. Our go to market motion is led by subscription and perpetual licenses are generally only sold in certain verticals and geographies. Perpetual license revenue accounted for 7% of total revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2023 compared to 10% for the nine months ended December 31, 2022. Customer support revenue decreased $6.2 million, or 3% year over year, driven by a $26.3 million decrease in customer support revenue attached to perpetual license support renewals, partially offset by a $20.1 million increase in support allocated to term-based license arrangements. Other services revenue was flat compared to the same period of the prior year. Changes in other services revenue can vary period over period primarily due to the timing professional services are delivered. We track total revenues on a geographic basis. Our Americas region includes the United States, Canada, and Latin America. Our International region primarily includes Europe, Middle East, Africa, Australia, India, Southeast Asia and China. Americas and International represented 60% and 40% of total revenues, respectively, for the nine months ended December 31, 2023. Total revenues increased 6% in both the Americas and International. Total revenues in the Americas was impacted by a 24% increase in subscription revenue, offset by a 44% decrease in perpetual license revenue, driven by the shift from selling perpetual licenses to subscription arrangements. Customer support and other services revenues declined 6% and 2%, respectively. The increase in International total revenues was primarily due to a 19% increase in subscription revenue, offset by a 14% decrease in perpetual license revenue. Customer support revenue increased 2% year over year. Other services revenue increased 3% year over year due to an increase in the delivery of professional services for the region as compared to the same period of the prior year. 23 Table of Contents Our total revenues in International is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates as further discussed above in the Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations section. 24 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin ($ in millions) Nine Months Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Cost of Revenues Gross Margin Cost of Revenues Gross Margin Subscription $ 42.9 86 % $ 31.6 88 % Perpetual license 1.9 96 % 1.9 97 % Customer support 44.9 81 % 45.1 81 % Other services 22.7 32 % 22.1 34 % Total $ 112.5 82 % $ 100.6 83 % Total cost of revenues increased $11.9 million, and represented 18% and 17% of our total revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Cost of subscription revenue increased $11.4 million, representing 14% of our total subscription revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2023 compared to 12% for the nine months ended December 31, 2022. The year over year increase is primarily the result of an increase in the cost of infrastructure related to growth in our SaaS offerings. Cost of perpetual license revenue decreased $0.1 million and represented 4% of our total perpetual revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2023 compared to 3% for the nine months ended December 31, 2022. Cost of customer support revenue decreased $0.1 million and represented 19% of our total customer support revenue for both the nine months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Cost of other services revenue increased $0.7 million, representing 68% of our total other services revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2023 compared to 66% for the nine months ended December 31, 2022. The increase in cost of other services revenue was driven by timing of the delivery of certain professional services. 25 Table of Contents Operating Expenses ($ in millions) Sales and marketing expenses increased $7.0 million, or 3%, primarily due to employee compensation and sales commissions associated with increased revenues relative to the same period in the prior year as well as increases in marketing spend related to Commvault's SHIFT event in New York City. These increases were partially offset by a $2.2 million decrease in stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses decreased $12.6 million, or 11%, driven by decreases in employee compensation and related expenses, including a $6.8 million decrease in stock-based compensation. Investing in research and development remains a priority for Commvault and we anticipate continued responsible spending related to the development of our software applications and hosted services. General and administrative expenses increased $7.5 million, or 10%, driven by $1.8 million in foreign currency transaction losses and increases in employee compensation and related expenses, including an increase of $0.9 million in stock-based compensation year over year. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $3.0 million, or 39%, driven by the reclassification of our owned corporate headquarters as assets held for sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $17.8 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2023 compared to expense of $14.6 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2022. The increase in income tax expense compared to the prior year relates primarily to current federal and state taxes driven by the increase of pre-tax income relative to the same period in the prior year. 26 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources In recent fiscal years, our principal source of liquidity has been cash provided by operations. As of December 31, 2023, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $284.3 million, of which approximately $196.7 million was held outside of the United States by our foreign legal entities. These balances are dispersed across approximately 35 international locations around the world. We believe that such dispersion meets the current and anticipated future liquidity needs of our foreign legal entities. In the event we need to repatriate funds from outside of the United States, such repatriation would likely be subject to restrictions by local laws and/or tax consequences, including foreign withholding taxes. On December 13, 2021, we entered into a five-year $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. The Credit Facility is available for share repurchases, general corporate purposes, and letters of credit. The Credit Facility contains financial maintenance covenants, including a leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio. The Credit Facility also contains certain customary events of default which would permit the lender to, among other things, declare all loans then outstanding to be immediately due and payable if such default is not cured within applicable grace periods. The Credit Facility also limits our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness, create or permit liens on assets, make acquisitions, make investments, loans or advances, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends or distributions, and engage in certain transactions with foreign affiliates. Outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility accrue interest at an annual rate equal to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate plus 1.25% subject to increases based on our actual leverage. The unused balance on the Credit Facility is also subject to a 0.25% annual interest charge subject to increases based on our actual leverage. As of December 31, 2023, there were no borrowings under the Credit Facility and we were in compliance with all covenants. On April 20, 2023, the Board of Directors approved an increase of the existing share repurchase program so that $250.0 million was available. The Board's authorization has no expiration date. For the nine months ended December 31, 2023, we have repurchased $133.7 million of our common stock. The remaining amount available under the current authorization as of December 31, 2023 was $122.3 million. Our summarized cash flow information is as follows (in thousands): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 123,813 $ 102,455 Net cash used in investing activities (4,289) (4,147) Net cash used in financing activities (125,902) (80,902) Effects of exchange rate - changes in cash 2,910 (11,444) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (3,468) $ 5,962 27 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by net income adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges and increases in deferred revenue, partially offset by increases in accounts receivable and deferred commissions. Net cash used in investing activities was related to $1.1 million for the purchase of equity securities and $3.2 million of capital expenditures. Net cash used in financing activities was the result of $133.7 million of repurchases of common shares, partially offset by $7.8 million of proceeds from employee purchases of common shares under the ESPP and the exercise of stock options. Working capital decreased $7.1 million from $140.8 million as of March 31, 2023 to $133.7 million as of December 31, 2023. The net decrease in working capital was primarily driven by increases in accrued liabilities and short-term deferred revenue, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and our cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital, income taxes, capital expenditures and potential stock repurchases for at least the next twelve months. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings or other arrangements during this period. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2023, we did not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2 of the unaudited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards.