Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q . The statements in this discussion regarding our expectations of our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview We are a leading provider of data and information management software applications and related services in terms of product breadth and functionality and market penetration. We develop, market and sell a unified suite of data and information management software applications under the Simpana brand. Our Simpana software is a platform with licensable modules that work together seamlessly, sharing a single code and common function set, to deliver Backup and Recovery, Archive, Replication, Search and Resource Management capabilities. With a single platform approach, Simpana is specifically designed to protect, manage and access data throughout its lifecycle in less time, at lower cost and with fewer resources than alternative solutions. Our products and capabilities enable our customers to deploy solutions for data protection, business continuance, corporate compliance and centralized management and reporting. We also provide our customers with a broad range of highly effective services that are delivered by our worldwide support and field operations. As of June 30, 2010, we had licensed our software applications to approximately 12,500 registered customers. Our Simpana software suite is comprised of the following five distinct data and information management software application modules: Data Protection (Back-up and Recovery), Archive, Replication, Resource Management and Search. All of our software application modules share a common platform that provides back-end services and advanced capabilities, like encryption; deduplication; content indexing; policy-based automation; data classification; e-discovery and role-based security. In addition to Back-up and Recovery, the subsequent release of our other software application modules has substantially increased our addressable market. Each application module can be used individually or in combination with other application modules from our single platform suite. In January 2009, our CommVault Simpana 8.0 software suite (Simpana 8) was made available for public release. We believe that Simpana 8, which builds on and significantly expands Simpana 7, will continue to create competitive differentiation in the data and information management related markets. Simpana 8 is the largest software release in our history and includes advances in recovery management, data reduction, virtual server protection and content organization. We believe that Simpana 8 can meet a broad spectrum of customers discovery and recovery management requirements and eliminate the need for a myriad of point level products. We currently derive the majority of our software revenue from our Backup and Recovery software application. Sales of Backup and Recovery represented approximately 66% of our total software revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 61% of our total software revenue for fiscal 2010. In addition, we derive the majority of our services revenue from customer and technical support associated with our Backup and Recovery software application. The increase in the percentage of software revenue generated by our non-Backup and Recovery software products, or Advanced Data and Information Management Products (ADIM), was primarily driven by new components and enhancements related to Simpana 7 and Simpana 8 software suites. We anticipate that ADIM software revenue as an overall percentage of our total software revenue will continue to increase in the future as we expand our domestic and international sales activities and continue to build brand awareness. However, we anticipate that we will continue to derive a majority of our software and services revenue from our Backup and Recovery software application for the next few fiscal years. More recently, the industry in which we currently operate is going through accelerating changes as the result of the introduction of new technologies such as cloud computing. We believe cloud computing, in its various forms, represents a major new long term trend in the way that applications are delivered, data is stored and information is retrieved. We believe as a result of our Simpana data and information management platform, that we are in a unique position to enhance and extend the value of our Simpana software suite by developing innovative, industry leading ways to manage data and information in the cloud. For example, in February 2010 we announced the release of an integrated cloud storage connector for our Simpana software, which will enable customers to move on-premises backup and archive data into, and out of, private and public cloud storage. 15 Table of Contents In addition to extending the Simpana platform into the cloud, we are continuing to pursue an aggressive product development program in both data and information management solutions. Our data management solutions include not only traditional backup and recovery, but also new innovations in de-duplication, data movement, virtualization, snap-based backups and enterprise reporting. Our information management innovations are primarily in the areas of archiving, eDiscovery, records management, governance and compliance. We remain focused on both the data and information management trends in the marketplace and, in fact, a material portion of our existing research and development expenses are utilized toward the development of such new technologies discussed above. While we are confident in our ability to meet these changing industry demands with Simpana 8 and potential future releases, the development, release and timing of any features or functionality remain at our sole discretion and our solutions to cloud computing or other technologies may not be widely adopted. Given the nature of the industry in which we operate, our software applications are subject to obsolescence. As noted above, we continually develop and introduce updates to our existing software applications in order to keep pace with evolving industry technologies such as cloud computing. In addition, we must address evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and competitive software applications that may render our existing software applications obsolete. For each of our software applications, we provide full support for the current generally available release and one prior release. When we declare a product release obsolete, a customer notice is delivered twelve months prior to the effective date of obsolescence announcing continuation of full product support for the first six months. We provide an additional six months of extended assistance support in which we only provide existing workarounds or fixes that do not require additional development activity. We do not have existing plans to make any of our software products permanently obsolete. Sources of Revenues We derive the majority of our total revenues from sales of licenses of our software applications. We do not customize our software for a specific end-user customer. We sell our software applications to end-user customers both directly through our sales force and indirectly through our global network of value-added reseller partners, systems integrators, corporate resellers and original equipment manufacturers. Our software revenue was 43% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 48% for the three months ended June 30, 2009. In recent fiscal years, we have generated approximately 62% of our software revenue from our existing customer base and approximately 38% of our software revenue from new customers. In addition, our total software revenue in any particular period is, to a certain extent, dependent upon our ability to generate revenues from large customer software deals, which we refer to as enterprise software transactions. We expect the number of enterprise software transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) and resulting software revenue to increase throughout fiscal 2011, although the size and timing of any particular software transaction is more difficult to forecast. Such software transactions represented approximately 44% of our total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2010 and approximately 40% of our software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2009. Software revenue generated through indirect distribution channels was approximately 83% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 81% in the three months ended June 30, 2009. Software revenue generated through direct distribution channels was approximately 17% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 19% in the three months ended June 30, 2009. The shift in the percentage of software revenue growth generated through our indirect distribution channels compared to our direct sales force in the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2009 is primarily the result of a higher percentage of enterprise software transactions in our U.S. operations that were transacted through indirect distribution channels. Deals initiated by our direct sales force are sometimes transacted through indirect channels based on end-user customer requirements, which are not always in our control and can cause this overall percentage split to vary from quarter to quarter. As such, there may be fluctuations in the dollars and percentage of software revenue generated through our direct distribution channels from time to time. We believe that the growth of our software revenue, derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force, are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We will continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term. The failure of our indirect distribution channels or our direct sales force to effectively sell our software applications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We have a worldwide reseller and an original equipment agreement with Dell. Our reseller agreement with Dell provides them the right to market, resell and distribute certain of our products to their customers. Our original equipment manufacturer agreement with Dell is discussed more fully below. Sales through our agreements with Dell accounted for 26% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 23% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2009. We have original equipment manufacturer agreements primarily with Dell and Hitachi Data Systems for them to market, sell and support our software applications and services on a stand-alone basis and/or incorporate our software applications into their own hardware products. Dell and Hitachi Data Systems have no obligation to recommend or offer our software applications exclusively or at all, and they have no minimum sales requirements and can terminate our relationship at any time. A material portion of our software revenue is generated through our original equipment manufacturer agreements. Sales through our original equipment manufacturer agreements accounted for 8% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 10% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2009. We also have non-exclusive distribution agreements covering our North American commercial markets and our U.S. Federal Government market with Arrow Enterprise Computing Solutions, Inc. (Arrow), a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc., and Avnet Technology Solutions (Avnet), a subsidiary of Avnet, Inc. Pursuant to these distribution agreements, these distributors primary role is to enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our products and services by managing our reseller partners and leveraging their own industry experience. Many of our North American resellers have been transitioned to either Arrow or Avnet. We generated approximately 23% of our total revenues through Arrow in both the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009. Avnets total revenue contribution was not material in the three months ended June 30, 2010. If Arrow or Avnet were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products or if our agreements with Arrow or Avnet were terminated, and if we were unable to take back the management of our reseller channel or find another North American distributor to replace Arrow or Avnet, then it could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues. Our services revenue is made up of fees from the delivery of customer support and other professional services, which are typically sold in connection with the sale of our software applications. Customer support agreements provide technical support and unspecified software updates on a when-and-if-available basis for an annual fee based on licenses purchased and the level of service subscribed. Other professional services include consulting, assessment and design services, implementation and post-deployment services and training, all of which to date have predominantly been sold in connection with the sale of software applications. Our services revenue was 57% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 52% for the three months ended June 30, 2009. The gross margin of our services revenue was 76.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 75.6% for the three months ended June 30, 2009. The increase in the gross margin of our services revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2009 was primarily due to a higher percentage of our services revenue being derived from customer support agreements as a result of sales to new customers and renewal agreements with our installed customer base. Overall, our services revenue has lower gross margins than our software revenue. The gross margin of our software revenue was 98.0% for three months ended June 30, 2010, and 97.5% for the three months ended June 30, 2009. An increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by services revenue may adversely affect our overall gross margins. 17 Table of Contents Description of Costs and Expenses Our cost of revenues is as follows: Cost of Software Revenue , consists primarily of third-party royalties and other costs such as media, manuals, translation and distribution costs; and Cost of Services Revenue , consists primarily of salary and employee benefit costs in providing customer support and other professional services. Our operating expenses are as follows: Sales and Marketing , consists primarily of salaries, commissions, employee benefits, stock-based compensation and other direct and indirect business expenses, including travel and related expenses, sales promotion expenses, public relations expenses and costs for marketing materials and other marketing events (such as trade shows and advertising); Research and Development , which is primarily the expense of developing new software applications and modifying existing software applications, consists principally of salaries, stock-based compensation and benefits for research and development personnel and related expenses; contract labor expense and consulting fees as well as other expenses associated with the design, certification and testing of our software applications; and legal costs associated with the patent registration of such software applications; General and Administrative , consists primarily of salaries, stock-based compensation and benefits for our executive, accounting, human resources, legal, information systems and other administrative personnel. Also included in this category are other general corporate expenses, such as outside legal and accounting services, compliance costs and insurance; and Depreciation and Amortization , consists of depreciation expense primarily for computer equipment we use for information services and in our development and test labs. We anticipate that each of the above categories of operating expenses will increase in dollar amounts, but will decline as a percentage of total revenues in the long-term. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations Sales outside the United States were approximately 36% of our total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 38% in fiscal 2010. The income statements of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions generally results in increased revenue, operating expenses and income from operations for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, our revenue, operating expenses and net income will generally decrease for our non-U.S. operations if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the corresponding fiscal 2010 period, our total revenues, cost of revenues and operating expenses from non-U.S. operations for the three months ended June 30, 2010 would have been lower by approximately $0.3 million, $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively. In addition, we are exposed to risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from cash balances, accounts receivables and intercompany accounts denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to the resulting transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of general and administrative expenses. We recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of $0.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010 and net foreign currency transaction losses of $0.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009. 18 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies In presenting our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported therein. Some of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable and appropriate. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. The following is a description of our accounting policies that we believe require subjective and complex judgments, which could potentially have a material effect on our reported financial condition or results of operations. Revenue Recognition Our revenue recognition policy is based on complex rules that require us to make significant judgments and estimates. In applying our revenue recognition policy, we must determine which portions of our revenue are recognized currently (generally software revenue) and which portions must be deferred and recognized in future periods (generally services revenue). We analyze various factors including, but not limited to, the sales of undelivered services when sold on a stand-alone basis, our pricing policies, the credit-worthiness of our customers and resellers, accounts receivable aging data and contractual terms and conditions in helping us to make such judgments about revenue recognition. Changes in judgment on any of these factors could materially impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized in a given period. Currently, we derive revenues from two primary sources, or elements: software licenses and services. Services include customer support, consulting, assessment and design services, installation services and training. A typical sales arrangement includes both of these elements. For sales arrangements involving multiple elements, we recognize revenue using the residual method. Under the residual method, we allocate and defer revenue for the undelivered elements based on relative fair value and recognize the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount deferred for the undelivered elements as revenue. The determination of fair value of the undelivered elements in multiple-element arrangements is based on the price charged when such elements are sold separately, which is commonly referred to as vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE). Our software licenses typically provide for a perpetual right to use our software and are sold on a per-copy basis. To a lesser extent, we also provide for the perpetual right to use our software as site licenses or on a capacity basis. Site licenses give the customer the additional right to deploy the software on a limited basis during a specified term. Software licenses sold on a capacity basis provide the customer with unlimited licenses of specified software products based on a defined level of terabytes of data under management. We recognize software revenue through direct sales channels upon receipt of a purchase order or other persuasive evidence and when the other three basic revenue recognition criteria are met as described in the revenue recognition section in Note 3 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We recognize software revenue through all indirect sales channels on a sell-through model. A sell-through model requires that we recognize revenue when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met and these channels complete the sale of our software products to the end-user. Revenue from software licenses sold through an original equipment manufacturer partner is recognized upon the receipt of a royalty report or purchase order from that original equipment manufacturer partner. Services revenue includes revenue from customer support and other professional services. Customer support includes software updates on a when-and-if-available basis, telephone support and bug fixes or patches. Customer support revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the customer support agreement, which is typically one year. To determine the price for the customer support element when sold separately, we primarily use historical renewal rates and, in certain cases, we use stated renewal rates. Historical renewal rates are supported by a rolling 12-month VSOE analysis in which we segregate our customer support renewal contracts into different classes based on specific criteria including, but not limited to, dollar amount of software purchased, level of customer support being provided and distribution channel. The purpose of such an analysis is to determine if the customer support element that is deferred at the time of a software sale is consistent with how it is sold on a stand-alone renewal basis. 19 Table of Contents Our other professional services include consulting, assessment and design services, installation services and training. Other professional services provided by us are not mandatory and can also be performed by the customer or a third-party. In addition to a signed purchase order, our consulting, assessment and design services and installation services are, in some cases, evidenced by a Statement of Work, which defines the specific scope of the services to be performed when sold and performed on a stand-alone basis or included in multiple-element sales arrangements. Revenues from consulting, assessment and design services and installation services are based upon a daily, weekly or monthly rate and are recognized when the services are completed. Training includes courses taught by our instructors or third-party contractors either at one of our facilities or at the customers site. Training fees are recognized after the training course has been provided. Based on our analysis of such other professional services transactions sold on a stand-alone basis, we have concluded we have established VSOE for such other professional services when sold in connection with a multiple-element sales arrangement. In summary, we have analyzed all of the undelivered elements included in our multiple-element sales arrangements and determined that we have VSOE of fair value to allocate revenues to services. Our analysis of the undelivered elements has provided us with results that are consistent with the estimates and assumptions used to determine the timing and amount of revenue recognized in our multiple-element sales arrangements. Accordingly, assuming all basic revenue recognition criteria are met, software revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software license using the residual method. We are not likely to materially change our pricing and discounting practices in the future. Our sales arrangements generally do not include acceptance clauses. However, if an arrangement does include an acceptance clause, we defer the revenue for such an arrangement and recognize it upon acceptance. Acceptance occurs upon the earliest of receipt of a written customer acceptance, waiver of customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period. Stock-Based Compensation As of June 30, 2010, we maintain two stock incentive plans, which are described more fully in Note 7 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . We account for our stock incentive plans under the fair value recognition provisions, which we adopted on April 1, 2006 using the modified prospective method. Under this transition method, our stock-based compensation costs beginning April 1, 2006 are based on a combination of the following: (1) all options granted prior to, but not vested as of April 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123 and (2) all options and restricted stock units granted subsequent to April 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value. We estimated the fair value of stock options granted using the Black-Scholes formula. The fair value of restricted stock units awarded is determined based on the number of shares granted and the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. Compensation for all share-based payment awards is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. Forfeitures are estimated based on a historical analysis of our actual stock award forfeitures. The average expected life was determined according to the simplified method, which is the mid-point between the vesting date and the end of the contractual term. We currently use the simplified method to estimate the expected term for share option grants as we do not have enough historical experience to provide a reasonable estimate due to the limited period our equity shares have been publicly traded. We will continue to use the simplified method until we have enough historical experience to provide a reasonable estimate of expected term. The risk-free interest rate is determined by reference to U.S. Treasury yield curve rates with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant. We anticipate that future grants under our stock incentive plans will include both non-qualified stock options and restricted stock units. Expected volatility through the quarter ended September 30, 2008 was calculated based on reported data for a peer group of publicly traded companies for which historical information was available. During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, we began to incorporate our own data into the expected volatility assumption. We modified our expected volatility calculation because our common stock had been publically traded for 2 years and we believe that CommVault specific volatility inputs should be included in the calculation of expected volatility. As a result, expected volatility during the quarter ended June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2009 was calculated based on a blended approach that included historical volatility of a peer group, the implied volatility of our traded options with a remaining maturity greater than six months and the historical realized volatility of our common stock from the date of our initial public offering to the respective stock option grant date. 20 Table of Contents The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model in the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 are as follows: Three Months Ended June 30, 2010 2009 Dividend yield None None Expected volatility 40% 42% 41% 42% Weighted average expected volatility 41% 41% Risk-free interest rates 2.40% 2.93% 2.30% 3.14% Expected life (in years) 6.3 6.3 The weighted average fair value of stock options granted was $10.26 per share during the three months ended June 30, 2010, and $7.44 per share during the three months ended June 30, 2009. In addition, the weighted average fair value of restricted stock units awarded was $22.91 per share during the three months ended June 30, 2010, and $14.82 per share during the three months ended June 30, 2009. As of June 30, 2010, there was approximately $24.8 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to non-vested stock option and restricted stock unit awards that is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.43 years. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure, including assessing the risks associated with tax audits, and assessing temporary differences resulting from different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities. As of June 30, 2010, we had deferred tax assets of approximately $40.3 million, which were primarily related to federal and state research tax credit carryforwards, stock-based compensation and foreign net operating loss carryforwards. We assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and to the extent that we believe recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. As of June 30, 2010, we do not maintain a valuation allowance against any of our deferred tax assets. As of June 30, 2010, we had unrecognized tax benefits of $4.4 million, all of which, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate. In addition, we have accrued interest and penalties of $1.1 million related to the unrecognized tax benefits. Interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in income tax expense. Components of the reserve are classified as either current or long-term in the Consolidated Balance Sheet based on when we expect each of the items to be settled. Accordingly, our unrecognized tax benefits of $4.4 million and the related accrued interest and penalties of $1.1 million are included in Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. During the three months ended June 30, 2010, we recognized $0.8 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits and $0.3 million of related accrued interest and penalties totaling $1.1 million as a result of the expiration of a statue of limitations in a foreign jurisdiction. We believe that it is reasonably possible that approximately $0.7 million of our currently remaining unrecognized tax benefits and approximately $0.2 million of related accrued interest and penalties may also be realized by the end of fiscal 2011 as a result of the lapse of the statue of limitations. We conduct business globally and as a result, file income tax returns in the United States and in various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world, including such major jurisdictions as the United States, Australia, Canada, Germany, Netherlands and United Kingdom. We currently have our income tax returns for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 through March 31, 2009 under audit by the State of New Jersey. 21 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the tax years in the major tax jurisdictions that remain subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities as of June 30, 2010. The years subject to income tax examination in our foreign jurisdictions cover the maximum time period with respect to these jurisdictions. Due to NOL carryforwards, in some cases the tax years continue to remain subject to examination with respect to such NOLs. Years Subject to Income Tax Jurisdiction Tax Examination U.S. Federal 2001 - Present New Jersey 2002 - Present Foreign jurisdictions 2005 - Present Software Development Costs Research and development expenditures are charged to operations as incurred. Based on our software development process, technological feasibility is established upon completion of a working model, which also requires certification and extensive testing. Costs incurred by us between completion of the working model and the point at which the product is ready for general release are immaterial. Results of Operations The following table sets forth each of our sources of revenues and costs of revenues for the specified periods as a percentage of our total revenues for those periods (due to rounding, numbers in column may not sum to totals): Three Months Ended June 30, 2010 2009 Revenues: Software 43 % 48 % Services 57 52 Total revenues 100 % 100 % Cost of revenues: Software 1 % 1 % Services 14 13 Total cost of revenues 14 % 14 % Gross margin 86 % 86 % Three Months ended June 30, 2010 compared to three months ended June 30, 2009 Revenues Total revenues increased $6.1 million, or 10%, from $60.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009 to $66.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010. Software Revenue. Software revenue decreased $0.8 million, or 3%, from $29.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009 to $28.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010. Software revenue represented 43% of our total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to 48% in the three months ended June 30, 2009. The decrease in software revenue is primarily due to lower software revenue derived from our foreign locations, which decreased 7% in the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2009. Software revenue from our U.S. operations was flat in the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2009. 22 Table of Contents Software revenue derived from enterprise software transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) represented approximately 44% of our software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2010 and approximately 40% of our software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2009. As a result, enterprise software transactions increased by $0.8 million, or 7%, in the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2009. This increase was primarily driven by a higher average dollar amount of such transactions, partially offset by a 6% decrease in the total number of transactions of this type. The average dollar amount of such transactions was approximately $250,000 in the three months ended June 30, 2010 and approximately $220,000 in the three months ended June 30, 2009. The increase in enterprise software transactions was offset by a 9% decrease in software transactions less than $0.1 million as a result of lower software revenue transactions of this type from both our U.S. operations and foreign locations. Software revenue through our direct sales force decreased $0.6 million, or 10%, in the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2009, and software revenue derived from our indirect distribution channel (resellers and original equipment manufacturers) decreased $0.2 million, or 1%, in the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2009. Software revenue that is derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We will continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term. Services Revenue. Services revenue increased $6.9 million, or 22%, from $31.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009 to $38.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010. Services revenue represented 57% of our total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to 52% in the three months ended June 30, 2009. The increase in services revenue is primarily due to a $6.1 million increase in revenue from customer support agreements as a result of software sales to new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base. Cost of Revenues Total cost of revenues increased $1.2 million, or 14%, from $8.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009 to $9.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010. Total cost of revenues represented 14% of our total revenues in both the three months ended June 30, 2010 and the three months ended June 30, 2009. Cost of Software Revenue. Cost of software revenue decreased approximately $0.2 million, or 25%, from $0.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009 to $0.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010. Cost of software revenue represented 2% of our total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 3% of our total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2009. The decrease in cost of software revenue is primarily due to lower distribution, third-party media and royalty costs as a result of the lower software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2009. Cost of Services Revenue. Cost of services revenue increased $1.4 million, or 18%, from $7.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009 to $9.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010. Cost of services revenue represented 24% of our services revenue in both the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009. The increase in cost of services revenue is primarily the result of higher employee compensation and travel expenses totaling approximately $1.0 million as well as a $0.1 million increase in third-party outsourcing costs to facilitate our services revenue growth. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased $5.4 million, or 18%, from $30.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009 to $35.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010. The increase is primarily due to a $3.2 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses attributable to the expansion of our sales force from the prior year. Sales and marketing expenses also increased due to a $0.9 million increase in advertising and marketing related expenses as well as a $0.8 million increase in travel and related expenses primarily due to higher headcount. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues increased to 54% in the three months ended June 30, 2010 from 50% in the three months ended June 30, 2009. 23 Table of Contents Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased $1.0 million, or 13%, from $7.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009 to $8.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010. The increase is primarily due to $0.6 million of higher employee compensation and related expenses resulting from the expansion of our engineering group and a $0.3 million increase in legal expenses associated with patent registration of our intellectual property. Research and development expenses as a percentage of total revenues were relatively flat at 13% in both the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009. Investing in research and development has been a priority for CommVault, and we anticipate continued spending related to the development of our data and information management software applications. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $0.8 million, or 12%, from $6.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009 to $7.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase is primarily due to a $0.3 million increase in employee and related compensation due to higher headcount, a $0.3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and a $0.2 million increase in compliance and legal costs. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues were relatively flat at 12% in both the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense was relatively flat at $0.9 million in both the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $0.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010 compared to $3.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009. The effective tax rate in the three months ended June 30, 2010 was 7% as compared to 60% in the three months ended June 30, 2009. The effective rate in the three months ended June 30, 2010 is lower than the expected federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the reversal of certain tax reserves totaling $1.1 million as a result of the expiration of a statue of limitations in a foreign jurisdiction. The effective rate in the three months ended June 30, 2009 is higher than the expected federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes, tax return to accrual adjustments and the correction of a prior period error. During the quarter ended June 30, 2009, we identified a prior period error of approximately $0.9 million related to estimated foreign tax credits associated with our Netherlands branch that were improperly recorded as deferred tax assets during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008. We concluded that this error is not material to any annual fiscal period. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents balance of $172.9 million primarily consisted of money market funds. In addition, we have approximately $7.5 million of short-term investments invested in certificates of deposit at June 30, 2010. In recent fiscal years, our principal sources of liquidity have been cash provided by operations. Historically, our principle source of liquidity had been cash provided by private placements of preferred equity securities and common stock and cash provided from our public offerings of common stock. On July 9, 2009, we entered into an amended and restated credit facility in which we can borrow up to $30.0 million over a three year period. Borrowings under the facility are available to repurchase our common stock under our share repurchase program and to provide for working capital and general corporate purposes. Repayments of principal amounts borrowed under the amended and restated credit facility is required at the maturity date of July 9, 2012. The credit facility also requires that certain financial covenants be met on a quarterly basis. The amended and restated credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a quick ratio and minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), as defined in the credit agreement. Borrowings under the amended and restated credit facility bear interest, at our option, at either i) LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 2.25% to 2.75% or ii) the banks base rate plus a margin ranging from 1.75% to 2.25%. The banks base rate is defined as the higher of the federal funds rate plus 1.5%, one-month LIBOR plus 1.5%, or the lenders prime rate. As of June 30, 2010, we were in compliance with all required covenants, and there were no outstanding balances on the amended and restated credit facility. 24 Table of Contents As of June 30, 2010, our Board of Directors had approved a stock repurchase plan in which we were authorized to repurchase up to a total of $80.0 million of our common stock through March 31, 2011. On July 29, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a $40.0 million increase to our existing stock repurchase program and extended the expiration of the stock repurchase plan to March 31, 2012. Under our stock repurchase program, repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to unissued status. Our stock repurchase program has been funded by our existing cash and cash equivalent balances as well as cash flows provided by our operations. During the three months ended June 30, 2010, we repurchased 0.6 million shares of common stock under our share repurchase plan with a total cost of $12.9 million. As of June 30, 2010, we have repurchased approximately $53.1 million, or 3.5 million shares, under our stock repurchase plan at an average purchase price of $15.28 per share. As a result, we may repurchase an additional $66.9 million of our common stock through March 31, 2012. The primary business reason for our stock repurchase program is to reduce the dilutive impact on our common shares outstanding associated with stock option exercises and our previous public and private stock offerings. Under our stock repurchase program, we have bought back approximately 8.0% of the common stock that was outstanding at the time the stock repurchase program was announced. In addition, at the time we implemented our stock repurchase program in late fiscal 2008 we believed that our share price was undervalued and the best use for a portion of our cash balance was to repurchase some of our outstanding common stock. Our future stock repurchase activity is subject to the business judgment of our management and Board of Directors, taking into consideration our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and other anticipated capital requirements or investment alternatives. Our summarized annual cash flow information is as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2010 2009 Cash provided by operating activities $ 15,919 $ 12,953 Net Cash used in investing activities (3,274 ) (913 ) Net Cash provided by (used in) financing activities (7,942 ) 687 Effects of exchange rate-changes in cash (1,331 ) 1,282 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 3,372 $ 14,009 Net cash provided by operating activities was $15.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010 and $13.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009. In the three months ended June 30, 2010, cash generated by operating activities was primarily due to net income adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges, and a decrease in accounts receivable as a result of strong collection efforts during the quarter and lower sequential revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. In the three months ended June 30, 2009, cash generated by operating activities was primarily due to net income adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges, a decrease in accounts receivable as a result of strong collection efforts and an increase in deferred services revenue. Net cash used in investing activities was $3.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2010 and $0.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009. In the three months ended June 30, 2010, cash used in investing activities was due to purchases of short-term investments of $2.5 million as well as the purchase of property and equipment of $0.8 million as we continue to invest in and enhance our global infrastructure. In the three months ended June 30, 2009, cash used in investing activities was due to purchases of property and equipment related to the growth in our business. We anticipate that as our business grows we will continue to explore opportunities to invest in our global infrastructure. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(7.9) million in the three months ended June 30, 2010 and $0.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2009. The cash used in financing activities in the three months ended June 30, 2010 was due to $12.9 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock under our repurchase program, partially offset by $4.4 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $0.6 million of excess tax benefits recognized as a result of the stock option exercises. The cash used in financing activities in the three months ended June 30, 2009 was due to $0.5 million proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $0.2 million of excess tax benefits recognized as a result of the stock option exercises. 25 Table of Contents Working capital decreased $1.5 million from $143.2 million as of March 31, 2010 to $141.7 million as of June 30, 2010. The decrease in working capital is primarily due to a $12.5 million decrease in accounts receivable, partially offset by a $5.9 million increase in cash and short-term investments and a $4.3 million decrease in accrued liabilities. The decrease in accounts receivable of $12.5 million is primarily due to the sequential revenue decrease in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The increase in cash and short-term investments of $5.9 million was negatively impacted by the repurchase of approximately $12.9 million of our common stock under our share repurchase program. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, cash from operations and our $30.0 million credit facility will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures and potential stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings or other arrangements during this period. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2010, other than our operating leases, we do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Indemnifications Certain of our software licensing agreements contain certain provisions that indemnify our customers from any claim, suit or proceeding arising from alleged or actual intellectual property infringement. These provisions continue in perpetuity along with our software licensing agreements. We have never incurred a liability relating to one of these indemnification provisions in the past and we believe that the likelihood of any future payout relating to these provisions is remote. Therefore, we have not recorded a liability during any period related to these indemnification provisions. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance requiring additional disclosure for significant transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 fair value measurements and the reasons for such transfers. This new guidance also requires separate disclosure information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements (on a gross basis rather than as one net number) in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). In addition, this guidance clarifies existing disclosures regarding fair value measurement for each class of assets and liabilities and the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements that fall in either Level 2 or Level 3. The changes under this new guidance were effective for the quarterly period beginning January 1, 2010, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the roll forward of activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which are effective for our fiscal year beginning April 1, 2011. We believe that the adoption of these new accounting pronouncements will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.