Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The statements in this discussion regarding our expectations of our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 . Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview Commvault is a provider of data and information management software applications and related services. Commvault was incorporated in 1996 as a Delaware corporation. The Commvault software platform is an enterprise level, integrated data and information management solution, built from the ground up on a single platform and unified code base. All software functionality share the same back-end technologies to deliver the benefits of a holistic approach to protecting, managing, and accessing data. The software addresses many aspects of data management in the enterprise, while providing scalability and control of data and information. In fiscal 2018, we also started selling appliances that integrate the our software with hardware and address a wide-range of business needs and use cases, ranging from support for remote or branch offices with limited IT staff up to large corporate data centers. We also provide our customers with a broad range of professional services that are delivered by our worldwide support and field operations. As of December 31, 2017 , we had licensed our software applications to over 26,000 registered customers. Our software licenses typically provide for a perpetual right to use our software and are sold on a per terabyte capacity basis, per-copy, as site licenses or as a solution set. Prior to fiscal 2018, an insignificant amount of our revenue has been sold under subscription, or term based, license arrangements. In these arrangements the customer has the right to use the software over a designated period of time. During fiscal 2018, we expect revenue from subscription arrangements to become a more significant portion of our total revenue compared to historical periods. In recent years, the majority of our software and products have been sold on a capacity basis and we expect this to remain true in the near future. During the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , approximately 67% of software and product revenue was sold on a capacity basis. This compares to approximately 69% of software and products revenue was sold on a capacity basis during fiscal 2017. Software licenses sold on a capacity basis provide the customer with unlimited licenses of specified software products based on a defined level of terabytes of data under management. As a result, when we sell our platform through a capacity license, certain of the various functionalities discussed below are bundled into one capacity based price. Site licenses give the customer the additional right to deploy the software on a limited basis during a specified term. Our solution sets are generally sold on a per unit basis such as per virtual machine for our virtual machine backup, recovery and cloud management solution set; per mailbox for our email archive solution set, and per user for our endpoint data protection solution set. These solution sets are purpose-built offerings designed to accelerate private, public and hybrid cloud adoption that seamlessly integrate with our single platform software, offering a path towards holistic data management while allowing customers to utilize functionality that addresses the point solution requirements their business dictates. We primarily sell solution sets for virtual machine backup, recovery and cloud management; endpoint data protection; and email archive. The industry in which we currently operate continues to go through accelerating changes as the result of compounding data growth and the introduction of new technologies. We remain focused on both the data and information management trends in the marketplace and, in fact, a material portion of our existing research and development expenses are utilized toward the development of such new technologies. While we are confident in our ability to meet these changing industry demands with our Commvault suite and potential future releases, the development, release and timing of any features or functionality remain at our sole discretion and our solutions or other technologies may not be widely adopted. Given the nature of the industry in which we operate, our software applications are subject to obsolescence. We continually develop and introduce updates to our existing software applications in order to keep pace with evolving industry technologies. In addition, we must address evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and competitive software applications that may render our existing software applications obsolete. For each of our software applications, we provide full support for the current generally available release and one prior release. When we declare a product release obsolete, a customer notice is delivered twelve months prior to the effective date of obsolescence announcing continuation of full product support for the first six months. We provide an additional six months of extended assistance support in which we only provide existing workarounds or fixes that do not require additional development activity. We do not have existing plans to make any of our software products permanently obsolete. 20 Table of Contents Sources of Revenues We derive a significant portion of our total revenues from sales of licenses of our software applications and products. We do not customize our software for a specific end-user customer. We sell our software applications and products to end-user customers both directly through our sales force and indirectly through our global network of value-added reseller partners, systems integrators, corporate resellers and original equipment manufacturers. Our software and products revenue was 44% of our total revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 . In recent fiscal periods, we have generated approximately three-quarters of our software and products revenue from our existing customer base and approximately one-quarter of our software and products revenue from new customers. In addition, our total software and products revenue in any particular period is, to a certain extent, dependent upon our ability to generate revenues from large customer software and products deals, which we refer to as enterprise transactions. Enterprise transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) represented approximately 59% and 55% of our total software and products revenue in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Software and products revenue generated through indirect distribution channels was 88% of total software and products revenue in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . Software and products revenue generated through direct distribution channels was approximately 12% of total software and products revenue in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . The dollar value of software and products revenue generated through indirect distribution channels increased approximately $12.0 million , or 6% , in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . The dollar value of software and products revenue generated through direct distribution channels increased approximately $3.7 million , or 15% , in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . Deals initiated by our direct sales force are sometimes transacted through indirect channels based on end-user customer requirements, which are not always in our control and can cause this overall percentage split to vary from period-to-period. As such, there may be fluctuations in the dollars and percentage of software and products revenue generated through our direct distribution channels from time-to-time. We believe that the growth of our software and products revenue, derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force, are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We will continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term. The failure of our indirect distribution channels or our direct sales force to effectively sell our software applications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our primary original equipment manufacturer agreement is with Hitachi Data Systems ("HDS") and allows them to market, sell and support our software applications and services on a stand-alone basis and/or incorporate our software applications into their own hardware products. Our original equipment manufacturer partners, including HDS, have no obligation to recommend or offer our software applications exclusively or at all, and they have no minimum sales requirements and can terminate our relationship at any time. Sales through our original equipment manufacturer agreements, accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 15% of our total revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . We also have non-exclusive distribution agreements covering our North American commercial markets and our U.S. Federal Government market with Arrow Enterprise Computing Solutions, Inc. ("Arrow"), a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc., and Tech Data Corporation (formerly Avnet Technology) ("Tech Data"). Pursuant to these distribution agreements, these distributors primary role is to enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our products and services by managing our reseller partners and leveraging their own industry experience. We generated approximately 37% of our total revenues through Arrow in both the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. If Arrow were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products or if our agreement with Arrow was terminated, and if we were unable to take back the management of our reseller channel or find another North American distributor to replace Arrow, then it could have a material adverse effect on our future business. Our services revenue was 56% of our total revenues for both the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Our services revenue is made up of fees from the delivery of customer support and other professional services, which are typically sold in connection with the sale of our software applications. Customer support agreements provide technical support and unspecified software updates on a when-and-if-available basis for an annual fee based on licenses purchased and the level of service subscribed. Other professional services include consulting, assessment and design services, installation services and customer education. 21 Table of Contents Most of our customer support agreements are priced as a percentage of the related net software purchased and are for a one year term. As the end of the annual period approaches, we pursue the renewal of the agreement with the customer. Historically, customer support renewals have represented a significant portion of our total revenue. Because of this characteristic of our business, if our customers choose not to renew their support agreements with us on beneficial terms, or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations Sales outside the United States were approximately 46% of our total revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 43% of our total revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . The results of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions generally results in increased revenue, operating expenses and income from operations for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, our revenue, operating expenses and net income will generally decrease for our non-U.S. operations if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the three months ended December 31, 2016 our software and products revenue would have been lower by $3.3 million, our services revenue would have been lower by $2.3 million, our cost of sales would have been lower by $0.6 million and our operating expenses would have been lower by $3.0 million from non-U.S. operations for the three months ended December 31, 2017 . Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the nine months ended December 31, 2016 our software and products revenue would have been lower by $3.5 million, our services revenue would have been lower by $2.3 million, our cost of sales would have been lower by $0.9 million and our operating expenses would have been lower by $1.5 million from non-U.S. operations for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 . In addition, we are exposed to risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from cash balances, accounts receivables and intercompany accounts denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to the resulting transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of general and administrative expenses. We recognized a net foreign currency transaction losses of $0.2 million and less than $0.1 million in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 , respectively. We recognized a net foreign currency transaction loss of less than $0.1 million and gain of $0.4 million in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2016 , respectively. Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could have reasonably used different accounting estimates, and in other instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period-to-period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application, while in other cases, significant judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting standards that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. We consider these policies requiring significant management judgment to be critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are: Revenue Recognition; Stock-Based Compensation; Accounting for Income Taxes Software Development Costs Deferred Commissions Costs 22 Table of Contents The discussion below includes changes to our critical accounting policies that have occurred in fiscal 2018. Revenue Recognition We account for revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Our revenue recognition policies require us to make significant judgments and estimates. In applying our revenue recognition policy, we must determine which portions of our revenue are recognized currently (generally software and products revenue) and which portions must be deferred and recognized in future periods (generally services revenue). We analyze various factors including, but not limited to, the selling price of undelivered services when sold on a stand-alone basis, our pricing policies, the credit-worthiness of our customers, and contractual terms and conditions in helping us to make such judgments about revenue recognition. Changes in judgment on any of these factors could materially impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized in a given period. We derive revenue from two primary sources: software and products, and services. Services include customer support (software updates and technical support), consulting, assessment and design services, installation services and customer education. A typical contract includes both licenses and services. Our software licenses typically provide for a perpetual right to use our software. We also sell term-based software licenses that expire, which are referred to as subscription arrangements. We do not customize its software and installation services are not required. The software is delivered before related services are provided and is functional without professional services, updates and technical support. We have concluded that our software license is functional intellectual property that is distinct as the user can benefit from the software on its own. Software and product revenue is typically recognized when the software is delivered and/or made available for download as this is the point the user of the software can direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from the functional intellectual property. We do not recognize software revenue related to the renewal of subscription software licenses earlier than the beginning of the subscription period. In fiscal 2018, we also started selling appliances that integrate our software with hardware and address a wide-range of business needs and use cases, ranging from support for remote or branch offices with limited IT staff up to large corporate data centers. Revenue related to appliances is recognized when control of the appliances passes to the customer; typically upon delivery. Revenue to date related to appliances has not been significant. Services revenue includes revenue from customer support and other professional services. Customer support includes software updates on a when-and-if-available basis, telephone support, integrated web-based support and bug fixes or patches. The Company sells its customer support contracts as a percentage of net software purchases the support is related to. Customer support revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the customer support agreement, which is typically one year. Other professional services include consulting, assessment and design services, installation services and customer education. Customer education services include courses taught by our instructors or third-party contractors. Revenue related to other professional services and customer education services is typically recognized as the services are performed. Most of our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations. For these contracts, we account for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices of software and products are typically estimated using the residual approach. Standalone selling prices of services are typically estimated based on observable transactions when these services are sold on a standalone basis. 23 Table of Contents Our typical performance obligations include the following: Performance Obligation When Performance Obligation is Typically Satisfied When Payment is Typically Due How Standalone Selling Price is Typically Estimated Software and Products Revenue Software Licenses Upon shipment or made available for download (point in time) Within 90 days of shipment except for certain subscription licenses which are paid for over time Residual approach Appliances When control of the appliances passes to the customer; typically upon delivery Within 90 days of delivery except for certain subscriptions which are paid for over time Residual approach Customer Support Revenue Software Updates Ratably over the course of the support contract (over time) At the beginning of the contract period Observable in renewal transactions Customer Support Ratably over the course of the support contract (over time) At the beginning of the contract period Observable in renewal transactions Professional Services Other Professional Services (except for education services) As work is performed (over time) Within 90 days of services being performed Observable in transactions without multiple performance obligations Education Services When the class is taught (point in time) Within 90 days of services being performed Observable in transactions without multiple performance obligations Stock-Based Compensation and Accounting for Income Taxes In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (Topic 718), which simplifies the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including related accounting for income taxes, forfeitures, and classification in the statement of cash flows. In connection with the adoption of this guidance we elected an accounting policy to account for forfeitures as they occur. The guidance also requires excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recorded as income tax benefit or expense in the statement of income when the awards vest or are settled, and eliminates the requirement to reclassify cash flows related to excess tax benefits from operating activities to financing activities on the statement of cash flows. Deferred Commissions Cost Sales commissions and related payroll taxes earned by our employees are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. Our typical contracts include performance obligations related to software licenses, software updates, customer support and other professional services. In these contracts, incremental costs of obtaining a contract are allocated to the performance obligations based on the relative estimated standalone selling prices and then recognized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer of the goods or services to which the asset relates. We do not pay commissions on annual renewals of contracts for software updates and customer support for perpetual licenses. The costs allocated to software are expensed at the time of sale, when revenue for the functional software license is recognized. The costs allocated to software updates and customer support for perpetual licenses are amortized ratably over a period of approximately five years, the expected period of benefit of the asset capitalized. We currently estimate a period of five years is appropriate based on consideration of historical average customer life and the estimated useful life of the underlying software sold as part of the transaction. The costs related to professional services are amortized within one quarter following the date of the related software sale, which is typically the period the related professional services are provided and revenue is recognized. If we were to change our estimate of the period of benefit of these deferred costs it would impact our results of operations. Costs related to software updates and support for term-based, or subscription software licenses, are limited to the contractual period of the arrangement as we intend to pay a commensurate commission upon renewal of the subscription license and related updates and support. 24 Table of Contents There have been no other significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2017 . In addition, please see Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our fiscal 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for a description of our accounting policies. Results of Operations Three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to three months ended December 31, 2016 Revenues Total revenues increased $13.3 million , or 8% , from $167.1 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016 to $180.4 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017 . Software and Products Revenue. Software and products revenue increased $2.8 million , or 4% , from $78.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016 to $81.4 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017 . Software and products revenue represented 45% of our total revenues in the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to 47% of total revenues in the three months ended December 31, 2016 . We track software and products revenue on a geographic basis. The geographic regions that are tracked are the Americas (United States, Canada, Latin America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and APAC (Australia, New Zealand, Southeast Asia, China). Americas, EMEA and APAC represented 50%, 36% and 14% of total software and products revenue, respectively, for the three months ended December 31, 2017 . The year over year growth of software and products revenue in EMEA and APAC was 12% and, 5%, respectively, which was partially offset by a 2% decline in the Americas. Americas enterprise transaction revenue decreased by 7% as a result of a decrease in the number of transactions which was partially offset by an increase in non-enterprise revenue. EMEA software and products revenue increased primarily due to a 35% increase in enterprise transaction revenue. The increase in enterprise transaction revenue was primarily the result of an increase in the number enterprise revenue transactions. Year over year software and products revenue growth in EMEA was positively impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. dollar weakened against the Euro and British pound sterling. Using average foreign exchange rates from the third quarter of fiscal 2017 , third quarter fiscal 2018 EMEA software and products revenue would have increased 3% compared to an actual increase of 12% . The increase in APAC software and products revenue was primarily the result of an increase in non-enterprise revenue. Our software and products revenue in EMEA and APAC is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates as more fully discussed above in the Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations section. Software and products revenue derived from enterprise transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) represented approximately 57% of our software and products revenue in the three months ended December 31, 2017 and approximately 56% of our software and products revenue in the three months ended December 31, 2016 . Enterprise transactions increased by $1.8 million , or 4% , in the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was driven by a 3% increase in the average dollar amount of enterprise transactions. The average dollar amount of such transactions was approximately $268,000 in the three months ended December 31, 2017 and approximately $261,000 in the three months ended December 31, 2016 . 25 Table of Contents Services Revenue. Services revenue increased $10.5 million , or 12% , from $88.4 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016 to $98.9 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017 . Services revenue represented 55% of our total revenues in the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 53% in the three months ended December 31, 2016 . The increase in services revenue is due to a $8.7 million increase in revenue from customer support agreements as a result of software sales to new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base and includes a $2.3 million increase due to the result of a weakening of the US dollar versus foreign currencies. Cost of Revenues . Total cost of revenues increased $3.8 million , or 18% , from $21.2 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016 to $25.0 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017 . Total cost of revenues represented 14% of our total revenues in the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 13% in the three months ended December 31, 2016 . An increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by software revenue has the impact of improving our overall gross margins. The costs of sales related to our appliances are recorded in the cost of software and products revenue. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased $8.1 million , or 8% , from $97.1 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016 to $105.1 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017 . The increase is due to a $5.5 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses mainly attributable to the expansion of our sales force from the prior year, a $0.4 million increase in stock-based compensation and a $0.9 million increase in marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 58% in both the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 . Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased $2.8 million , or 13% , from $21.2 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016 to $24.0 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017 . The increase is primarily due to an increase in salary and related expenses resulting from the expansion of our engineering group. Research and development expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 13% in both the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 . Investing in research and development has been a priority for Commvault, and we anticipate continued spending related to the development of our data and information management software applications. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses decreased $1.2 million , or 6% , from $21.6 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016 to $20.4 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017 . The decrease is the result of a decrease in stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses in the three months ended December 31, 2017 includes $0.2 million of net foreign currency transaction losses. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 11% in the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 13% in the three months ended December 31, 2016 . Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense increased by $0.3 million from $2.2 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016 to $2.5 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017 . Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $62.6 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to an expense of $1.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2016 . The increase in income tax expense was primarily the result of the combined impact of the lower U.S. corporate income tax rate on net deferred tax assets and recording a full valuation allowance against the remaining value of net deferred tax assets. Impact of U.S. Tax Reform The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act") was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Act reduces the US federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% , requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. As of December 31, 2017, we have not completed the accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act; however, as described below, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on existing deferred tax balances. These amounts are provisional and subject to change. The most significant impact of the legislation for the Company was a $24.3 million reduction of the value of net deferred tax assets (which represent future tax benefits) as a result of lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% . The Act also includes a requirement to pay a one-time transition tax on the cumulative value of earnings and profits that were previously not repatriated for U.S. income tax purposes. We have not made sufficient progress on the transition tax analysis to reasonably estimate the effects, and therefore, have not recorded provisional amounts. However, based on analysis to date the one-time transition tax is not expected to be material. No additional income taxes have been provided for any remaining undistributed 26 Table of Contents foreign earnings not subject to the transition tax, or any additional outside basis difference inherent in these entities, as these amounts continue to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Valuation Allowance Net deferred tax assets arise due to the recognition of income and expense items for tax purposes, which differ from those used for financial statement purposes. ASC 740, Income Taxes, provides for the recognition of deferred tax assets if realization of such assets is more likely than not. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company considered all available objective and verifiable evidence both positive and negative, including historical levels of pre-tax income (loss) both on a consolidated basis and tax reporting entity basis, legislative developments, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future pre-tax income, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The Company currently estimates that as of March 31, 2018 both the consolidated entity and its U.S. entity will have generated a cumulative three year pre-tax loss. As a result of this analysis, the Company determined that it is more likely than not that it will not realize the benefits of its gross deferred tax assets and therefore has recorded a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying value of these gross deferred tax assets, net of the impact of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, to zero . Nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to nine months ended December 31, 2016 Revenues Total revenues increased $36.2 million , or 8% , from $478.3 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 to $514.5 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 . Software and Products Revenue. Software and products revenue increased $15.8 million , or 7% , from $212.5 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 to $228.2 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 . Software and products revenue represented 44% of our total revenues in both the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Americas, EMEA and APAC represented 53%, 33% and 14% of total software and products revenue, respectively, for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 . The year-over-year change in software and products revenue in the Americas was flat, and growth in EMEA and APAC was 22% and 8% , respectively. Americas enterprise transaction revenue increased 3% due to an increase in the average dollar value of transactions but was offset by a decrease in non-enterprise transaction revenue. EMEA software and products revenue increased as a result of a significant increase in enterprise transaction revenue. The significant increase in enterprise transaction revenue was driven by an increase in both the average dollar value and volume of such transactions. The increase in APAC software and products revenue was the result of an increase in revenue from both enterprise and non-enterprise revenue transactions. Our software and products revenue in EMEA and APAC is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates as more fully discussed above in the Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations section. Software and products revenue derived from enterprise transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) represented approximately 59% of our software and products revenue in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and approximately 55% of our software and products revenue in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . Enterprise transaction revenue increased by $18.7 million , or 16% , in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was driven by a 20% increase in the average dollar amount of such transactions partially offset by a 3% decline in the number of transactions. The average sales price was approximately $305,000 in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and approximately $254,000 in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . Software and products revenue derived from transactions less than $0.1 million decreased $3.0 million , or 3% , in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . Services Revenue. Services revenue increased $20.5 million , or 8% , from $265.8 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 to $286.3 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 . Services revenue represented 56% of our total revenues in both the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. The increase in services revenue is due to a $19.7 million increase in revenue from customer support agreements as a result of software sales to new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base. Cost of Revenues . Total cost of revenues increased $6.1 million , or 10% , from $63.8 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 to $69.9 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 . The gross margin of our services revenue 27 Table of Contents was 77% for both the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 . Overall, our services revenue has lower gross margins than our software and products revenue. An increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by software revenue has the impact of improving our overall gross margins. The costs of sales related to our appliances are recorded in the cost of software and products revenue. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased $21.6 million , or 8% , from $284.0 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 to $305.6 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 . The increase is primarily due to a $17.5 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses mainly attributable to the expansion of our sales force from the prior year and a $2.8 million increase in stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 59% in both the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 . Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased $8.8 million , or 14% , from $60.7 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 to $69.5 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 . The increase is due to salary and related expenses resulting from the expansion of our engineering group. Research and development expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 13% in both the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 . Investing in research and development has been a priority for Commvault, and we anticipate continued spending related to the development of our data and information management software applications. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $5.0 million , or 8% , from $62.9 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 to $67.9 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 . The increase is primarily the result of an increase in employee compensation and related expenses. Expenses in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 includes less than $0.1 million of net foreign currency transaction losses compared to $0.4 million of net foreign currency transaction gains in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 13% in both the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 . Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense increased by $0.8 million from $6.4 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 to $7.2 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 . Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $55.3 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 compared to $0.8 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . The increase in income tax expense was primarily the result of the combined impact of the lower U.S. corporate income tax rate on deferred tax assets and recording a valuation allowance against the remaining value of net deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2017 , our cash and cash equivalents balance of $314.5 million primarily consisted of cash and money market funds. In addition, as of December 31, 2017 we have short-term investments invested in U.S. Treasury Bills totaling $131.0 million . In recent fiscal years, our principal source of liquidity has been cash provided by operations. As of December 31, 2017 , the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States by our foreign legal entities was approximately $184 million . These balances are dispersed across many international locations around the world. In the event we repatriated funds from outside of the United States, such repatriation could be subject to restrictions by local laws and/or tax consequences including foreign withholding taxes. As a result of recent corporate tax reform in the United States, we are obligated to pay a one time income tax on the cumulative total of any foreign earnings which have not been repatriated. We currently estimate this one time tax will be immaterial. Prospectively, we believe that as a result of this tax reform, we will likely be able to repatriate foreign earnings without paying U.S. income tax. However, we will remain subject to restrictions by local laws and/or tax consequences including foreign withholding taxes. 28 Table of Contents We have a five-year $250 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) that expires in June 2019. The Credit Facility is available for share repurchases, general corporate purposes, and letters of credit. The Credit Facility contains financial maintenance covenants including a leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio. The Credit Facility also contains certain customary events of default which would permit the lenders to, among other things, declare all loans then outstanding to be immediately due and payable if such default is not cured within applicable grace periods. The Credit Facility also limits our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness, create or permit liens on assets, make acquisitions, make investments, loans or advances, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends or distributions, and engage in certain transactions with foreign affiliates. Outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility accrue interest at an annual rate equal to London Interbank Offered Rate plus 1.50% subject to increases based on actual leverage. The unused balance on the Credit Facility is also subject to a 0.25% annual interest charge subject to increases based on our actual leverage. As of December 31, 2017 , there were no borrowings under the Credit Facility and we believe we are in compliance with all covenants. During the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , we repurchased $91.3 million of common stock shares under our share repurchase program. Under our stock repurchase program, repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to unissued status. Our stock repurchase program has been funded by our existing cash and cash equivalent balances as well as cash flows provided by our operations. On January 17, 2018, the Board of Directors extended the expiration date of the share repurchase program to March 31, 2019 and authorized a $100.0 million increase to the existing share repurchase program so that $133.7 million is now available. Our future stock repurchase activity is subject to the business judgment of our management and Board of Directors, taking into consideration our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and other anticipated capital requirements or investment alternatives. Our stock repurchase program reduces the dilutive impact on our common shares outstanding associated with stock option exercises and our previous public and private stock offerings through the repurchase of common stock. Our summarized cash flow information is as follows (in thousands): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 60,828 $ 71,054 Net cash used in investing activities (15,597 ) (26,160 ) Net cash used in financing activities (73,596 ) (5,950 ) Effects of exchange rate-changes in cash 13,368 (10,639 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (14,997 ) $ 28,305 Net cash provided by operating activities was $60.8 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and $71.1 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . In the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to net loss adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges, and an increase in deferred revenue. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease in accrued liabilities and increases in both accounts receivable and other current assets. Cash flow from operations in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 also includes $7.9 of excess tax benefits for exercised stock options and vested restricted stock units. In prior periods excess tax benefits were classified as financing activities. In the nine months ended December 31, 2016 , cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to net loss adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges, and an increase in deferred revenue and accrued expenses. Net cash used in investing activities was $15.6 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and $26.2 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . In the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , cash used in investing activities was related to $10.3 million in net purchases of U.S. Treasury Bills and $5.3 million of capital expenditures. In the nine months ended December 31, 2016 , cash used in investing activities was related to $21.7 million in net purchases of U.S. Treasury Bills and $4.5 million of capital expenditures. 29 Table of Contents Net cash used in financing activities was $73.6 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and $6.0 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . The cash used in financing activities in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was the result of $91.3 million of repurchases of common shares partially offset by $17.7 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and our employee stock purchase program. The cash used in financing activities in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 was due to $25.0 million of common stock repurchases, partially offset by $14.3 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and purchases under the employee stock purchase plan as well as $4.8 million of excess tax benefits recognized as a result of the stock option exercises and restricted stock vesting. As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, excess tax benefits are now included in cash from operating activities. Working capital decreased $8.6 million from $318.1 million as of March 31, 2017 to $309.5 million as of December 31, 2017 . The net decrease in working capital is due primarily to our use of cash to repurchase common shares offset by cash flow from operations and proceeds from the exercise of stock options and purchases under the employee stock purchase plan . We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and our cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital, income taxes, capital expenditures and potential stock repurchases for at least the next twelve months. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings or other arrangements during this period. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2017 , other than our operating leases, we do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Indemnifications Certain of our software licensing agreements contain certain provisions that indemnify our customers from any claim, suit or proceeding arising from alleged or actual intellectual property infringement. These provisions continue in perpetuity along with our software licensing agreements. We have never incurred a liability relating to one of these indemnification provisions in the past and we believe that the likelihood of any future payout relating to these provisions is remote. Therefore, we have not recorded a liability during any period related to these indemnification provisions. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2 of the unaudited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standard.