Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The statements in this discussion regarding our expectations of our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview Commvault Systems, Inc. is a global data protection and information management software company offering customers enterprise level, intelligent data management solutions built from the ground up on a single platform and unified code base. Commvault was incorporated in Delaware in 1996. At Commvault, we believe in solving hard problems for our customers. To do this, we provide capabilities which enable our customers to accelerate their digital transformation in today's ever evolving workforce using tools that are light touch and utilize artificial intelligence and machine learning to drive automation. Our product portfolio empowers our customers to reduce complexity, reign in data fragmentation, and accelerate their cloud journey. All software functionality shares the same back-end technologies to deliver the benefits of a holistic approach to protecting, managing, and accessing data. Our software addresses many aspects of storage and data management in the enterprise, while providing scalability and control of data and information. We believe our technology provides the broadest set of capabilities in the industry, which allows customers to reduce storage costs and administrative overhead. We also provide our customers with a broad range of professional services. Sources of Revenues We derive a significant portion of our total revenues from sales of licenses of our software applications and related appliance products. We do not customize our software or products for a specific end-user customer. We sell our software applications and products to end-user customers both directly through our sales force and indirectly through our global network of value-added reseller partners, systems integrators, corporate resellers and original equipment manufacturers. Our software and products revenue was 44% and 43% of our total revenues for the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our total software and products revenue in any particular period is, to a certain extent, dependent upon our ability to generate revenues from large customer software and products deals. Larger deals (transactions greater than $0.1 million) represented 68% and 69% of our total software and products revenue in the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Software and products revenue generated through indirect distribution channels accounted for approximately 90% of total software and products revenue in both the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020. Software and products revenue generated through direct distribution channels accounted for approximately 10% of total software and products revenue in both the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020. Deals initiated by our direct sales force are sometimes transacted through indirect channels based on end-user customer requirements, which are not always in our control and can cause this overall percentage split to vary from period-to-period. As such, there may be fluctuations in the dollars and percentage of software and products revenue generated through our direct distribution channels from time-to-time. We believe that the growth of our software and products revenue, derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force, are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We plan to continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term. The failure of our indirect distribution channels or our direct sales force to effectively sell our software applications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We have a non-exclusive distribution agreement covering our North American commercial markets and our U.S. Federal Government market with Arrow Enterprise Computing Solutions, Inc. ("Arrow"), a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc. Pursuant to this distribution agreement, Arrow's primary role is to enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our products and services by managing our reseller partners and leveraging their own industry experience. We generated 35% and 36% of our total revenues through Arrow the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. If Arrow were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products, or if 17 our agreement with Arrow were terminated, and if we were unable to take back the management of our reseller channel or find another North American distributor to replace Arrow, then such events would have a material adverse effect on our future business. Our services revenue was 56% of our total revenues for the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 57% of our total revenues for the six months ended September 30, 2020. Our services revenue is made up of fees from the delivery of customer support and other professional services, which are typically sold in connection with the sale of our software applications. Customer support agreements provide technical support and unspecified software updates on a when-and-if-available basis for an annual fee based on licenses purchased and the level of service subscribed. Other professional services include consulting, assessment and design services, implementation and post-deployment services and training, all of which to date have predominantly been sold in connection with the sale of software applications. Our software-as-a-service solution, branded Metallic, is also included in services revenue. Revenue from Metallic is recognized ratably over the contract period. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations Sales outside the United States were 47% of our total revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 45% of our total revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2020. The income statements of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions generally results in increased revenue, operating expenses and income from operations for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, our revenue, operating expenses and net income will generally decrease for our non-U.S. operations if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the three months ended September 30, 2020, our software and products revenue would have been lower by $0.8 million, our services revenue would have been lower by $1.2 million, our cost of sales would have been lower by $0.2 million and our operating expenses would have been lower by $1.2 million from non-U.S. operations for the three months ended September 30, 2021. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the six months ended September 30, 2020, our software and products revenue would have been lower by $3.9 million, our services revenue would have been lower by $5.7 million, our cost of sales would have been lower by $1.2 million and our operating expenses would have been lower by $4.7 million from non-U.S. operations for the six months ended September 30, 2021. In addition, we are exposed to risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from cash balances, accounts receivables and intercompany accounts denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to the resulting transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of General and administrative expenses. We recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of approximately $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the three and six months ended September 30, 2021, respectively. We recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of approximately $1.2 million and $0.4 million for the three and six months ended September 30, 2020, respectively. 18 Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could have reasonably used different accounting estimates, and in other instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period-to-period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application, while in other cases, significant judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting standards that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. We consider these policies requiring significant management judgment to be critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are: Revenue Recognition Accounting for Income Taxes Goodwill There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the six months ended September 30, 2021 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2021. 19 Results of Operations Three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to three months ended September 30, 2020 Revenues (in millions) Total revenues increased $6.7 million, or 4% as a result of the following: Software and products revenue represented 42% of our total revenue for both the three months ended September 30, 2021 and September 30, 2020. Larger deal revenue (deals greater than $0.1 million) represented 67% of our software and products revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2021 and 66% of our software and products revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2020. Software and products revenue increased $3.0 million, or 4%, as a result of the following: An increase of $2.9 million, or 6%, in larger deal revenue. An increase of $0.1 million in transactions less than $0.1 million. An increase of 9% in the volume of larger deal revenue transactions to 163 deals for the three months ended September 30, 2021, up from 150 deals for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The average dollar amount of larger deal revenue transactions was approximately $311 thousand and $319 thousand for the three months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively, representing a 3% decrease. On a year over year basis, pass through hardware sales decreased approximately $3.0 million. Software revenues, excluding hardware, were up 9% year over year. Services revenue represented 58% of our total revenue in both the three months ended September 30, 2021 and September 30, 2020. Services revenue increased $3.7 million primarily due to the following: An increase of $5.7 million of other services revenue, driven primarily by the year over year increase in revenue from Metallic. Partially offset by a decrease of $2.0 million in revenue from customer support agreements. We track software and products revenue on a geographic basis. The geographic regions that are tracked are the Americas (United States, Canada, Latin America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and APJ (Australia, New Zealand, Southeast Asia, China, Japan). Americas, EMEA and APJ represented 59%, 30% and 11% of total software and products revenue, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2021. Software and products revenue increased year over year by 13% in the Americas and 1% in EMEA; whereas APJ declined 20%. The increase in Americas software and products revenue was primarily the result of an 11% increase in larger deal transactions revenue driven by an increase in the volume of larger deal transactions. EMEA software and products revenue increased as a result of an 18% increase in revenue on larger deal transactions partially offset by a decrease on deals under $0.1 million. The decrease in APJ was the result of larger deal transactions decreasing versus the prior year period, partially offset by an increase in deals under $0.1 million. 20 Our software and products revenue in EMEA and APJ is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates as more fully discussed above in the Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations section. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin ($ in millions) Total cost of revenues decreased $0.2 million, and represented 15% of our total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to 16% for the three months ended September 30, 2020. Cost of software and products revenue decreased $5.0 million, and represented 4% of our total software and products revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to 11% for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The decrease is the result of reduced sales of hardware associated with our appliance as well as reduced software royalties associated with sales of HyperScale appliances and software. Beginning with the launch of HyperScale X in the mid fiscal 2021, we began transitioning to a software only model. HyperScale X has also reduced software royalties relative to prior versions of HyperScale. Cost of services revenue increased $4.8 million, representing 23% of our total services revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to 19% for the three months ended September 30, 2020. The increase in cost of services revenue is primarily related to an increase in the cost of infrastructure related to Metallic. 21 Operating Expenses ($ in millions) Sales and marketing expenses increased $3.8 million, or 5%, primarily due to increases in employee compensation and related costs relative to the same time in the prior year due to temporary salary reductions and reduced travel. Research and development expenses increased $6.7 million, or 22%, as a result of an increase in employee compensation and related expenses attributable to the expansion of our engineering group. The increase in employee compensation included an increase in stock-based compensation of $2.8 million compared to prior year. Investing in research and development has been a priority for Commvault, and we anticipate continued spending related to the development of our data and information management software applications. General and administrative expenses increased $0.7 million, or 2%, primarily due to the following: Increase in employee compensation and related costs relative to the same time in the prior year due to temporary salary reductions. General and administrative expenses include a $2.5 million settlement gain net against related legal expenses. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $2.7 million, from $5.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020 to $2.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2021, driven by the elimination of amortization of intangible assets related to Hedvig due to their impairment in the second quarter of fiscal 2021. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $0.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2021 compared to a benefit of $0.5 million in the three months ended September 30, 2020. The income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2021 relates primarily to current foreign taxes. Six months ended September 30, 2021 compared to six months ended September 30, 2020 22 Revenues (in millions) Total revenues increased $17.2 million, or 5%. Software and products revenue represented 44% of our total revenue in the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 43% of our total revenue in the six months ended September 30, 2020. Larger deal revenue (deals greater than $0.1 million) represented 68% of our software and products revenue in the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 69% of our software and products revenue in the six months ended September 30, 2020. Software and products revenue increased $8.6 million, or 6%, as a result of the following: An increase of $4.8 million, or 11%, in transactions less than $0.1 million. An increase of $3.7 million, or 4%, in larger deal revenue. This increase was driven by an increase of 21% in the volume of larger deal revenue transactions which included 348 deals for the six months ended September 30, 2021, up from 288 deals for the six months ended September 30, 2020. The average dollar amount of larger deal revenue transactions was approximately $308 thousand and $359 thousand for the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively, representing a 14% decrease. The prior year first half included a high seven figure transaction that significantly impacted the average dollar amount per transaction. Services revenue represented 56% of our total revenue in the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 57% of our total revenue in the six months ended September 30, 2020. Services revenue increased $8.6 million primarily due to the following: An increase of $10.2 million of other services revenue, driven primarily by the year over year increase in revenue from Metallic. Partially offset by a decrease of $1.7 million in revenue from customer support agreements. We track software and products revenue on a geographic basis. The geographic regions that are tracked are the Americas (United States, Canada, Latin America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and APJ (Australia, New Zealand, Southeast Asia, China, Japan). Americas, EMEA and APJ represented 61%, 28% and 11% of total software and products revenue, respectively, for the six months ended September 30, 2021. Software and products revenue increased year over year by 7% in both the Americas and EMEA and declined 2% in APJ. The increase in Americas software and products revenue was primarily the result of a 29% increase in transactions less than $0.1 million. EMEA software and products revenue increased as a result of a 14% increase in revenue on larger deal transactions. The decrease in APJ was the result of a decrease in larger deal transactions. Our software and products revenue in EMEA and APJ is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates as more fully discussed above in the Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations section. 23 Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin ($ in millions) Total cost of revenues increased $0.4 million, and represented 14% of our total revenues for the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 15% for the six months ended September 30, 2020. Cost of software and products revenue decreased $8.6 million, and represented 3% of our total software and products revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2021 compared to 9% for the six months ended September 30, 2020. The decrease is the result of reduced sales of hardware associated with our appliance as well as reduced software royalties associated with sales of HyperScale appliances and software. Beginning with the launch of HyperScale X in mid fiscal 2021, we began transitioning to a software only model. HyperScale X also has reduced software royalties relative to prior versions of HyperScale. Cost of services revenue increased $9.0 million, representing 23% of our total services revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2021 compared to 19% for the six months ended September 30, 2020. The increase in cost of services revenue is related to an increase in the cost of infrastructure related to Metallic, as well as an increase in employee compensation and related expenses compared to the prior year due to the temporary pay cuts enacted in the first half of 2021. 24 Operating Expenses ($ in millions) Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.5 million, or 1%, primarily due to a decrease in employee compensation and related costs. Research and development expenses increased $11.8 million, or 19%, as a result of an increase in employee compensation and related expenses attributable to the expansion of our engineering group. Increase in employee compensation included an increase in stock-based compensation of $4.1 million compared to prior year. Investing in research and development has been a priority for Commvault, and we anticipate continued spending related to the development of our data and information management software applications. General and administrative expenses increased $5.5 million, or 12%, primarily due to the following: Increase in employee compensation and related expenses compared to the prior year due to the temporary pay cuts enacted in the first half of 2021. General and administrative expenses include a $2.5 million settlement gain net against related legal expenses. Stock-based compensation increased $3.1 million compared to the prior year. Restructuring: Our restructuring plan is intended to increase efficiency in our sales, marketing and distribution functions as well as reduce costs across all functional areas. Restructuring expenses were $2.1 million and $8.1 million in the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. These restructuring charges relate primarily to severance and related costs associated with headcount reductions. These charges include $0.4 million and $0.7 million in the six months ended September 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively, of stock-based compensation related to modifications of existing awards granted to certain employees included in the restructuring. We cannot guarantee the restructuring program will achieve its intended result. Risks associated with this restructuring program also include additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational and growth targets due to the loss of key employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated results of operations or otherwise harm our business. 25 Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $5.5 million, from $10.1 million in the six months ended September 30, 2020 to $4.6 million in the six months ended September 30, 2021, driven by the elimination of amortization of intangible assets related to Hedvig due to their impairment in the second quarter of fiscal 2021. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $2.6 million in the six months ended September 30, 2021 compared to expense of $4.2 million in the six months ended September 30, 2020. The income tax expense for the six months ended September 30, 2021 relates primarily to current foreign taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2021, our cash balance was $295.8 million. In recent fiscal years, our principal source of liquidity has been cash provided by operations. As of September 30, 2021, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States by our foreign legal entities was approximately $172.7 million. These balances are dispersed across many international locations around the world. We believe that such dispersion meets the current and anticipated future liquidity needs of our foreign legal entities. In the event we needed to repatriate funds from outside of the United States, such repatriation would likely be subject to restrictions by local laws and/or tax consequences including foreign withholding taxes. During the six months ended September 30, 2021, we repurchased $180.1 million of our common stock (2,408 shares) under our share repurchase program. Our stock repurchase program has been funded by our existing cash and cash equivalent balances as well as cash flows provided by our operations. Our Board has approved, and we intend to execute, a capital allocation policy that provides for the repurchase of $200 million of our common stock for the period from February 1, 2021 through the end of our 2022 fiscal year, plus the use of approximately 75% of our fiscal 2022 free cash flow for additional repurchases during fiscal year 2022. Since February 1, 2021 through September 30, 2021 we have repurchased $242.2 million of common stock. Our summarized cash flow information is as follows (in thousands): Six Months Ended September 30, 2021 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 63,270 $ 42,242 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (4,699) 29,138 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (156,831) 5,271 Effects of exchange rate-changes in cash (3,170) 10,420 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (101,430) $ 87,071 26 Net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by net income adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges, a decrease in accounts receivable, partially offset by a decrease in accrued liabilities. Net cash used in investing activities was related to $2.7 million in the purchase of investments and $2.0 million of capital expenditures. Net cash used in financing activities was the result of $180.1 million of repurchases of common shares partially offset by $23.3 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Working capital decreased $91.5 million from $234.4 million as of March 31, 2021 to $142.9 million as of September 30, 2021. The net decrease in working capital is primarily the result of cash used for share repurchases during the quarter. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and our cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital, income taxes, capital expenditures and potential stock repurchases for at least the next twelve months. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings or other arrangements during this period. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2021, we did not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Indemnifications Certain of our software licensing agreements contain certain provisions that indemnify our customers from any claim, suit or proceeding arising from alleged or actual intellectual property infringement. These provisions continue in perpetuity along with our software licensing agreements. We have never incurred a liability relating to one of these indemnification provisions in the past and we believe that the likelihood of any future payout relating to these provisions is remote. Therefore, we have not recorded a liability during any period related to these indemnification provisions. 27 Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2 of the unaudited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards.