Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The statements in this discussion regarding our expectations of our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview Commvault is a provider of data and information management software applications and related services. Commvault was incorporated in 1996 as a Delaware corporation. The Commvault software platform is an enterprise level, integrated data and information management solution, built from the ground up on a single platform and unified code base. All software functionality share the same back-end technologies to deliver the benefits of a holistic approach to protecting, managing, and accessing data. The software addresses many aspects of data management in the enterprise, while providing scalability and control of data and information. We also provide our customers with a broad range of professional services that are delivered by our worldwide support and field operations. As of June 30, 2017 , we had licensed our software applications to approximately 25,000 registered customers. Our software licenses typically provide for a perpetual right to use our software and are sold on a per terabyte capacity basis, per-copy, as site licenses or as a solution set. Prior to fiscal 2018, an insignificant amount of our revenue has been sold under subscription, or term based, license arrangements. In these arrangements the customer has the right to use the software over a designated period of time. During fiscal 2018, we expect revenue from subscription arrangements to become a more significant portion of our total revenue compared to historical periods. In recent years, the majority of our software revenue has been sold on a capacity basis and we expect this to remain true in the near future. During the three months ended June 30, 2017 , approximately 66% of software license revenue was sold on a capacity basis. This compares to approximately 69% of software license revenue was sold on a capacity basis during fiscal 2017. Software licenses sold on a capacity basis provide the customer with unlimited licenses of specified software products based on a defined level of terabytes of data under management. As a result, when we sell our platform through a capacity license, certain of the various functionalities discussed below are bundled into one capacity based price. Site licenses give the customer the additional right to deploy the software on a limited basis during a specified term. Our solution sets are generally sold on a per unit basis such as per virtual machine for our virtual machine backup, recovery and cloud management solution set; per mailbox for our email archive solution set, and per user for our endpoint data protection solution set. These solution sets are purpose-built offerings designed to accelerate private, public and hybrid cloud adoption that seamlessly integrate with our single platform software, offering a path towards holistic data management while allowing customers to utilize functionality that addresses the point solution requirements their business dictates. We primarily sell solution sets for virtual machine backup, recovery and cloud management; endpoint data protection; and email archive. The industry in which we currently operate continues to go through accelerating changes as the result of compounding data growth and the introduction of new technologies. We remain focused on both the data and information management trends in the marketplace and, in fact, a material portion of our existing research and development expenses are utilized toward the development of such new technologies. While we are confident in our ability to meet these changing industry demands with our Commvault suite and potential future releases, the development, release and timing of any features or functionality remain at our sole discretion and our solutions or other technologies may not be widely adopted. Given the nature of the industry in which we operate, our software applications are subject to obsolescence. We continually develop and introduce updates to our existing software applications in order to keep pace with evolving industry technologies. In addition, we must address evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and competitive software applications that may render our existing software applications obsolete. For each of our software applications, we provide full support for the current generally available release and one prior release. When we declare a product release obsolete, a customer notice is delivered twelve months prior to the effective date of obsolescence announcing continuation of full product support for the first six months. We provide an additional six months of extended assistance support in which we only provide existing workarounds or fixes that do not require additional development activity. We do not have existing plans to make any of our software products permanently obsolete. 18 Table of Contents Sources of Revenues We derive a significant portion of our total revenues from sales of licenses of our software applications. We do not customize our software for a specific end-user customer. We sell our software applications to end-user customers both directly through our sales force and indirectly through our global network of value-added reseller partners, systems integrators, corporate resellers and original equipment manufacturers. Our software revenue was 45% and 42% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. In recent fiscal periods, we have generated approximately three-quarters of our software revenue from our existing customer base and approximately one-quarter of our software revenue from new customers. In addition, our total software revenue in any particular period is, to a certain extent, dependent upon our ability to generate revenues from large customer software deals, which we refer to as enterprise software transactions. Enterprise software transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) represented approximately 63% and 49% of our total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Software revenue generated through indirect distribution channels was 81% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and was approximately 83% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Software revenue generated through direct distribution channels was approximately 19% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and was approximately 17% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The dollar value of software revenue generated through indirect distribution channels increased approximately $7.9 million , or 15% , in the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The dollar value of software revenue generated through direct distribution channels increased approximately $3.5 million , or 33% , in the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Deals initiated by our direct sales force are sometimes transacted through indirect channels based on end-user customer requirements, which are not always in our control and can cause this overall percentage split to vary from period-to-period. As such, there may be fluctuations in the dollars and percentage of software revenue generated through our direct distribution channels from time-to-time. We believe that the growth of our software revenue, derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force, are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We will continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term. The failure of our indirect distribution channels or our direct sales force to effectively sell our software applications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our primary original equipment manufacturer agreement is with Hitachi Data Systems ("HDS") and allows them to market, sell and support our software applications and services on a stand-alone basis and/or incorporate our software applications into their own hardware products. Our original equipment manufacturer partners, including HDS, have no obligation to recommend or offer our software applications exclusively or at all, and they have no minimum sales requirements and can terminate our relationship at any time. Sales through our original equipment manufacturer agreements, accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 15% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2016 . We also have non-exclusive distribution agreements covering our North American commercial markets and our U.S. Federal Government market with Arrow Enterprise Computing Solutions, Inc. ("Arrow"), a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc., and Avnet Technology Solutions ("Avnet"), a subsidiary of Avnet, Inc. Pursuant to these distribution agreements, these distributors primary role is to enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our products and services by managing our reseller partners and leveraging their own industry experience. We generated approximately 36% of our total revenues through Arrow in the three months ended June 30, 2017 , and approximately 34% in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . We generated approximately 12% of our total revenues through Avnet in the three months ended June 30, 2017 . If Arrow or Avnet were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products or if our agreement with Arrow or Avnet was terminated, and if we were unable to take back the management of our reseller channel or find another North American distributor to replace Arrow or Avnet, then it could have a material adverse effect on our future business. Our services revenue was 55% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 58% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Our services revenue is made up of fees from the delivery of customer support and other professional services, which are typically sold in connection with the sale of our software applications. Customer support agreements provide technical support and unspecified software updates on a when-and-if-available basis for an annual fee based on licenses purchased and the level of service subscribed. Other professional services include consulting, assessment and design services, installation services and customer education. 19 Table of Contents Most of our customer support agreements are priced as a percentage of the related net software purchased and are for a one year term. As the end of the annual period approaches, we pursue the renewal of the agreement with the customer. Historically, customer support renewals have represented a significant portion of our total revenue. Because of this characteristic of our business, if our customers choose not to renew their support agreements with us on beneficial terms, or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations Sales outside the United States were approximately 45% of our total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 43% of our total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The results of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions generally results in increased revenue, operating expenses and income from operations for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, our revenue, operating expenses and net income will generally decrease for our non-U.S. operations if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the three months ended June 30, 2016 our software revenue would have been higher by $0.9 million, our services revenue would have been higher by $1.3 million, our cost of sales would have been higher by $0.1 million and our operating expenses would have been higher by $2.4 million from non-U.S. operations for the three months ended June 30, 2017 . In addition, we are exposed to risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from cash balances, accounts receivables and intercompany accounts denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to the resulting transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of general and administrative expenses. We recognized a net foreign currency transaction gains of $0.1 million and $0.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could have reasonably used different accounting estimates, and in other instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period-to-period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application, while in other cases, significant judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting standards that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. We consider these policies requiring significant management judgment to be critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are: Revenue Recognition; Stock-Based Compensation; Accounting for Income Taxes Software Development Costs Deferred Commissions Costs The discussion below includes changes to our critical accounting policies that have occurred in fiscal 2018. Revenue Recognition We account for revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Our revenue recognition policies require us to make significant judgments and estimates. In applying our revenue recognition policy, we must determine which portions of our revenue are recognized currently (generally software revenue) and which portions must be deferred and recognized in future periods (generally services revenue). We analyze various factors including, but not limited to, the selling price of undelivered services when sold on a stand-alone basis, our pricing policies, the credit-worthiness of our customers, and contractual terms and conditions in helping us to make such judgments about revenue recognition. Changes in judgment on any of these factors could materially impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized in a given period. 20 Table of Contents We derive revenue from two primary sources: software licenses and services. Services include customer support (software updates and technical support), consulting, assessment and design services, installation services and customer education. A typical contract includes both licenses and services. Our software licenses typically provide for a perpetual right to use the Companys software. We also sell term-based software licenses that expire, which we refer to as subscription arrangements. We do not customize its software for customers and installation services are not required. Our software is delivered before related services are provided and is functional without professional services, updates and technical support. We have concluded that our software license is distinct as the customer can benefit from the software on its own. Software revenue is typically recognized when the software is delivered or made available for download to our customer. We also have licensing arrangements with customers that are accounted for as usage-based royalties. Revenue from these arrangements is recognized as the usage occurs. Services revenue includes revenue from customer support and other professional services. Customer support includes software updates on a when-and-if-available basis, telephone support, integrated web-based support and bug fixes or patches. The Company sells its customer support contracts as a percentage of net software purchases the support is related to. Customer support revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the customer support agreement, which is typically one year. Other professional services include consulting, assessment and design services, installation services and customer education. Customer education services include courses taught by our instructors or third-party contractors. Revenue related to other professional services and customer education services is typically recognized as the services are performed. Most of our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations. For these contracts, we account for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices of software are typically estimated using the residual approach. Standalone selling prices of services are typically estimated based on observable transactions when these services are sold on a standalone basis. Our typical performance obligations include the following: Performance Obligation When Performance Obligation is Typically Satisfied When Payment is Typically Due How Standalone Selling Price is Typically Estimated Software Revenue Software Licenses Upon shipment or made available for download (point in time) Within 90 days of shipment except for certain subscription licenses which are paid for over time Residual approach Customer Support Revenue Software Updates Ratably over the course of the support contract (over time) At the beginning of the contract period Observable in renewal transactions Customer Support Ratably over the course of the support contract (over time) At the beginning of the contract period Observable in renewal transactions Professional Services Other Professional Services (except for education services) As work is performed (over time) Within 90 days of services being performed Observable in transactions without multiple performance obligations Education Services When the class is taught (point in time) Within 90 days of services being performed Observable in transactions without multiple performance obligations 21 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation and Accounting for Income Taxes In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (Topic 718), which simplifies the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including related accounting for income taxes, forfeitures, and classification in the statement of cash flows. In connection with the adoption of this guidance we elected an accounting policy to account for forfeitures as they occur. The guidance also requires excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recorded as income tax benefit or expense in the statement of income when the awards vest or are settled, and eliminates the requirement to reclassify cash flows related to excess tax benefits from operating activities to financing activities on the statement of cash flows. Deferred Commissions Cost Sales commissions and related payroll taxes earned by our employees are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. The costs related to revenue that will be recognized in future periods is deferred and then amortized over a period of benefit that we have determined to be five years. The period of benefit was determined by taking into consideration customer contracts, technology and other factors. Amortization expense related to these costs is included in Sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of income. If we were to change our estimate of the period of benefit of these deferred costs it would impact our results of operations. There have been no other significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2017 . In addition, please see Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our fiscal 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for a description of our accounting policies. Results of Operations Three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to three months ended June 30, 2016 Revenues Total revenues increased $14.2 million , or 9% , from $151.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 to $166.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 . Software Revenue. Software revenue increased $11.3 million , or 18% , from $63.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 to $74.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 . Software revenue represented 45% of our total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to 42% of total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . We track software revenue on a geographic basis. The geographic regions that are tracked are the Americas (United States, Canada, Latin America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and APAC (Australia, New Zealand, Southeast Asia, China). Americas, EMEA and APAC represented 53%, 32% and 15% of total software revenue, respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2017 . The year-over-year increase of software revenue in the Americas, EMEA and APAC was 12%, 35% and 10% , respectively. The increase in Americas software revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2017 was the result of an increase in enterprise transaction revenue driven by a higher average dollar value of enterprise revenue transactions. EMEA software revenue increased as a result of a significant increase in enterprise transaction revenue. The significant increase in enterprise transaction revenue was driven by an increase in the average dollar value of such transactions. Year over year software revenue growth in EMEA was adversely impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. dollar strengthened against the Euro and British pound sterling. Using average foreign exchange rates from the first three months of fiscal 2017 , fiscal 2018 EMEA software revenue would have increased 39% compared to an actual increase of 35% . The increase in APAC software revenue was the result of an increase in enterprise transaction revenue driven by a higher average dollar value of enterprise revenue transactions. Our software revenue in EMEA and APAC is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates as more fully discussed above in the Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations section. 22 Table of Contents Software revenue derived from enterprise software transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) represented approximately 63% of our software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and approximately 49% of our software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Enterprise software transaction revenue increased by $15.6 million , or 50% , in the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 . This increase was driven by a 59% increase in the average dollar amount of such transactions partially offset by a 6% decline in the number of transactions. The average sales price was approximately $375,000 in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and approximately $236,000 in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Software revenue derived from transactions less than $0.1 million decreased $4.2 million , or 13% , in the three months ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Services Revenue. Services revenue increased $2.9 million , or 3% , from $88.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 to $91.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 . Services revenue represented 55% of our total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 58% in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The increase in services revenue is due to a $3.6 million increase in revenue from customer support agreements as a result of software sales to new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base. The increase in customer support revenue was partially offset by a decline in other professional services revenue. Cost of Revenues . Total cost of revenues increased $0.7 million , or 3% , from $21.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 to $21.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 . The gross margin of our services revenue was 77% for both the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016. Overall, our services revenue has lower gross margins than our software revenue. The gross margin of our software revenue was approximately 99% for both the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 . An increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by services revenue may adversely affect our overall gross margins. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased $7.2 million , or 8% , from $92.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 to $99.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 . The increase is primarily due to a $4.8 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses mainly attributable to the expansion of our sales force from the prior year and a $1.8 million increase in stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 60% in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 61% in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased $3.3 million , or 17% , from $19.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 to $22.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 . The increase is due to salary and related expenses resulting from the expansion of our engineering group. Research and development expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 14% in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and 13% in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Investing in research and development has been a priority for Commvault, and we anticipate continued spending related to the development of our data and information management software applications. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $3.9 million , or 20% , from $19.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 to $23.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 . The increase is primarily the result of a $4.3 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses. Expenses in the three months ended June 30, 2017 includes approximately $0.1 million of net foreign currency transaction gains compared to $0.3 million of net foreign currency transaction gains in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues increased to 14% in the three months ended June 30, 2017 from 13% in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense increased by $0.3 million from $2.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 to $2.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 . Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Income tax benefit was $3.8 in the three months ended June 30, 2017 . The income tax benefit in the three month period ended June 30, 2017 is primarily related to the $2.4 impact of excess tax benefits for exercised stock options and vested restricted stock units. The inclusion of excess tax benefits in the income tax benefit is the result of changes in accounting guidance effective April 1, 2017. In prior periods excess tax benefits were recorded as an adjustment to equity. The income tax benefit also includes the favorable impact of research tax credits and was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of permanent book to tax differences. Income tax benefit was $0.7 in the three months ended June 30, 2016 The effective rate of the income tax benefit in the three month period is lower than the federal statutory rate due to the impact of unfavorable permanent differences, partially offset by the impact of research tax credits. 23 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2017 , our cash and cash equivalents balance of $349.5 million primarily consisted of cash and money market funds. In addition, as of June 30, 2017 we have short-term investments invested in U.S. Treasury Bills totaling $131.5 million . In recent fiscal years, our principal source of liquidity has been cash provided by operations. As of June 30, 2017 , the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States by our foreign legal entities was approximately $169 million . These balances are dispersed across many international locations around the world. We believe that such dispersion meets the current and anticipated future liquidity needs of our foreign legal entities. In addition, it is our intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of our foreign legal entities. In the event we needed to repatriate funds from outside of the United States, such repatriation would likely be subject to restrictions by local laws and/or tax consequences including foreign withholding taxes or U.S. income taxes. It is not currently practical to estimate the legal restrictions or tax liability that would arise from such repatriations. We have a five-year $250 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) that expires in June 2019. The Credit Facility is available for share repurchases, general corporate purposes, and letters of credit. The Credit Facility contains financial maintenance covenants including a leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio. The Credit Facility also contains certain customary events of default which would permit the lenders to, among other things, declare all loans then outstanding to be immediately due and payable if such default is not cured within applicable grace periods. The Credit Facility also limits our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness, create or permit liens on assets, make acquisitions, make investments, loans or advances, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends or distributions, and engage in certain transactions with foreign affiliates. Outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility accrue interest at an annual rate equal to London Interbank Offered Rate plus 1.50% subject to increases based on actual leverage. The unused balance on the Credit Facility is also subject to a 0.25% annual interest charge subject to increases based on our actual leverage. As of June 30, 2017 , there were no borrowings under the Credit Facility and we believe we are in compliance with all covenants. During the three months ended June 30, 2017 , we did not repurchase any of common stock shares under our share repurchase program. As of June 30, 2017 there was $125.0 million remaining in the share repurchase program which expires March 31, 2018. Under our stock repurchase program, repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to unissued status. Our stock repurchase program has been funded by our existing cash and cash equivalent balances as well as cash flows provided by our operations. Our future stock repurchase activity is subject to the business judgment of our management and Board of Directors, taking into consideration our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and other anticipated capital requirements or investment alternatives. Our stock repurchase program reduces the dilutive impact on our common shares outstanding associated with stock option exercises and our previous public and private stock offerings through the repurchase of common stock we believe is undervalued. Our summarized cash flow information is as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 19,933 $ 24,047 Net cash used in investing activities (12,247 ) (9,894 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 5,570 1,842 Effects of exchange rate-changes in cash 6,775 (1,855 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 20,031 $ 14,140 Net cash provided by operating activities was $19.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and $24.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . In the three months ended June 30, 2017 , cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to net loss adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges, collection of accounts receivable and an increase in deferred revenue. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease in Accrued liabilities and an increase in Other current assets. During the quarter we made a $3.0 million payment for software royalties related to our hyper-converged products and appliance strategy. We expect to utilize these prepaid royalties over the next year. Cash flow from operations in the three month period ended June 30, 2017 also includes $2.4 of excess tax benefits for exercised stock options and vested restricted stock units. In prior periods excess tax benefits were classified as financing activities. In the three months ended June 30, 2016 , cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to net loss adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges and the collection of accounts receivable. 24 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities was $12.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2017 and $9.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . In the three months ended June 30, 2017 , cash used in investing activities was related to $10.8 million in net purchases of U.S. Treasury Bills and $1.5 million of capital expenditures. In the three months ended June 30, 2016 , cash used in investing activities was related to $8.9 million in net purchases of U.S. Treasury Bills and $1.0 million of capital expenditures. Net cash provided by financing activities was $5.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2017 and $1.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The cash provided by financing activities in the three months ended June 30, 2017 was due to $5.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. The cash used in financing activities in the three months ended June 30, 2016 was due to $1.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $0.3 million of excess tax benefits recognized as a result of the stock option exercises and restricted stock vesting. As a the result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, excess tax benefits are now included in cash from operating activities. Working capital increased $31.5 million from $318.1 million as of March 31, 2017 to $349.6 million as of June 30, 2017 . The net increase in working capital is due primarily to a net increase in cash and short-term investments that was a result of the cash flows generated from operations. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and our cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital, income taxes, capital expenditures and potential stock repurchases for at least the next twelve months. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings or other arrangements during this period. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2017 , other than our operating leases, we do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Indemnifications Certain of our software licensing agreements contain certain provisions that indemnify our customers from any claim, suit or proceeding arising from alleged or actual intellectual property infringement. These provisions continue in perpetuity along with our software licensing agreements. We have never incurred a liability relating to one of these indemnification provisions in the past and we believe that the likelihood of any future payout relating to these provisions is remote. Therefore, we have not recorded a liability during any period related to these indemnification provisions. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2 of the unaudited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standard.