Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The statements in this discussion regarding our expectations of our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview We are a leading provider of data and information management software applications and related services. Our software platform is an enterprise level, integrated data and information management solution, built from the ground up on a single platform and unified code base. Our platform contains software functionality that works together seamlessly, sharing a single code and common function set to deliver Data Protection - Backup & Recovery; Cloud and Infrastructure Management; and Retention and Compliance across physical, virtual and cloud environments. All software functionality share the same back-end technologies to deliver the benefits of a holistic approach to protecting, managing, and accessing data. Our software addresses many aspects of data management in the enterprise, while providing scalability and control of data and information. Our software enables our customers to simply and cost-effectively protect and manage their enterprise data throughout its lifecycle, from the mobile worker to the remote office, to the data center, covering the leading operating systems, relational databases, virtualized environments and applications. We also provide our customers with a broad range of professional services that are delivered by our worldwide support and field operations. As of June 30, 2016 , we had licensed our software applications to approximately 23,000 registered customers. Our software licenses typically provide for a perpetual right to use our software and are sold on a per-terabyte capacity basis, on a per-copy basis, as site licenses or as a solution set. During the three months ended June 30, 2016, approximately 68% of software license revenue was sold on a capacity basis. This compares to approximately 73% of software license revenue was sold on a capacity basis during fiscal 2016. Capacity-based software licenses provide our customers with unlimited licenses of specified software products based on a defined level of terabytes of data under management. As a result, when we sell our platform through a capacity license, certain of the various Commvault functionalities are bundled into one capacity-based price. We anticipate that capacity-based licenses will continue to account for the majority of our software license revenue for fiscal 2017. Site licenses give the customer the additional right to deploy the software on a limited basis during a specified term. Our primary solution sets in our software suite include virtual machine backup, recovery and cloud management; endpoint data protection; and email archive. These solution sets can be individually deployed or combined as part of a comprehensive data protection and information management solution. Our solution sets are generally sold on a per-unit basis such as per virtual machine for our virtual machine backup, recovery and cloud management solution set; per mailbox for our email archive solution set and per user for our endpoint data protection solution set. Historically, an insignificant amount of our revenue has been sold under subscription, or term-based, license arrangements. In these arrangements, the customer has the right to use the software on either a capacity basis or per-copy or per-unit basis over a designated period of time. Revenue in these arrangements is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. Over the next several years, we expect revenue from these types of arrangements to become a more significant portion of our total revenue. The industry in which we currently operate continues to go through accelerating changes as the result of compounding data growth and the introduction of new technologies. We remain focused on both the data and information management trends in the marketplace and, in fact, a material portion of our existing research and development expenses are utilized toward the development of such new technologies. While we are confident in our ability to meet these changing industry demands with our Commvault suite and potential future releases, the development, release and timing of any features or functionality remain at our sole discretion and our solutions or other technologies may not be widely adopted. Given the nature of the industry in which we operate, our software applications are subject to obsolescence. We continually develop and introduce updates to our existing software applications in order to keep pace with evolving industry technologies. In addition, we must address evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and competitive software applications that may render our existing software applications obsolete. For each of our software applications, we provide full support for the current generally available release and one prior release. When we declare a product release obsolete, a customer notice is delivered twelve months prior to the effective date of obsolescence announcing continuation of full product support for the first six months. We provide an additional six months of extended assistance support in which we only provide existing workarounds or fixes that do not require additional development activity. We do not have existing plans to make any of our software products permanently obsolete. 16 Table of Contents Sources of Revenues We derive a significant portion of our total revenues from sales of licenses of our software applications. We do not customize our software for a specific end-user customer. We sell our software applications to end-user customers both directly through our sales force and indirectly through our global network of value-added reseller partners, systems integrators, corporate resellers and original equipment manufacturers. Our software revenue was 42% and 41% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. In recent fiscal periods, we have generated approximately three-quarters of our software revenue from our existing customer base and approximately one-quarter of our software revenue from new customers. In addition, our total software revenue in any particular period is, to a certain extent, dependent upon our ability to generate revenues from large customer software deals, which we refer to as enterprise software transactions. Enterprise software transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) represented approximately 52% and 49% of our total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Software revenue generated through indirect distribution channels was 83% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and was approximately 89% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Software revenue generated through direct distribution channels was approximately 17% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and was approximately 11% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The dollar value of software revenue generated through indirect distribution channels increased approximately $3.1 million , or 6% , in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The dollar value of software revenue generated through direct distribution channels increased approximately $4.4 million , or 70% , in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in the dollar value of software revenue generated through our direct sales force is primarily the result of several large enterprise transactions. Deals initiated by our direct sales force are sometimes transacted through indirect channels based on end-user customer requirements, which are not always in our control and can cause this overall percentage split to vary from period-to-period. As such, there may be fluctuations in the dollars and percentage of software revenue generated through our direct distribution channels from time-to-time. We believe that the growth of our software revenue, derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force, are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We will continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term. The failure of our indirect distribution channels or our direct sales force to effectively sell our software applications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our primary original equipment manufacturer agreement is with Hitachi Data Systems ("HDS") and allows them to market, sell and support our software applications and services on a stand-alone basis and/or incorporate our software applications into their own hardware products. Our original equipment manufacturer partners, including HDS, have no obligation to recommend or offer our software applications exclusively or at all, and they have no minimum sales requirements and can terminate our relationship at any time. Sales through our original equipment manufacturer agreements, accounted for 15% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 18% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . We also have non-exclusive distribution agreements covering our North American commercial markets and our U.S. Federal Government market with Arrow Enterprise Computing Solutions, Inc. ("Arrow"), a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc., and Avnet Technology Solutions ("Avnet"), a subsidiary of Avnet, Inc. Pursuant to these distribution agreements, these distributors primary role is to enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our products and services by managing our reseller partners and leveraging their own industry experience. We generated approximately 34% of our total revenues through Arrow in the three months ended June 30, 2016 , and approximately 35% in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . If Arrow or Avnet were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products or if our agreement with Arrow or Avnet was terminated, and if we were unable to take back the management of our reseller channel or find another North American distributor to replace Arrow or Avnet, then it could have a material adverse effect on our future business. Our services revenue was 58% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 59% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Our services revenue is made up of fees from the delivery of customer support and other professional services, which are typically sold in connection with the sale of our software applications. Customer support agreements provide technical support and unspecified software updates on a when-and-if-available basis for an annual fee based on licenses purchased and the level of service subscribed. Other professional services include consulting, assessment and design services, implementation and post-deployment services and training, all of which to date have predominantly been sold in connection with the sale of software applications. 17 Table of Contents Most of our customer support agreements are for a one year term. As the end of the annual period approaches, we pursue the renewal of the agreement with the customer. Historically, maintenance renewals have represented a significant portion of our total revenue. Because of this characteristic of our business, if our customers choose not to renew their maintenance and support agreements with us on beneficial terms, or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, we are currently going through a re-alignment of our maintenance pricing to be more competitive in the market and make it easier for our customers to do business with Commvault. This maintenance pricing re-alignment will phase in over the current fiscal year and is primarily focused on the mid- to lower-end of the market (non-enterprise customers) which impacts approximately a quarter of our existing maintenance revenue dollar base. If we are not successful with our maintenance pricing re-alignment strategy, our business and financial performance might also be adversely impacted. The gross margin of our services revenue was 77% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 76% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Overall, our services revenue has lower gross margins than our software revenue. The gross margin of our software revenue was approximately 99% for both the three months ended June 30, 2016 and for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . An increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by services revenue may adversely affect our overall gross margins. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations Sales outside the United States were approximately 44% of our total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 45% of our total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The income statements of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions generally results in increased revenue, operating expenses and income from operations for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, our revenue, operating expenses and net income will generally decrease for our non-U.S. operations if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the three months ended June 30, 2015 our software revenue would have been higher by $0.9 million, our services revenue would have been higher by $0.9 million, our cost of sales would have been higher by approximately $0.1 million and our operating expenses would have been higher by $1.7 million from non-U.S. operations for the three months ended June 30, 2016 . In addition, we are exposed to risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from cash balances, accounts receivables and intercompany accounts denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to the resulting transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of general and administrative expenses. We recognized a net foreign currency transaction gain of $0.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . We recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of approximately $0.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could have reasonably used different accounting estimates, and in other instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period-to-period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application, while in other cases, significant judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting standards that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. We consider these policies requiring significant management judgment to be critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are: Revenue Recognition; Stock-Based Compensation; Accounting for Income Taxes; and Software Development Costs 18 Table of Contents There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2016 . In addition, please see Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our fiscal 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for a description of our accounting policies. Results of Operations The following table sets forth each of our sources of revenues and costs of revenues for the specified periods as a percentage of our total revenues for those periods (due to rounding, numbers in column may not sum to totals): Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 2015 Revenues: Software 42 % 41 % Services 58 % 59 % Total revenues 100 % 100 % Cost of revenues: Software % % Services 13 % 14 % Total cost of revenues 14 % 15 % Gross margin 86 % 85 % Three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to three months ended June 30, 2015 Revenues Total revenues increased $13.3 million , or 10% , from $139.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 to $152.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Software Revenue. Software revenue increased $7.4 million , or 13% , from $56.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 to $63.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Software revenue represented 42% of our total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and compared to 41% of total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . We track software revenue on a geographic basis. The geographic regions that are tracked are the Americas (United States, Canada, Latin America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and APAC (Australia, New Zealand, Southeast Asia, China). Americas, EMEA and APAC represented 55%, 30% and 15% of total software revenue, respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The year-over-year increase of Software Revenue in the Americas, EMEA and APAC was 12%, 11% and 22% , respectively. The increase in Americas software revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was the result of an increase in the number of enterprise revenue transactions. EMEA software revenue increased primarily as a result of an increase in non-enterprise transaction revenue. The increase in APAC software revenue was primarily the result of an increase in the average dollar amount of enterprise transactions. This increase was partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to APAC currencies. Using exchange rates from the first three months of fiscal 2016 , the increase in year-over-year software revenue would have been 28% compared to the actual increase of 22% . Our software revenue in EMEA and APAC is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates as more fully discussed above in the Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations section. 19 Table of Contents Software revenue derived from enterprise software transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) represented approximately 52% of our software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and approximately 49% of our software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Enterprise software transaction revenue increased by $5.3 million , or 19% , in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . This increase was driven by a 23% increase in the number of transactions partially offset by a 4% decline in the average dollar amount of such transactions. The average sales price was approximately $242,000 in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and approximately $251,000 in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Software revenue derived from transactions less than $0.1 million increased $2.2 million , or 8% , in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Services Revenue. Services revenue increased $5.8 million , or 7% , from $82.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 to $88.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Services revenue represented 58% of our total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 59% in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in services revenue is due to a $6.6 million increase in revenue from customer support agreements as a result of software sales to new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base. The increase in customer support revenue was partially offset by a decline in professional services revenue. Cost of Revenues . Total cost of revenues increased $0.4 million , or 2% , from $20.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 to $21.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Total cost of revenues represented 14% of our total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 15% in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased $6.9 million , or 8% , from $85.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 to $92.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The increase is primarily due to a $4.2 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses, including $1.1 million in stock-based compensation, mainly attributable to the expansion of our sales force from the prior year. In addition, during the first quarter the Company held its first worldwide sales meeting in several years which also contributed to the year over year increase in sales and marketing expense. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues decreased to 61% in the three months ended June 30, 2016 from 62% in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased $2.5 million , or 15% , from $16.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 to $19.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . The increase is due to a $1.9 million increase in salary and related expenses resulting from the expansion of our engineering group. Research and development expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 13% in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 12% in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Investing in research and development has been a priority for Commvault, and we anticipate continued spending related to the development of our data and information management software applications. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $0.1 million , or 1% , from $19.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 to $19.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . General and administrative expenses in the three months ended June 30, 2016 includes approximately $0.3 million of net foreign currency transaction gains compared to approximately $0.2 million of net foreign currency transaction loss in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 13% in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 14% in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense decreased by $0.4 million from $2.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 to $2.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 . Income Tax Benefit Income tax benefit was $0.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to a benefit of $5.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015. The effective tax rate in the three months ended June 30, 2016 was 22% as compared to 79% in the three months ended June 30, 2015. The effective rate in the three months ended June 30, 2016 is lower than the statutory rate primarily because of $0.6 million of income tax expense related to a change in the estimated state tax rate applied to the state deferred tax assets and the state income tax payable. The effective rate in the three months ended June 30, 2015 is higher than the statuary rate because projected unfavorable permanent differences represented a greater percentage of projected loss before taxes. We estimate that cash expenditures for income taxes in fiscal 2017 will be less than $5 million. 20 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2016 , our cash and cash equivalents balance of $302.2 million primarily consisted of cash and money market funds. In addition, as of June 30, 2016 we have short-term investments invested in U.S. Treasury Bills totaling $107.9 million . In recent fiscal years, our principal source of liquidity has been cash provided by operations. As of June 30, 2016 , the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States by our foreign legal entities was approximately $147 million . These balances are dispersed across many international locations around the world. We believe that such dispersion meets the current and anticipated future liquidity needs of our foreign legal entities. In addition, it is our intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of our foreign legal entities. In the event we needed to repatriate funds from outside of the United States, such repatriation would likely be subject to restrictions by local laws and/or tax consequences including foreign withholding taxes or U.S. income taxes. It is not currently practical to estimate the legal restrictions or tax liability that would arise from such repatriations. We have a five-year $250 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) that expires in 2019. The Credit Facility is available for share repurchases, general corporate purposes, and letters of credit. The Credit Facility contains financial maintenance covenants including a leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio. The Credit Facility also contains certain customary events of default which would permit the lenders to, among other things, declare all loans then outstanding to be immediately due and payable if such default is not cured within applicable grace periods. The Credit Facility also limits our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness, create or permit liens on assets, make acquisitions, make investments, loans or advances, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends or distributions, and engage in certain transactions with foreign affiliates. Outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility accrue interest at an annual rate equal to London Interbank Offered Rate plus 1.50% subject to increases based on the Company's actual leverage. The unused balance on the Credit Facility is also subject to a 0.25% annual interest charge subject to increases based on the Company's actual leverage. As of June 30, 2016 , there were no borrowings under the Credit Facility and we believe we are in compliance with all covenants. During the three months ended June 30, 2016 , we did not repurchase any of common stock shares under our share repurchase program. As of June 30, 2016 , there was $93 million remaining in the share repurchase program which expires on March 31, 2017. Under our stock repurchase program, repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to unissued status. Our stock repurchase program has been funded by our existing cash and cash equivalent balances as well as cash flows provided by our operations. Our future stock repurchase activity is subject to the business judgment of our management and Board of Directors, taking into consideration our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and other anticipated capital requirements or investment alternatives. Our stock repurchase program reduces the dilutive impact on our common shares outstanding associated with stock option exercises and our previous public and private stock offerings through the repurchase of common stock we believe is undervalued. Our summarized cash flow information is as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 2015 Cash provided by operating activities $ 24,047 $ 21,897 Net cash used in investing activities (9,894 ) (14,737 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 1,842 3,499 Effects of exchange rate-changes in cash (1,855 ) 2,137 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 14,140 $ 12,796 Net cash provided by operating activities was $24.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and $21.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . In the three months ended June 30, 2016 , cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to net loss adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges, a decrease in accounts receivable due to timing of cash receipts and an increase in deferred revenue. These cash increases were partially offset by a decrease in accrued liabilities. In the three months ended June 30, 2015 , cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to net loss adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges, and decreases in accounts receivable due to timing of cash receipts, partially offset by a reduction of accrued expenses. 21 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities was $9.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and $14.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . In the three months ended June 30, 2016 , cash used in investing activities was related to $8.9 million in net purchases of U.S. Treasury Bills and $1.0 million of capital expenditures. In the three months ended June 30, 2015 , cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $10.9 million in net purchases of U.S. Treasury Bills, $2.1 million of incremental spending on the Companys planned corporate campus headquarters, and $1.7 million of capital expenditures. Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and $3.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The cash provided by financing activities in the three months ended June 30, 2016 was due to $1.6 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $0.3 million of excess tax benefits recognized as a result of the stock option exercises and restricted stock vesting. The net cash provided by financing activities in the three months ended June 30, 2015 was primarily due to $1.8 million of excess tax benefits recognized as a result of the stock option exercises and $1.7 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Working capital increased $17.7 million from $252.4 million as of March 31, 2016 to $270.1 million as of June 30, 2016 . The net increase in working capital is due primarily to a net increase in cash and short-term investments as a result of cash flow generated from operations. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and our cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures and potential stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings or other arrangements during this period. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2016 , other than our operating leases, we do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Indemnifications Certain of our software licensing agreements contain certain provisions that indemnify our customers from any claim, suit or proceeding arising from alleged or actual intellectual property infringement. These provisions continue in perpetuity along with our software licensing agreements. We have never incurred a liability relating to one of these indemnification provisions in the past and we believe that the likelihood of any future payout relating to these provisions is remote. Therefore, we have not recorded a liability during any period related to these indemnification provisions. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)" (ASU 2014-09) and has since modified the standard with ASU 2015-14, "Deferral of the Effective Date." These standards replace existing revenue recognition rules with a comprehensive revenue measurement and recognition standard and expanded disclosure requirements. The new standard becomes effective for our fiscal 2019 with early adoption permitted in fiscal 2018. We are still in the process of determining the impact of the standard on our financial statements and the timing of our adoption. The FASB allows two adoption methods under the new standard. Under one method, a company will apply the rules to contracts in all reporting periods presented. We currently believe we will apply this method of adoption. While we continue to evaluate the impact of the new standard, we believe the standard may require us to implement new revenue recognition processes, which will change our internal controls over revenue recognition. Leases In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02). Under ASU 2016-02, a lessee will recognize in the balance sheet a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-to-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. The amendments of this ASU are effective for our fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted. An entity will be required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on our financial statements. 22 Table of Contents Stock-based Compensation In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, "Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting," which simplifies several aspects of the accounting for employee share-based payment transactions, including the accounting for income taxes, forfeitures, and statutory tax withholding requirements, as well as classification in the statement of cash flows. The Company is required to adopt the new guidance in fiscal 2018 with early adoption permitted. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of ASU 2016-09 will have on the financial statements.