Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The statements in this discussion regarding our expectations of our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview We are a leading provider of data and information management software applications and related services in terms of product breadth and functionality and market penetration. We develop, market and sell a unified suite of data and information management software applications under the Simpana brand. Simpana software is built from the ground up on a single platform and unified code base for integrated data and information management. The Simpana platform contains licensable modules that work together seamlessly, sharing a single code and common function set to deliver Backup and Recovery, Archive, Replication, eDiscovery and Analytic capabilities across physical, virtual and cloud environments. With a single platform approach, Simpana software is specifically designed to protect, manage and access data throughout its lifecycle in less time, at lower cost and with fewer resources than alternative solutions. Our product features and capabilities enable our customers to deploy solutions for data protection, business continuance, corporate compliance and centralized management and reporting. We also provide our customers with a broad range of professional services that are delivered by our worldwide support and field operations. As of June 30, 2015 , we had licensed our software applications to over 21,000 registered customers. Our software licenses typically provide for a perpetual right to use our software and are sold on a per-terabyte capacity basis, on a per-copy basis, as site licenses or as a solution set. During the three months ended June 30, 2015 , approximately 72% of software license revenue was sold on a per-terabyte capacity basis. Capacity based software licenses provide our customers with unlimited licenses of specified software products based on a defined level of terabytes of data under management. As a result, when we sell our platform through a capacity license, certain of the various Simpana functionalities are bundled into one capacity based price. We anticipate that capacity based licenses will continue to account for the majority of our software license revenue for the near future. Site licenses give the customer the additional right to deploy the software on a limited basis during a specified term. During our fiscal 2015, we released Solution Sets for our Simpana 10 software suite for virtual machine backup, recovery and cloud management; endpoint data protection; and email archive. These Simpana Solution Sets can be individually deployed or combined as part of a comprehensive data protection and information management solution. Our solution sets are generally sold on a per unit basis such as per virtual machine for our virtual machine backup, recovery and cloud management solution set; per mailbox for our email archive solution set and per user for our endpoint data protection solution set. Historically, an insignificant amount of our revenue has been sold under subscription, or term based, license arrangements. In these arrangements the customer has the right to use the software on either a capacity basis or per-copy or per-unit basis over a designated period of time. Revenue in these arrangements is recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. Over the next several years we expect revenue from these types of arrangements to become a more significant portion of our total revenue. The industry in which we currently operate continues to go through accelerating changes as the result of compounding data growth and the introduction of new technologies. We are continuing to pursue an aggressive product development program in both data and information management solutions. Our data management solutions include not only traditional backup, but also new innovations in de-duplication, data movement, virtualization, snap-based backups and enterprise reporting. Our information management innovations are primarily in the areas of archiving, eDiscovery, records management, governance, operational reporting and compliance. We remain focused on both the data and information management trends in the marketplace and, in fact, a material portion of our existing research and development expenses are utilized toward the development of such new technologies discussed above. While we are confident in our ability to meet these changing industry demands with our Simpana suite and potential future releases, the development, release and timing of any features or functionality remain at our sole discretion and our solutions or other technologies may not be widely adopted. 16 Table of Contents Given the nature of the industry in which we operate, our software applications are subject to obsolescence. As noted above, we continually develop and introduce updates to our existing software applications in order to keep pace with evolving industry technologies. In addition, we must address evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and competitive software applications that may render our existing software applications obsolete. For each of our software applications, we provide full support for the current generally available release and one prior release. When we declare a product release obsolete, a customer notice is delivered twelve months prior to the effective date of obsolescence announcing continuation of full product support for the first six months. We provide an additional six months of extended assistance support in which we only provide existing workarounds or fixes that do not require additional development activity. We do not have existing plans to make any of our software products permanently obsolete. In fiscal 2015, we commenced a business transformation plan to improve the performance of the Company. Our wide ranging plan includes initiatives related to products, packaging, pricing, distribution, sales enablement, territory alignment and a business unit product management structure. While we remain committed to this strategic direction, the execution of such a broad plan as ours can be disruptive, making execution of business strategies more difficult. These changes also present potential execution challenges as we may not be successful in implementing our initiatives, we may experience delays in the completion of such initiatives, or the initiatives may not have the desired effect on the business. In addition, the cost and related investments needed to address our business transformation may be more than expected. Given the dynamic industry we operate in, we are also vulnerable to increased product technology and competitive risks associated with these efforts. As a result, if we do not succeed in implementing these efforts, if they do not have the intended effect on the business, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, it could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Sources of Revenues We derive a significant portion of our total revenues from sales of licenses of our software applications. We do not customize our software for a specific end-user customer. We sell our software applications to end-user customers both directly through our sales force and indirectly through our global network of value-added reseller partners, systems integrators, corporate resellers and original equipment manufacturers. Our software revenue was 41% and 47% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. In recent fiscal periods, we have generated approximately three-quarters of our software revenue from our existing customer base and approximately one-quarter of our software revenue from new customers. In addition, our total software revenue in any particular period is, to a certain extent, dependent upon our ability to generate revenues from large customer software deals, which we refer to as enterprise software transactions. Enterprise software transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) represented approximately 49% and 63% of our total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Software revenue generated through indirect distribution channels was 89% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and was approximately 76% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . Software revenue generated through direct distribution channels was approximately 11% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and was approximately 24% of total software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . The dollar value of software revenue generated through indirect distribution channels decreased approximately $4.6 million , or 8% , in the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2014 . The dollar value of software revenue generated through direct distribution channels decreased approximately $11.0 million , or 64% , in the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2014 . The decrease in the dollar value of software revenue generated through our direct sales force is primarily the result of several large enterprise transactions which were conducted through our direct sales force in the prior year. Deals initiated by our direct sales force are sometimes transacted through indirect channels based on end-user customer requirements, which are not always in our control and can cause this overall percentage split to vary from period to period. As such, there may be fluctuations in the dollars and percentage of software revenue generated through our direct distribution channels from time to time. We believe that the growth of our software revenue, derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force, are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We will continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term. The failure of our indirect distribution channels or our direct sales force to effectively sell our software applications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We have a global original equipment manufacturer agreement with NetApp under which NetApp will integrate elements of our Simpana software suite with NetApp SnapShot and replication technology, under the NetApp SnapProtect brand. We also have an original equipment manufacturer agreement with Hitachi Data Systems for them to market, sell and support our software applications and services on a stand-alone basis and/or incorporate our software applications into their own hardware products. Hitachi Data Systems and NetApp have no obligation to recommend or offer our software applications exclusively or at all, and they have no minimum sales requirements and can terminate our relationship at any time. Sales through our original equipment manufacturer agreements, accounted for 18% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 14% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2014 . We also have non-exclusive distribution agreements covering our North American commercial markets and our U.S. Federal Government market with Arrow Enterprise Computing Solutions, Inc. ("Arrow"), a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc., and Avnet Technology Solutions ("Avnet"), a subsidiary of Avnet, Inc. Pursuant to these distribution agreements, these distributors primary role is to enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our products and services by managing our reseller partners and leveraging their own industry experience. We generated approximately 35% of our total revenues through Arrow in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and approximately 33% in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . If Arrow or Avnet were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products or if our agreement with Arrow or Avnet was terminated, and if we were unable to take back the management of our reseller channel or find another North American distributor to replace Arrow or Avnet, then it could have a material adverse effect on our future business. Historically, we have derived approximately half of our total revenues from services revenue. Our services revenue is made up of fees from the delivery of customer support and other professional services, which are typically sold in connection with the sale of our software applications. Customer support agreements provide technical support and unspecified software updates on a when-and-if-available basis for an annual fee based on licenses purchased and the level of service subscribed. Other professional services include consulting, assessment and design services, implementation and post-deployment services and training, all of which to date have predominantly been sold in connection with the sale of software applications. Our services revenue was 59% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 53% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2014 . Most of our customer support agreements are for a one year term. As the end of the annual period approaches, we pursue the renewal of the agreement with the customer. Historically, maintenance renewals have represented a significant portion of our total revenue. Because of this characteristic of our business, if our customers choose not to renew their maintenance and support agreements with us on beneficial terms, or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, in conjunction with our current business transformation and operational performance initiatives, we are evaluating the pricing and competitiveness of our maintenance and support costs to our customers. Our objective is to minimize the overall financial impact of such potential changes by replacing reduced revenue streams with additional sales of our software and services. However, if we reduce the price of our annual maintenance and support agreements to our customers without replacing this reduced revenue stream with sales of other software products or services, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The gross margin of our services revenue was 75.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 74.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2014 . Overall, our services revenue has lower gross margins than our software revenue. The gross margin of our software revenue was approximately 99% for both the three months ended June 30, 2015 and for the three months ended June 30, 2014 . An increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by services revenue may adversely affect our overall gross margins. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations Sales outside the United States were approximately 45% of our total revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 42% for the three months ended June 30, 2014 . The income statements of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions generally results in increased revenue, operating expenses and income from operations for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, our revenue, operating expenses and net income will generally decrease for our non-U.S. operations if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the three months ended June 30, 2014 our software revenue would have been higher by $4.7 million, our services revenue would have been higher by $5.2 million, our cost of sales would have been higher by approximately $1.4 million and our operating expenses would have been higher by $6.1 million from non-U.S. operations for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . 18 Table of Contents In addition, we are exposed to risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from cash balances, accounts receivables and intercompany accounts denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to the resulting transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of general and administrative expenses. We recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of approximately $0.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 , and net foreign currency transaction losses of $0.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with US GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. In many instances, we could have reasonably used different accounting estimates, and in other instances changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period-to-period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application, while in other cases, significant judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting standards that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. We consider these policies requiring significant management judgment to be critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are: Revenue Recognition; Stock-Based Compensation; Accounting for Income Taxes; and Software Development Costs There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended June 30, 2015 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2015 . In addition, please see Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our fiscal 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for a description of our accounting policies. Results of Operations The following table sets forth each of our sources of revenues and costs of revenues for the specified periods as a percentage of our total revenues for those periods (due to rounding, numbers in column may not sum to totals): Three Months Ended June 30, 2015 2014 Revenues: Software 41 % 47 % Services 59 % 53 % Total revenues 100 % 100 % Cost of revenues: Software % % Services 14 % 13 % Total cost of revenues 15 % 14 % Gross margin 85 % 86 % 19 Table of Contents Three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to three months ended June 30, 2014 Revenues Total revenues decreased $13.5 million , or 9% , from $152.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 to $139.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Software Revenue. Software revenue decreased $15.6 million , or 22% , from $72.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 to $56.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Software revenue represented 41% of our total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and compared to 47% of total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . We track software revenue on a geographic basis. The geographic regions that are tracked are the Americas (United States, Canada, Latin America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and APAC (Australia, New Zealand, Southeast Asia, China). Americas, EMEA and APAC represented 55%, 31% and 14% of total software revenue, respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The year over year growth (decline) of Software Revenue in the Americas, EMEA and APAC was (33%), 9% and (19%), respectively, resulting in consolidated Software Revenue decline of (22%). The Americas software revenue decline for the three months ended June 30, 2015 was the result of a decrease in enterprise transaction revenue. Enterprise transaction revenue declined as a result of a decline in both the number of enterprise transactions and the average dollar amount of enterprise transactions. The decline in enterprise transaction revenue was partially offset by an increase in non-enterprise transaction revenue. EMEA software revenue increased due to growth in both enterprise transaction revenue and non-enterprise transaction revenue increases of 10% and 8%, respectively. Year over year software revenue growth in EMEA was adversely impacted by changes in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. dollar strengthened significantly against the Euro and British pound sterling. Using average foreign exchange rates from the first quarter of fiscal 2015, first quarter fiscal 2016 EMEA software revenue increased 29% compared to an actual EMEA software revenue increase of 9%. The decline in APAC software revenue was primarily the result of a 31% decline in the average dollar amount of enterprise transactions. APAC software revenue growth was also impacted by the strengthening of the US dollar. Using fiscal 2015 first quarter average exchange rates the decline in year over year software revenue would have been 8% compared to the actual decline of 19%. Our software revenue in EMEA and APAC is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates as more fully discussed above in the Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations section. Software revenue derived from enterprise software transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) represented approximately 49% of our software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and approximately 63% of our software revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . Enterprise software transaction revenue decreased by $17.4 million , or 38% , in the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2014 . This decrease was driven by a 30% decline in the average dollar amount of such transactions and a 13% decrease in the number of such transactions. The average sales price was approximately $251,000 in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and approximately $356,000 in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . Software revenue derived from transactions less than $0.1 million increased $1.8 million , or 7% , in the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2014 . Services Revenue. Services revenue increased $2.0 million, or 3% , from $80.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 to $82.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Services revenue represented 59% of our total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 53% in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . The increase in services revenue is primarily due to a $3.5 million increase in revenue from customer support agreements as a result of software sales to new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base. The increase in customer support revenue was partially offset by a decline in professional services revenue. Cost of Revenues . Total cost of revenues decreased $0.4 million , or 2% , from $20.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 to $20.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Total cost of revenues represented 15% of our total revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 14% in the three months ended June 30, 2014. Cost of Software Revenue. Cost of software revenue was $0.5 million and $0.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Cost of Services Revenue. Cost of services revenue decreased $0.3 million , or 2% , from $20.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 to $20.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Cost of services revenue represented 24% of our services revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 25% in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . 20 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased $5.5 million , or 7% , from $80.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 to $85.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase is primarily due to a $4.9 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses mainly attributable to the expansion of our sales force from the prior year. Despite our decline in revenues, we continue to invest in sales and marketing headcount and related initiatives as part of our business transformation plan. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues increased to 62% in the three months ended June 30, 2015 from 53% in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased $1.7 million , or 12% , from $15.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 to $16.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase is primarily due to a $1.5 million increase in salary and related expenses resulting from the expansion of our engineering group and a $0.2 million increase in stock-based compensation expenses. Research and development expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 12% in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 10% in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . Investing in research and development has been a priority for Commvault, and we anticipate continued spending related to the development of our data and information management software applications. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $3.3 million , or 20% , from $16.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 to $19.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . This increase is due to a $2.0 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses and a $0.2 increase in stock-based compensation expenses. General and administrative expenses in the three months ended June 30, 2015 includes approximately $0.2 million of net foreign currency transaction loss compared to less than $0.1 million of net foreign currency transaction losses recognized in general and administrative expenses in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues was 14% in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 11% in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense increased by $0.8 million from $1.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 to $2.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in depreciation expense is the result of the move to our new corporate campus headquarters in the second half of fiscal 2015. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Income tax benefit was $5.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 compared to expense of $5.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . The effective tax rate in the three months ended June 30, 2015 was 79% as compared to 31% in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . The effective rate in the three months ended June 30, 2015 is higher than the statuary rate because projected unfavorable permanent differences represented a greater percentage of projected Income before taxes. The effective rate in the three months ended June 30, 2014 is lower than the federal statutory rate due to the recognition of certain previously unrecognized tax benefits and tax benefits from foreign tax credits and domestic production activities deductions. These benefits were partially offset by state income taxes and permanent differences in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2015 , our cash and cash equivalents balance of $350.5 million primarily consisted of money market funds. In addition, as of June 30, 2015 we have short-term investments invested in U.S. Treasury Bills totaling $60.9 million . In recent fiscal years, our principal source of liquidity has been cash provided by operations. As of June 30, 2015 , the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States by our foreign legal entities was approximately $124.3 million. These balances are dispersed across many international locations around the world. We believe that such dispersion meets the current and anticipated future liquidity needs of our foreign legal entities. In addition, it is our intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of our foreign legal entities. In the event we needed to repatriate funds from outside of the United States, such repatriation would likely be subject to restrictions by local laws and/or tax consequences including foreign withholding taxes or U.S. income taxes. It is not currently practical to estimate the legal restrictions or tax liability that would arise from such repatriations. 21 Table of Contents On June 30, 2014, we entered into a five-year $250 million revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility is available for share repurchases, general corporate purposes, and letters of credit. The Credit Facility contains financial maintenance covenants including a leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio. The Credit Facility also contains certain customary events of default which would permit the lenders to, among other things, declare all loans then outstanding to be immediately due and payable if such default is not cured within applicable grace periods. The Credit Facility also limits our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness, create or permit liens on assets, make acquisitions, make investments, loans or advances, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends or distributions, and engage in certain transactions with foreign affiliates. Outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility accrue interest at an annual rate equal to London Interbank Offered Rate plus 1.50% subject to increases based on the Company's actual leverage. The unused balance on the Credit Facility is also subject to a 0.25% annual interest charge subject to increases based on the Company's actual leverage. As of June 30, 2015 , there were no borrowings under the Credit Facility and we believe we are in compliance with all covenants. During the three months ended June 30, 2015 , we did not repurchase any of common stock shares under our share repurchase program. As of July 28, 2015 , there is $100.0 million remaining in the share repurchase program which expires on March 31, 2016. Under our stock repurchase program, repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to unissued status. Our stock repurchase program has been funded by our existing cash and cash equivalent balances as well as cash flows provided by our operations. The primary business reason for our stock repurchase program is to reduce the dilutive impact on our common shares outstanding associated with stock option exercises and our previous public and private stock offerings. Our future stock repurchase activity is subject to the business judgment of our management and Board of Directors, taking into consideration our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and other anticipated capital requirements or investment alternatives. Our summarized cash flow information is as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2015 2014 Cash provided by operating activities $ 21,897 $ 35,444 Net cash used in investing activities (14,737 ) (19,530 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 3,499 (101,200 ) Effects of exchange rate-changes in cash 2,137 1,096 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 12,796 $ (84,190 ) Net cash provided by operating activities was $21.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and $35.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . In the three months ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 , cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to net income (loss) adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges, and decreases in accounts receivable due to timing of cash receipts, partially offset by a reduction of accrued expenses. Net cash used in investing activities was $14.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015 and $19.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . In the three months ended June 30, 2015 , cash used in investing activities was due to $10.9 million in net purchases of U.S. Treasury Bills, $2.1 million of incremental spending on the Companys planned corporate campus headquarters, and $1.7 million of capital expenditures. In the three months ended June 30, 2014 , cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $18.2 million of incremental spending on the Company's planned corporate campus headquarters. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $3.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 and $(101.2) million in the three months ended June 30, 2014 . The cash provided by financing activities in the three months ended June 30, 2015 was due to $1.8 million of excess tax benefits recognized as a result of the stock option exercises and $1.7 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. The net cash used in financing activities in the three months ended June 30, 2014 was primarily due to $105.1 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock under our repurchase program, partially offset by $2.8 million of excess tax benefits recognized as a result of the stock option exercises and $2.2 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 22 Table of Contents Working capital increased $18.0 million from $283.6 million as of March 31, 2015 to $301.6 million as of June 30, 2015 . The increase in working capital is due primarily to a $23.7 million increase in cash and short-term investments. The increase in cash and short-term investments is primarily the result of net income adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges and decreases in accounts receivable. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and our cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures and potential stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings or other arrangements during this period. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2015 , other than our operating leases, we do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Indemnifications Certain of our software licensing agreements contain certain provisions that indemnify our customers from any claim, suit or proceeding arising from alleged or actual intellectual property infringement. These provisions continue in perpetuity along with our software licensing agreements. We have never incurred a liability relating to one of these indemnification provisions in the past and we believe that the likelihood of any future payout relating to these provisions is remote. Therefore, we have not recorded a liability during any period related to these indemnification provisions. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)." This amendment provides principles for recognizing revenue for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers with the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard will apply to the Company in fiscal 2019 with early adoption allowable in fiscal 2018. We are currently evaluating the accounting, transition and disclosure requirements of the standard and cannot currently estimate the financial statement impact of adoption.