Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Sources of Revenue section. Additionally, we have distribution agreements covering our North American commercial and U.S. Federal Government markets with Arrow Enterprise Computing Solutions, Inc. (Arrow), a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc., and Avnet Technology Solutions (Avnet), a subsidiary of Avent Inc. Pursuant to these distribution agreements, Arrows and Avnets primary role is to enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our products and services by managing our reseller partners and leveraging their own industry experience. Service Providers. We work with many service providers to ensure that customer data is protected, managed and stored securely while delivering rapid self-service access by leveraging the modern data management capabilities in the single-platform Simpana software to deliver backup, archive, disaster recovery and eDiscovery services. Our significant premier partners include Bluelock, Cerner, IlliniCloud, KIO Networks, Peak 10, Presilient, Rackspace, Tenzing, Terremark and Ubistor. Customers We sell Simpana software applications and related services directly to large global enterprises, small and medium sized businesses and government agencies, and indirectly through value-added resellers, systems integrators, corporate resellers and original equipment manufacturer partners. As of March 31, 2013, we had licensed our software applications to approximately 18,200 registered customers in a broad range of industries, including banking, insurance and financial services, government, healthcare, pharmaceuticals and medical services, technology, legal, manufacturing, utilities and energy. Sales through our reseller agreement and original equipment manufacturer agreement with Dell accounted for approximately 20% of our total revenues for fiscal 2013 and 22% for fiscal 2012. Dell is an original equipment manufacturer and a reseller that purchases software from us for resale to its customers, but is not the end-user of our software. Sales generated through our distribution agreement with Arrow accounted for approximately 29% of our total revenue in fiscal 2013 and 26% in fiscal 2012. Revenue from sales to the U.S. Federal Government accounted for less than 10% of our total revenues in both fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. Technology Our Common Platform serves as a major differentiator versus our competitors data and information management software products. Our Common Platforms unique indexing, cataloging, data movement, media 12 Table of Contents management and policy technologies are the source of the performance, scale, management, cost of ownership benefits and seamless interoperability inherent in all of our data and information management software applications. Additional options enable content search, data encryption and auditing features to support data discovery and compliance requirements. Each of these applications shares a common architecture consisting of three core components: intelligent agent software, data movement software and command and control software. These components may be installed on a single host server, or each may be distributed over many servers in a global network. Additionally, the modularity of our software provides deployment flexibility. The ability to share storage resources across multiple data and information management applications provides easier data and information management and lower total cost of ownership. We participate in industry standards groups and activities that we believe will have a direct bearing on the data and information management software market. Our software architecture consists of integrated software components that are grouped together to form a CommCell. Components of a CommCell are as follows: One CommServe One or more MediaAgents One or more iDataAgents Each highly scalable CommCell may be configured to reflect a customers geographic, organizational or application environment. Multiple CommCells can be aggregated into a single, centralized view for policy-based management across a customers local or global information technology environment. CommServe. The CommServe acts as the command and control center of the CommCell and handles all requests for activity between MediaAgent and iDataAgent components. The CommServe contains the centralized event and job managers and the index catalog. This database includes information about where data resides, such as the library, media and content of data. The centralized event manager logs all events, providing unified notification of important events. The job manager automates and monitors all jobs across the CommCell. MediaAgent. The MediaAgent is a media independent module that is responsible for managing the movement of data between the iDataAgents and the physical storage devices. Our MediaAgents communicate with a broad range of storage devices, generating an index for use by each of our software applications. The MediaAgent software supports most storage devices, including automated magnetic tape libraries, tape stackers and loaders, standalone tape drives and magnetic storage devices, magneto-optical libraries, virtual tape libraries, DVD-RAM and CD-RW devices. iDataAgent. The iDataAgent is a software module that resides on the server or other computing device and controls the data being protected, replicated, migrated or archived, often referred to simply as the client software. iDataAgents communicate with most open and network file systems and enterprise relational databases and applications, such as Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft SharePoint, Notes Domino Server, GroupWise, Oracle, Informix, Sybase, DB2 and SAP, to generate application aware indexes pertinent to granular recovery of application objects. The agent software contains the logic necessary to extract (or recover) data and send it to (or receive it from) the MediaAgent software. Sales and Marketing We sell our Simpana data and information management software applications and related services to large global enterprises, small and medium sized businesses, and government agencies. We sell through our worldwide direct sales force and our global network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, corporate resellers and original equipment manufacturer partners. As of March 31, 2013, we had 521 employees in sales and marketing. These employees are primarily located in North America, Europe, Australia and Asia. We have a variety of marketing programs designed to create brand awareness and market recognition for our product offerings and for sales lead generation. Our marketing efforts include active participation at trade 13 Table of Contents shows, technical conferences and technology seminars; advertising; content development and distribution; public relations; social media; industry analyst relations; publication of technical and educational articles in industry journals; sales training; and preparation of competitive analyses. In addition, our strategic partners augment our marketing and sales campaigns through seminars, trade shows and joint public relations and advertising campaigns. Our customers and strategic partners provide references and recommendations that we often feature in external marketing activities. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our data and information management software applications. As of March 31, 2013, we had 396 employees in our research and development group, of which 142 are located in our Hyderabad and Bangalore development centers in India. In April 2012, we opened a new product development center in Bangalore, India, which increased our existing presence in India. Our engineering efforts support product development across all major operating systems, databases, applications and network storage devices. A substantial amount of our development effort goes into certification, integration and support of our applications to ensure interoperability with our strategic partners hardware and software products. We have also made substantial investments in the automation of our product test and quality assurance laboratories. We spent $47.4 million on research and development activities in fiscal 2013, $39.9 million in fiscal 2012 and $37.0 million in fiscal 2011. Competition The data storage management market is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving standards. We currently compete with other providers of data and information management software as well as large storage hardware manufacturers that have developed or acquired their own data and information management software products. These manufacturers have the resources and capabilities to develop their own data and information management software applications, and many have been making acquisitions and broadening their efforts to include broader data and information management and storage products. These manufacturers and/or our other current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, creating new competitors or alliances. Large operating system and application vendors, including Microsoft, have introduced products or functionality that includes some of the same functions offered by our software applications. In the future, further development by these vendors could cause some features of our software applications to become redundant. The following are our primary competitors in the data and information management software applications market, each of which has one or more products that compete with a part of or our entire software suite: EMC IBM Symantec The principal competitive factors in our industry include product functionality, product performance, product integration, platform coverage, ability to scale, price, worldwide sales infrastructure, global technical support, name recognition and reputation. The ability of major system vendors to bundle hardware and software solutions is also a significant competitive factor in our industry. Although many of our competitors have greater resources, a larger installed customer base and greater name recognition, we believe we compete favorably on the basis of these competitive factors. Our unique product architecture is one of the primary reasons why we compete so successfully. Whereas other competitive solutions in the market are based on multiple, disparate products, our modular offering is based 14 Table of Contents on a single, unified, underlying code base resulting in favorable efficiencies in functionality, integration, scalability and support. Our focused approach to data and information management and our ability to respond to customer feedback also drives the functionality and features of our products, which we believe lead the industry in terms of performance and usability, as evidenced by numerous industry awards we have received in the past 12 months such as the 2012 Silver Rising Star Award from the Global Technology Distribution Council (GTDC) in recognition of exceptional U.S. sales growth over the past year through distribution partners and Midsize Enterprise Summit East 2012 XCellence Awards in the category of Best Midmarket Solution, Software. From a customer perspective, highly integrated products such as ours, which are based on a single, unified, underlying code base, are easier and less expensive to deploy, operate and manage. This flexibility, in turn, makes it significantly easier to scale our products over a customers entire IT environment. Supporting and enhancing our products is made more efficient due to this single, unified, underlying code base, unlike our competitors who are required to support and enhance multiple, disparate products, most of which are based on differing underlying software codes. Supporting multiple, disparate products places larger demands on our competitors internal human and operational capital. We believe that Simpana software, because of its unique architecture, creates a compelling functional, integration, scalability and support advantage. We continue to expand our worldwide sales infrastructure and increase our distribution throughout the Americas, Europe, Middle East/Africa, Australia and Asia to meet the needs of our business. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and may have the ability to offer their products at lower prices than ours. In addition, some of our competitors have greater name recognition than us, which could provide them a competitive advantage at some customers. Some of our competitors also have longer operating histories, have substantially greater technical, sales, marketing and other global resources than we do, as well as a larger installed customer base and broader product offerings, including hardware. As a result, these competitors can devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products than we can. Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights Our success and ability to compete depend on our continued development and protection of our proprietary software and other technologies. We rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, as well as contractual provisions, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We provide our software to customers pursuant to license agreements that impose restrictions on use. These license agreements are primarily in the form of shrink-wrap or click-wrap licenses, which are not negotiated with or signed by our end-user customers. These measures may afford only limited protection of our intellectual property and proprietary rights associated with our software. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with employees and consultants involved in product development. We routinely require our employees, customers and potential business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements before we disclose any sensitive aspects of our software, technology or business plans. As of March 31, 2013, we had 225 issued patents and 209 pending patent applications in the United States, as well as 74 issued patents in foreign countries and 64 pending foreign patent applications. Pending patent applications may receive unfavorable examination and are not guaranteed allowance as issued patents. We may elect to abandon or otherwise not pursue prosecution of certain pending patent applications due to patent examination results, economic considerations, strategic concerns or other factors. We will continue to assess appropriate occasions to seek patent and other intellectual property protection for innovative aspects of our technology that we believe provide us a significant competitive advantage. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets and proprietary rights through patents and license and confidentiality agreements, unauthorized parties may still attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our software and technology. In addition, we intend to expand our international operations and effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may not be available or may be limited in foreign countries. If 15 Table of Contents we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business could be negatively impacted. We currently resell certain software from Microsoft, including Microsoft SQL Server, used in conjunction with our software applications pursuant to an independent software vendor royalty license and distribution agreement that we have and plan to continue renewing annually. We also currently resell certain other software from Microsoft, including Windows Pre-installation Environment software, used in conjunction with our software applications, pursuant to an agreement with Microsoft that expires May 31, 2014. We have entered into and expect to enter into agreements with additional third parties to license their technology for use with our software applications. Some of the products or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us may incorporate so-called open source software and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. The use of such open source software may ultimately subject some products to unintended conditions, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and ability to commercialize our products or technologies. From time to time, we are participants or members of various industry standard-setting organizations or other industry technical organizations. Our participation or membership in such organizations may, in some circumstances, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties regarding our intellectual property under terms established by those organizations, which we may find unfavorable. In the United States, we own federal registrations for or have common law trademark rights in the following marks: CommVault, CV Logo & CommVault, the CV logo, CommVault Systems, Solving Forward, SIM, Singular Information Management, Simpana, Simpana (logo), CommVault Galaxy, CommVault Edge Unified Data Management, QiNetix, Quick Recovery, QR, CommNet, GridStor, Vault Tracker, InnerVault, Quick Snap, QSnap, IntelliSnap, Simpana OnePass, Recovery Director, CommServe, CommCell, ROMS, Distinctly Data and CommValue. We also have several other trademarks and have obtained or are actively pursuing trademark registrations in several foreign jurisdictions. Employees As of March 31, 2013, we had 1,740 employees worldwide, including 521 in sales and marketing, 396 in research and development, 161 in general and administration and 662 in customer services and support. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have never experienced a work stoppage and believe our relationship with our employees is good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table presents information with respect to our executive officers as of May 15, 2013: Name Age Position N. Robert Hammer 71 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Alan G. Bunte 59 Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Brian Carolan 42 Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Louis F. Miceli 63 Senior Vice President, Finance Ron Miiller 46 Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales David West 47 Senior Vice President, Marketing and Business Development N. Robert Hammer has served as our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer since March 1998. Mr. Hammer was also a venture partner from 1997 until December 2003 of the Sprout Group, the venture capital 16 Table of Contents arm of Credit Suisses asset management business. Prior to joining the Sprout Group, Mr. Hammer served as the chairman, president and chief executive officer of Norand Corporation, a portable computer systems manufacturer, from 1988 until its acquisition by Western Atlas, Inc. in 1997. Mr. Hammer led Norand following its leveraged buy-out from Pioneer Hi-Bred International, Inc. and through its initial public offering in 1993. Prior to joining Norand, Mr. Hammer also served as chairman, president and chief executive officer of publicly-held Telequest Corporation from 1987 until 1988 and of privately-held Material Progress Corporation from 1982 until 1987. Prior to joining Material Progress Corporation, Mr. Hammer spent 15 years in various sales, marketing and management positions with Celanese Corporation, rising to the level of vice president and general manager of the structural composites materials business. Mr. Hammer obtained his bachelors degree and masters degree in business administration from Columbia University. Alan G. Bunte has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since October 2003 and served as our senior vice president from December 1999 until October 2003. Since January 2008, Mr. Bunte has also served as a director of CommVault. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Bunte was with Norand Corporation from 1986 to January 1998, serving as its senior vice president of planning and business development from 1991 to January 1998. Mr. Bunte obtained his bachelors and masters degrees in business administration from the University of Iowa. Brian Carolan has served as our Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer since October 2012. Prior to his current role, Mr. Carolan served as our Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer from July 2006 until September 2012. He also held the position of Controller from February 2001 until June 2006. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Carolan was with Ernst & Young LLP in its Technology, Communications and Entertainment audit practice from 1993 until January 2001. Mr. Carolan obtained his bachelors degree in accounting from Villanova University, his masters degree in business administration from New York University and is a certified public accountant in the State of New Jersey. Louis F. Miceli has served as our Senior Vice President, Finance since October 2012. Prior to his current role, Mr. Miceli served as our Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from April 2011 to October 2012 and our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 1997 to March 2011. Mr. Miceli has over 30 years of experience in various finance capacities for several high-technology companies. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Miceli served as chief financial officer of University Hospital, part of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey (UMDNJ), from 1994 until 1997 and as the corporate controller of UMDNJ from 1992 until 1994. Prior to joining UMDNJ, Mr. Miceli served as the chief financial officer of Syntrex, Inc., a word processing software and hardware manufacturer, from 1985 until 1992, and as its controller from 1980 until 1985. Mr. Miceli began his career as a staff auditor at Ernst & Ernst LLP (currently Ernst & Young LLP), where he served five years. Mr. Miceli obtained his bachelors degree, cum laude , in accounting from Seton Hall University and is a certified public accountant in the State of New Jersey. Ron Miiller has served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales since April 2011. Prior to his current role, Mr. Miiller served as our Vice President of Sales, Americas from January 2005 to March 2011 and as our Central Region Sales Manager from March 2000 to December 2004. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Miiller served as Director, Central Region Sales for Softworks, Inc., an EMC company, from March 1997 through March 2000, and prior to that Mr. Miiller was with Moore Corporation, a diversified print and electronic communications company from 1989 through March 1997 in various leadership roles. Mr. Miiller received his bachelor of science degree in marketing from Ball State University in 1989. David West has served as our Senior Vice President, Marketing and Business Development since April 2011. Prior to his current role, Mr. West served as Vice President, Marketing and Business Development from September 2005 to March 2011 and Vice President, Business Development from August 2000 to September 2005. Prior to joining our company, Mr. West served as a director of strategic alliances from April 1999 to July 2000 and vice president of storage solutions in July 2000 at Legato Systems, Inc., which was subsequently acquired by EMC Corporation. Prior to joining Legato Systems, Mr. West served as vice president of sales at 17 Table of Contents Intelliguard Software, Inc., which was also subsequently acquired by EMC Corporation, from 1990 to April 1999. Mr. West obtained his bachelors degree in electrical engineering from Villanova University. Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Our industry is intensely competitive, and most of our competitors have greater financial, technical and sales and marketing resources and larger installed customer bases than we do, which could enable them to compete more effectively than we do. The data and information management software market is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving standards, changing customer requirements and frequent new product introductions. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. Our primary competitors include EMC, IBM and Symantec Corporation. The principal competitive factors in our industry include product functionality, product integration, platform coverage, ability to scale, price, worldwide sales infrastructure, global technical support, name recognition and reputation. The ability of major system vendors to bundle hardware and software solutions is also a significant competitive factor in our industry. If we are unable to address these factors, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decline in revenues that could adversely affect our business. Most of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, as well as larger installed customer bases, greater name recognition and broader product offerings, including hardware. These competitors can devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products than we can and have the ability to bundle their hardware and software products in a combined offering. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It is also costly and time-consuming to change data and information management systems. Most of our new customers have installed data and information management software, which gives an incumbent competitor an advantage in retaining a customer because it already understands the network infrastructure, user demands and information technology needs of the customer, and also because some customers are reluctant to invest the time and money necessary to change vendors. Our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. If so, new competitors or alliances that include our competitors may emerge that could acquire significant market share. In addition, large operating system and application vendors, as well as some hardware manufacturers, have introduced products or functionality that includes some of the same functions offered by our software applications. In the future, further development by these vendors could cause our software applications and services to become redundant, which could seriously harm our sales, results of operations and financial condition. New competitors entering our markets can have a negative impact on our competitive positioning. In addition, we expect to encounter new competitors as we enter new markets. Furthermore, many of our existing 18 Table of Contents competitors are broadening their operating systems platform coverage. We also expect increased competition from original equipment manufacturers, including those we partner with, and from systems and network management companies, especially those that have historically focused on the mainframe computer market and have been making acquisitions and broadening their efforts to include data and information management and storage products. We expect that competition will increase as a result of future software industry consolidation. Increased competition could harm our business by causing, among other things, price reductions of our products, reduced profitability and loss of market share. We rely on indirect sales channels, such as value-added resellers, systems integrators, corporate resellers, distributors and original equipment manufacturers, for the distribution of our software applications, and the failure of these channels to effectively sell our software applications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We rely significantly on our value-added resellers, systems integrators and corporate resellers, which we collectively refer to as resellers, for the marketing and distribution of our software applications and services. Resellers are our most significant distribution channel. However, our agreements with resellers are generally not exclusive, are generally renewable annually, typically do not contain minimum sales requirements and in many cases may be terminated by either party without cause. Many of our resellers carry software applications that are competitive with ours. These resellers may give a higher priority to other software applications, including those of our competitors, or may not continue to carry our software applications at all. If a number of resellers were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products, or were to promote our competitors products in lieu of our own, it would have a material adverse effect on our future revenues. Events or occurrences of this nature could seriously harm our sales and results of operations. If we fail to manage our resellers successfully, there may be conflicts between resellers, or they could fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales. In addition, we expect that a portion of our sales growth will depend upon our ability to identify and attract new reseller partners. Our competitors also use reseller arrangements and may be more successful in attracting reseller partners and could enter into exclusive relationships with resellers that make it difficult to expand our reseller network. Any failure on our part to maintain and/or expand our network of resellers could impair our ability to grow revenues in the future. Some of our resellers possess significant resources and advanced technical abilities. These resellers, particularly our corporate resellers, may, either independently or jointly with our competitors, develop and market products and related services that compete with our offerings. If this were to occur, these resellers might discontinue marketing and distributing our software applications and services. In addition, these resellers would have an advantage over us when marketing their competing products and related services because of their existing customer relationships. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, we have distribution agreements covering our North American commercial markets and our U.S. Federal Government market with Arrow Enterprise Computing Solutions, Inc. (Arrow), a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc., and Avnet Technology Solutions (Avnet), a subsidiary of Avnet, Inc. Pursuant to these distribution agreements, these distributors primary role is to enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our products and services by managing our reseller partners and leveraging their own industry experience. Many of our North American resellers have been transitioned to either Arrow or Avnet. Sales through our distribution agreement with Arrow accounted for approximately 29% of our total revenues for fiscal 2013 and approximately 26% for fiscal 2012. Arrow accounted for a total of approximately 39% of our accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2013 as a result of our reseller agreement. If we were to see an impairment of our receivable balance from Arrow, it could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. Avnets total revenue contribution was not material for fiscal 2013 and 2012 and its accounts receivable balance was not material as of March 31, 2013. If Arrow or Avnet were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products or if our agreement with Arrow or Avnet was terminated, and if we were unable to take back the management of 19 Table of Contents our reseller channel or find another North American distributor to replace Arrow or Avnet, then it could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues. Sales through Dell as a result of our reseller agreement as well as our original equipment manufacturer agreement, which is discussed below, accounted for approximately 20% of total revenues for fiscal 2013 and 22% of total revenues for fiscal 2012. Dell also accounted for a total of approximately 23% of our accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2013. In recent fiscal quarters, we have begun to shift most of our small and medium business segment transactions to non-Dell distribution partners as Dell is now focused on this segment of the market with their own intellectual property. As a result, the majority of the revenue that is still transacted through Dell comes from add-on purchases from our existing install base and from new enterprise software transactions where our sales force is directly involved. We have also recently begun to take proactive steps to broaden our distribution related to enterprise software transactions. Over time, we believe it is likely that these actions will result in a decline in the percentage of our total revenues transacted through Dell. Due to the timing of enterprise software transactions that are currently in our sales and marketing pipeline, there will likely be some fluctuations in the amount of revenue transacted through Dell from quarter to quarter. If we are unable to find additional or existing partners to replace the revenues that were previously transacted through Dell, it could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and results of operations. In addition, if we were to see an impairment of our receivable balance from Dell, it could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. Our original equipment manufacturer agreements are primarily with Dell, Hitachi Data Systems and NetApp. Our original equipment manufacturers sell our software applications and in some cases incorporate our data and information management software into systems that they sell. A material portion of our revenues is generated through these arrangements. However, we have no control over the shipping dates or volumes of systems these original equipment manufacturers ship and they have no obligation to ship systems incorporating our software applications. They also have no obligation to recommend or offer our software applications exclusively or at all, and they have no minimum sales requirements and can terminate our relationship at any time. These original equipment manufacturers also could choose to develop their own data and information management software internally and incorporate those products into their systems instead of our software applications. The original equipment manufacturers that we do business with also compete with one another. If one of our original equipment manufacturer partners views our arrangement with another original equipment manufacturer as competing with its products, it may decide to stop doing business with us. Any material decrease in the volume of sales generated by original equipment manufacturers we do business with, as a result of these factors or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations in future periods. Sales through our original equipment manufacturer agreements accounted for approximately 15% of our total revenues for fiscal 2013 and 12% of our total revenues for fiscal 2012. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes with new software applications and services offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The markets for our software applications are characterized by rapid technological changes, changing customer needs, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The introduction of software applications embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could make our existing and future software applications obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict the lifecycle of our software applications, and they may become obsolete before we receive the amount of revenues that we anticipate from them. If any of the foregoing events were to occur, our ability to retain or increase market share in the data and information management software market could be materially adversely affected. We devote significant resources to the development of new products and the enhancement of existing products. To be successful, we need to anticipate, develop and introduce new software applications and services on a timely and cost-effective basis that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry 20 Table of Contents standards and that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. We may fail to develop and market software applications and services that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards, experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these applications and services or fail to develop applications and services that adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop and market such applications and services on a timely basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Volatility in the global economy could adversely impact our continued growth, results of operations and our ability to forecast future business. As our business has expanded globally, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions. Uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment and associated global economic conditions have resulted in volatility in credit, equity, particularly with respect to the ongoing European sovereign debt crisis and potential ramifications of U.S. debt issues and budget concerns. These global economic conditions can result in slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. There has also been increased volatility in foreign exchange markets. These factors make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. In addition, these factors could cause customers to slow or defer spending on our software and services products, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles and negatively affect our results of operations. If such conditions deteriorate or if the pace of economic recovery is slower or more uneven, our results of operations could be adversely affected, we may not be able to sustain the growth rates we have experienced recently, and we could fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We continue to invest in our business in the Asia-Pacific and Europe, Middle East, and Africa regions. There are significant risks with overseas investments and growth prospects in these regions. Increased volatility or further declines in the European credit, equity and foreign currency markets could cause delays in or cancellations of European orders. Deterioration of economic conditions in the countries in which we do business could also cause slower or impaired collections on accounts receivable. In addition, we could experience delays in the payment obligations of our worldwide resellers if they experience weakness in the end-user market, which would increase our credit risk exposure and harm our financial condition. In periods of volatile economic conditions, our exposure to credit risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable significantly increases. Our outstanding accounts receivables are generally not secured. In addition, our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following the receipt of our product. Due to the recent volatile economic conditions, certain of our customers and resellers have faced or may face liquidity concerns which could result in our customers or resellers not being able to satisfy their payment obligations to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables and have not suffered any material losses to date, there can be no assurance such procedures will continue to effectively limit our credit risk and avoid future losses. 21 Table of Contents We may experience a decline in revenues or volatility in our quarterly operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict our future quarterly revenues or operating results with certainty because of many factors outside of our control. A significant revenue or profit decline, lowered forecasts or volatility in our operating results could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. Factors that could affect our revenues and operating results include the following: the unpredictability of the timing and magnitude of orders for our software applications, particularly software transactions greater than $100,000 in recent fiscal years, a majority of our quarterly revenues were earned and recorded near the end of each quarter; the possibility that our customers may cancel, defer or limit purchases as a result of reduced information technology budgets; the possibility that our customers may defer purchases of our software applications in anticipation of new software applications or updates from us or our competitors; the ability of our original equipment manufacturers and resellers to meet their sales objectives; market acceptance of our new applications and enhancements; our ability to control expenses; changes in our pricing and distribution terms or those of our competitors; and the demands on our management, sales force and services infrastructure as a result of the introduction of new software applications or updates. Our expense levels are relatively fixed and are based, in part, on our expectations of future revenues. If revenue levels fall below our expectations and we are profitable at the time, our net income would decrease because only a small portion of our expenses varies with our revenues. Therefore, any significant decline in revenues for any period could have an immediate adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. In addition, our results of operations could be below expectations of public market analysts and investors in future periods, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We encounter long sales and implementation cycles, particularly for our larger customers, which could have an adverse effect on the size, timing and predictability of our revenues. Potential or existing customers, particularly larger enterprise customers, generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them as to the value of our software and services. Sales of our core software products to these larger customers often require an extensive education and marketing effort. We could expend significant funds and resources during a sales cycle and ultimately fail to win the customer. Our sales cycle for all of our products and services is subject to significant risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including: our customers budgetary constraints; the timing of our customers budget cycles and approval processes; our customers willingness to replace their current software solutions; our need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our products and services; and 22 Table of Contents the timing of the expiration of our customers current license agreements or outsourcing agreements for similar services. If our sales cycles lengthen unexpectedly, they could adversely affect the timing of our revenues or increase costs, which may cause fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and results of operations. Finally, if we are unsuccessful in closing sales of our products after spending significant funds and management resources, our operating margins and results of operations could be adversely impacted, and the price of our common stock could decline. We depend on growth in the data and information management software market, and lack of growth or contraction in this market could have a material adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. Demand for data and information management software is linked to growth in the amount of data generated and stored, demand for data retention and management (whether as a result of regulatory requirements or otherwise) and demand for and adoption of new storage devices and networking technologies. Because our software applications are concentrated within the data and information management software market, if the demand for storage devices, storage software applications, storage capacity or storage networking devices declines, our sales, profitability and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Segments of the computer and software industry have in the past experienced significant economic downturns. The occurrence of any of these factors in the data and information management software market could materially adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. Furthermore, the data and information management software market is dynamic and evolving. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the number of organizations adopting data and information management software for their computing environments. The market for data and information management software may not continue to grow at historic rates, or at all. If this market fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Our software applications are complex and may contain undetected errors, which could adversely affect not only our software applications performance but also our reputation and the acceptance of our software applications in the market. Software applications as complex as those we offer contain undetected errors or failures, especially when products are first introduced or new versions are released. Despite extensive testing by us and by our customers, we have in the past discovered errors in our software applications and will do so in the future. As a result of past discovered errors, we experienced delays and lost revenues while we corrected those software applications. In addition, customers in the past have brought to our attention bugs in our software created by the customers unique operating environments, which are often characterized by a wide variety of both standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing very difficult and time consuming. Although we have been able to fix these software bugs in the past, we may not always be able to do so. Our software products may also be subject to intentional attacks by viruses that seek to take advantage of these bugs, errors or other weaknesses. Any of these events may result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our software applications and services, which would seriously harm our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we believe that our reputation and name recognition are critical factors in our ability to compete and generate additional sales. Promotion and enhancement of our name will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide effective software applications and services. The occurrence of errors in our software applications or the detection of bugs by our customers may damage our reputation in the market and our relationships with our existing customers, and as a result, we may be unable to attract or retain customers. In addition, because our software applications are used to manage data that is often critical to our customers, they may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, applications. 23 Table of Contents As a result, the licensing and support of our software applications involve the risk of product liability claims. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. However, the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements vary and may not be effective as a result of existing or future national, federal, state, or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. Although we have not experienced any material product liability claims to date, the sale and support of our products entail the risk of such claims, which could be substantial in light of the use of our products in enterprise-wide environments. In addition, our insurance against product liability may not be adequate to cover all potential claims. If our customers do not renew their annual maintenance and support agreements for our products or if they do not renew them on terms that are favorable to us, our business might suffer. Most of our maintenance agreements are for a one year term. As the end of the annual period approaches, we pursue the renewal of the agreement with the customer. Historically, maintenance renewals have represented a significant portion of our total revenue. Because of this characteristic of our business, if our customers choose not to renew their maintenance and support agreements with us on beneficial terms, or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We develop software applications that interoperate with operating systems and hardware developed by others, and if the developers of those operating systems and hardware do not cooperate with us or we are unable to devote the necessary resources so that our applications interoperate with those systems, our software development efforts may be delayed or foreclosed and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our software applications operate primarily on the Windows, UNIX, Linux and Novell Netware operating systems and the hardware devices of numerous manufacturers. When new or updated versions of these operating systems and hardware devices are introduced, it is often necessary for us to develop updated versions of our software applications so that they interoperate properly with these systems and devices. We may not accomplish these development efforts quickly or cost-effectively, and it is not clear what the relative growth rates of these operating systems and hardware will be. These development efforts require the cooperation of the developers of the operating systems and hardware, substantial capital investment and the devotion of substantial employee resources. For some operating systems, we must obtain some proprietary application program interfaces from the owner in order to develop software applications that interoperate with the operating system. Operating system owners have no obligation to assist in these development efforts. If they do not provide us with assistance or the necessary proprietary application program interfaces on a timely basis, we may experience delays or be unable to expand our software applications into other areas. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing software is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. Our research and development expenses were $47.4 million, or 10% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013, $39.9 million, or 10% of our total revenues in fiscal 2012 and $37.0 million, or 12% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011. Our future plans include significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we may not recognize significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our business. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our key technical, sales, services and management personnel. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to execute our existing 24 Table of Contents business operations and identify and pursue new growth opportunities. The loss of key employees could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration and training of replacement personnel could be time consuming, cause additional disruptions to our business and be unsuccessful. We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our employees. Our future success also depends on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales, services and management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may fail to retain our key technical, sales, services and management employees or attract or retain other highly qualified technical, sales, services and management personnel in the future. Furthermore, in the past, we have experienced higher levels of turnover in our sales force compared to other employee groups in our company. Increases in the turnover rate of our sales force may affect our ability to generate license revenue growth. Although we have hired replacements in our sales force and are continuing to hire additional sales personnel to grow our business, we sometimes experience lower productivity from newly hired sales personnel for a period up to twelve months. In addition, we periodically make adjustments to our sales organization in response to a variety of internal and external factors, such as market opportunities, competitive threats, product introductions or enhancements and sales performance. Such adjustments could be temporarily disruptive and result in reduced productivity. The volatility of our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to attract or retain employees. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified employees across our organization, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our personnel costs would be excessive and our business and profitability could be adversely affected. Our international sales and operations are subject to factors that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have significant sales and services operations outside the United States, and derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these operations. We also plan to continue to expand our international operations. We generated approximately 42% of our revenues from outside the United States in fiscal 2013 and 39% in fiscal 2012. Accordingly, international sales increased 31% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. Expansion of our international operations will require a significant amount of attention from our management and substantial financial resources and might require us to add qualified management in these markets. In addition to facing risks similar to the risks faced by our domestic operations, our international operations are also subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many countries, including: difficulties in staffing and managing our international operations; foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe and in other periods in other countries, could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, including those pertaining to export restrictions, privacy and data protection, trade and employment restrictions and intellectual property protections; longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; 25 Table of Contents competition from local suppliers; greater risk of a failure of our employees to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices; costs and delays associated with developing software in multiple languages; and political unrest, war or acts of terrorism. Our business in emerging markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in those markets. Our overall success in international markets depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. Furthermore, the occurrence of any of the foregoing factors may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may experience fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely impact our results of operations. Our international sales are generally denominated in foreign currencies, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Our primary exposures are to fluctuations in exchange rates for the U.S. dollar versus the Euro and, to a lesser extent, the Australian dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan, Indian rupee, Korean won and Singapore dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenues and could require us to reduce our prices to remain competitive in foreign markets, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. An unfavorable change in the exchange rate of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar would result in lower revenues when translated into U.S. dollars, although operating expenditures would be lower as well. Historically, the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our revenues and operating expenses has not been material, although it may be in the future. In recent fiscal years, we have selectively hedged our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the balance sheet. In the future, we may enter into additional foreign currency-based hedging contracts to reduce our exposure to significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates on the balance sheet, although there can be no assurances that we will do so. However, as our international operations grow, or if dramatic fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates continue or increase or if our hedging strategies become ineffective, the effect of changes in the foreign currency exchange rates could become material to revenue, operating expenses, and income. Our ability to sell our software applications is highly dependent on the quality of our services offerings, and our failure to offer high quality support and professional services would have a material adverse effect on our sales of software applications and results of operations. Our services include the assessment and design of solutions to meet our customers storage management requirements and the efficient installation and deployment of our software applications based on specified business objectives. Further, once our software applications are deployed, our customers depend on us to resolve issues relating to our software applications. A high level of service is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our software. If we or our partners do not effectively install or deploy our applications, or succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, it would adversely affect our ability to sell software products to existing customers and could harm our reputation with prospective customers. As a result, our failure to maintain high quality support and professional services would have a material adverse effect on our sales of software applications and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. Sales to U.S. and foreign federal, state, and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue, and we may in the future increase sales to government entities. However, government entities have recently announced reductions in, or experienced increased pressure to reduce spending. In particular, such measures have adversely affected European public sector transactions, and the recent U.S. debt issues and budget concerns may adversely impact future U.S. public sector transactions. Such budgetary constraints or shifts in spending priorities of government entities may adversely affect sales of our products and services to such entities. In addition, sales to government entities are subject to a number of risks. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully sell our products to such governmental entity. Government entities may require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements. Government contracts may require the maintenance of certain security clearances for facilities and employees which can entail administrative time and effort possibly resulting in additional costs and delays. In addition, government demand for our products may be more volatile as they are affected by public sector budgetary cycles, funding authorizations, and the potential for funding reductions or delays, making the time to close such transactions more difficult to predict. This risk is enhanced as the size of such sales to the government entities increases. If the use of our products expands to more sensitive, secure or mission critical uses by our government customers, we may be subject to increased scrutiny, potential reputational risk, or potential liability should our products fail to perform as expected or should we not comply with the terms of our government contracts or government contracting requirements. Most of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through providers that sell our products. Government entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our providers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. Governments routinely audit and investigate government contractors, and we may be subject to such audits and investigations. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, including any misuse of confidential or classified information by our employees, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions. If we are unable to manage our growth, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, the quality of our products and services and our ability to retain key personnel. We have experienced periods of growth in recent years. Our revenues increased 22% for fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 and also increased 29% for fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. The number of our customers increased significantly during these periods. Our growth has placed increased demands on our management and other resources and will continue to do so in the future. We may not be able to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, manage our expanding operations effectively or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. Managing our growth effectively will involve, among other things: continuing to retain, motivate and manage our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; continuing to provide a high level of services to an increasing number of customers; maintaining the quality of product and services offerings while controlling our expenses; developing new sales channels that broaden the distribution of our software applications and services; and developing, implementing and improving our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls on a timely basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain or increase revenues and profitability, the quality of our data and information management software, the 27 Table of Contents quality of our services offerings and our ability to retain key personnel. These factors could adversely affect our reputation in the market and our ability to generate future sales from new or existing customers. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding the shipment of software products, negatively affecting our service offerings, preventing the processing of transactions and reporting of financial results. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could also result in the unintentional disclosure of customer or our information as well as damage our reputation. While management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated network security, internal control measures and developed certain disaster recovery plans, there can be no assurance that a system failure, network disruption or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Protection of our intellectual property is limited, and any misuse of our intellectual property by others could materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our success depends significantly upon proprietary technology in our software, documentation and other written materials. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of: patents; copyright and trademark laws; trade secrets; confidentiality procedures; and contractual provisions. These methods afford only limited protection. Despite this limited protection, any issued patent may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties, and the patents of others may seriously impede our ability to conduct our business. Further, our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents, and any patents issued to us may not be timely or broad enough to protect our proprietary rights. We may also develop proprietary products or technologies that cannot be protected under patent law. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy could be compromised by outside parties, or by our employees, which would cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our software applications or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our software applications is difficult, and we expect software piracy to continue to be a persistent problem. In licensing our software applications, we typically rely on shrink wrap or click wrap licenses that are not signed by licensees. We may have difficulty enforcing these licenses in some jurisdictions. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our attempts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our software applications or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, from time to time we are participants or members of various industry standard-setting organizations or other industry technical organizations. Our participation or membership in such organizations may, in some circumstances, require us to 28 Table of Contents enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties regarding our intellectual property under terms established by those organizations, which we may not find favorable. In addition, many of our agreements with our customers and partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property infringement claims against them, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims, and may require that we pay significant damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Furthermore, such customers and partners may discontinue the use of our products, services, and technologies, as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenues and adversely impact our business. Claims that we misuse the intellectual property of others could subject us to significant liability and disrupt our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Due to the nature of our business, we may become subject to material claims of infringement by competitors and other third parties with respect to current or future software applications, trademarks or other proprietary rights. We expect that software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of software applications and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of software applications in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties, which may not be available on terms that we deem acceptable, if at all. In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these claims could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. This liability, or our inability to use any of this third-party software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our business and subjects us to possible litigation. Some of the products or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us may incorporate so-called open source software, and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, the Common Public License, Apache-style licenses, Berkley Software Distribution or BSD-style licenses and other open source licenses. We monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, but these efforts may not be successful. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is somewhat unknown and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and technologies. The use of such open source software may ultimately subject some of our products to unintended conditions, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and ability to commercialize our products or technologies. Some of these open source licenses may subject us to certain conditions, including requirements that we offer our products that use the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If an author or other third-party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses 29 Table of Contents defending against such allegations. If our defenses were not successful, we could be enjoined from the distribution of our products that contained the open source software and required to make the source code for the open source software available to others, to grant third parties certain rights of further use of our software or to remove the open source software from our products, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our products. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, under some open source licenses we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. If an author or other third-party that distributes open source software were to obtain a judgment against us based on allegations that we had not complied with the terms of any such open source licenses, we could also be subject to liability for copyright infringement damages and breach of contract for our past distribution of such open source software. Our effective tax rate is difficult to project, and changes in such tax rate or adverse results of tax examinations could adversely affect our operating results. We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent that our geographical mix of income becomes more weighted toward jurisdictions with higher tax rates and would be favorably affected to the extent the relative geographic mix shifts to lower tax jurisdictions. Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict. The process of determining our anticipated tax liabilities involves many calculations and estimates that are inherently complex and make the ultimate tax obligation determination uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. These estimates involve complex issues, require extended periods of time to resolve, and require us to make judgments, such as anticipating the outcomes of audits with tax authorities and the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns. Furthermore, our overall effective income tax rate and tax expenses may be affected by various factors in our business, including changes in our legal structure, changes in the geographic mix of income and expenses, changes in tax laws and applicable accounting pronouncements and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual profits before income tax. For example, our effective tax rate has benefited from an existing U.S. research and development tax credit which extends through the end of the 2013 calendar year. If this tax credit is not renewed in the future, we would expect our effective tax rate to increase. We also determine the need to record deferred tax liabilities and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance is established to the extent recovery of deferred tax assets is not likely based on our estimation of future taxable income and other factors in each jurisdiction. As of March 31, 2013, we had net deferred tax assets of approximately $40.5 million, which were primarily related to federal and state research tax credit carryforwards, stock-based compensation and foreign net operating loss carryforwards. Consequently, our cash tax rate will be lower than our effective tax rate though fiscal 2014 and into fiscal 2015. However, we expect our cash taxes to continue to increase as our cash tax rate approaches our effective tax rate. Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected if the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail. Our cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. We maintain the cash and cash equivalents with major financial institutions. Deposits with these banks exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. While we monitor daily the cash balances in the operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date, we have 30 Table of Contents experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets. We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may be unable to obtain additional financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to acquire complementary businesses, technologies, products or services. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, you may experience significant dilution of your ownership interest, and the newly-issued securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our software and services through acquisitions in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our software and services offerings, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We have no plans, nor are we currently considering any proposals or arrangements, written or otherwise, to acquire a business, technology, product or service. We may become involved in litigation that may have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, we may become involved in various legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to the ordinary course of our business, including patent, commercial, product liability, employment, class action, whistleblower and other litigation and claims, and governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert managements attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, because litigation is inherently unpredictable, there can be no assurance that the results of any of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. During fiscal 2013, we closed on a purchase of land located in Tinton Falls, New Jersey for our future corporate campus headquarters to support the long-term growth of our business. We have limited experience in the ownership and management of real property. In addition, we are subject to the risks of owning real property including the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning and other legal or regulatory requirements. Furthermore, we are subject to adverse changes in the value of this property due to interest rate changes, changes in the market in which the property is located or other factors. Our estimate for the planned construction of the campus headquarters may increase due to factors outside of our control and could increase the amount of cash committed to this project. Also, if we decide to sell our real property in the future and are not able to recover all capitalized costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We are currently planning and designing information systems enhancements and problems with the design or implementation of these enhancements could interfere with our business and operations. We are currently in the process of significantly enhancing our information systems, including planning and designing a new enterprise resource planning system. The implementation of significant enhancements to information systems is frequently disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise. Any disruptions relating to our systems enhancements, particularly any disruptions impacting our operations during the design or implementation periods, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, bill and 31 Table of Contents track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise run our business. If we are unable to successfully plan, design or implement these information systems enhancements, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be highly volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; changes in financial estimates, treatment of our tax assets or liabilities or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business or our competitors; the publics response to our press releases, rumors, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance or interpretations or principles; sales of common stock by our directors, officers and significant stockholders; announcements of technological innovations or enhanced or new products by us or our competitors; our failure to achieve operating results consistent with securities analysts projections; the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; broad market and industry factors; and other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events. The market prices of software companies have been extremely volatile. Stock prices of many software companies have often fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of management from our business. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such future sales may occur, may cause our stock price to decline and impair our ability to obtain capital through future stock offerings. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are available for sale into the public market. The occurrence of such sales, or the perception that such sales could occur, could materially and adversely affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Certain provisions in our charter documents and agreements and Delaware law, as well as our stockholder rights plan, may inhibit potential acquisition bids for CommVault and prevent changes in our management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in management that our stockholders might deem advantageous. Specific provisions in our certificate of incorporation include: our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the Board of Directors may determine, without stockholder approval; 32 Table of Contents a classified board in which only a third of the total board members will be elected at each annual stockholder meeting; advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and limitations on convening stockholder meetings. In addition to the provision described above, on November 13, 2008, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholders rights plan and declared a dividend distribution of one Right for each outstanding share of our common stock to shareholders of record on November 24, 2008. Each Right, when exercisable, entitles the registered holder to purchase from us one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, at a purchase price of $80 per one one-thousandth of a share, subject to adjustment. The Rights may discourage a third-party from making an unsolicited proposal to acquire us, as exercise of the Rights would cause substantial dilution to such third-party attempting to acquire us. As a result of the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our stockholder rights plan, the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock may be limited. Also, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. Further, certain of our employment agreements and incentive plans provide for vesting of stock options and/or payments to be made to the employees thereunder if their employment is terminated in connection with a change of control, which could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. We do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Although we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis, and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX 404), and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement SOX 404, we are required to furnish a report in our Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The reports assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Managements assessment of internal control over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and some of our judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. Although we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate or may not operate effectively. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if our auditors cannot timely attest, there may be a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to regulatory sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. 33 Table of Contents During the past few years, our organizational structure has increased in complexity due to compliance with tax regulations and tax accounting requirements and other regulatory and compliance requirements, including compliance with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act of 2010 (the UK Bribery Act). Further, we have expanded our presence in the Asia-Pacific region, where business practices can differ from those in other regions of the world and can create internal control risks. We provide business practices training to our employees worldwide. Overall, the combination of increased structural complexity and the ever-increasing regulatory complexity make it more critical for us to attract and retain qualified and technically competent employees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our principal administrative, sales, marketing, customer support and research and development facility is located at our headquarters in Oceanport, New Jersey. We currently occupy approximately 182,000 square feet of office space in the Oceanport facility under the terms of an operating lease expiring in July 2015. We believe that our current facility is adequate to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months. We believe that suitable additional facilities will be available as needed on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, we have offices in the United States in Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Washington; and outside the United States in Kanata, Ontario; Toronto, Ontario; Calgary, Alberta; Montreal, Quebec; Vancouver, British Columbia; Reading, United Kingdom; Oberhausen, Germany; Utrecht, Netherlands; Milan, Italy; Stockholm, Sweden; Paris, France; Madrid, Spain; Dubai, United Arab Emirates; Moscow, Russia; Johannesburg, South Africa; Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; Tel Aviv, Israel; Beijing, China; Shanghai, China; Guangzhou, China; Chengdu, China; Hong Kong; Sydney, Australia; Melbourne, Australia; Canberra, Australia; Auckland, New Zealand; Tokyo, Japan; Singapore; Mexico City, Mexico; Kuala Lumpar, Malaysia; Bangkok, Thailand; Sao Paulo, Brazil; Seoul, South Korea; Mumbai, India; New Delhi, India; Bangalore, India; and Hyderabad, India. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are subject to claims in legal proceedings arising in the normal course of our business. We do not believe that we are currently party to any pending legal action that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable 34 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for our Common Stock Our common stock is listed and traded on The NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol CVLT. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and the low closing sales prices of our common stock, as reported on The NASDAQ Global Market. Common Stock 2013 2012 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 54.43 $ 43.70 $ 44.45 $ 36.47 Second Quarter $ 59.31 $ 39.20 $ 47.06 $ 31.22 Third Quarter $ 72.42 $ 53.41 $ 50.54 $ 34.66 Fourth Quarter $ 84.20 $ 67.51 $ 54.71 $ 42.93 On April 29, 2013, the last reported sale price of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ Global Market was $73.96 per share. Stockholders As of April 29, 2013, there were approximately 63 holders of our common stock. The number of record holders does not represent the actual number of beneficial owners of shares of our common stock because shares are frequently held in street name by securities dealers and others for the benefit of individual owners who have the right to vote their shares. Dividend Policy We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock, and we intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the growth of our business. We therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our future decisions concerning the payment of dividends on our common stock will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition and capital expenditure plans, as well as any other factors that the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may consider relevant. 35 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The graph set forth below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock between March 31, 2008 and March 28, 2013, with the cumulative total return of (i) The NASDAQ Computer Index and (ii) The NASDAQ Composite Index, over the same period. This graph assumes the investment of $100,000 on March 31, 2008 in our common stock, The NASDAQ Composite Index and The NASDAQ Computer Index, and assumes the reinvestment of dividends, if any. The graph assumes the initial value of our common stock on March 31, 2008 was the closing sales price of $12.40 per share. The comparisons shown in the graph below are based upon historical data. The stock price performance shown in the graph below is not necessarily indicative of, nor is it intended to forecast, the future performance of our common stock. Information used in the graph was obtained from NASDAQ, a source we believe to be reliable, but we are not responsible for any errors or omissions in such information. The performance graph shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of CommVault under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. 3/31/08 3/31/09 3/31/10 3/31/11 3/30/12 3/28/13 CommVault 100.0 88.5 172.2 321.6 400.3 661.1 NASDAQ Composite Index 100.0 67.1 105.2 122.0 135.6 143.4 NASDAQ Computer Index 100.0 70.0 116.9 139.4 166.3 154.8 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities There were no repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended March 31, 2013. As of March 31, 2013, we have repurchased $117.2 million of common stock (5.7 million shares) out of the $220.0 million in total that is authorized under our stock repurchase program. As a result, we may repurchase an additional $102.8 million of our common stock under the current program through March 31, 2014. 36 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and related notes, Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected statements of operations and the selected balance sheet data are derived from our audited financial statements. The historical results presented below are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in any future period. Year Ended March 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (In thousands, except per share data) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Software $ 251,508 $ 201,800 $ 149,798 $ 134,500 $ 121,685 Services 244,342 204,839 164,978 136,525 112,834 Total revenues 495,850 406,639 314,776 271,025 234,519 Cost of revenues: Software 2,863 2,747 2,369 3,017 2,469 Services 62,089 50,660 38,646 32,628 28,177 Total cost of revenues 64,952 53,407 41,015 35,645 30,646 Gross margin 430,898 353,232 273,761 235,380 203,873 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 247,696 219,025 163,054 136,773 122,957 Research and development 47,356 39,936 36,954 33,421 30,669 General and administrative 50,119 40,619 34,207 29,823 26,159 Depreciation and amortization 4,832 4,353 3,775 3,514 3,582 Income from operations 80,895 49,299 35,771 31,849 20,506 Interest expense (57 ) (106 ) (106 ) (175 ) Interest income 1,059 750 650 384 1,639 Income before income taxes 81,954 49,992 36,315 32,127 21,970 Income tax expense 28,745 18,052 15,311 13,722 9,642 Net income $ 53,209 $ 31,940 $ 21,004 $ 18,405 $ 12,328 Net income per common share: Basic $ 1.17 $ 0.72 $ 0.49 $ 0.44 $ 0.29 Diluted $ 1.10 $ 0.68 $ 0.45 $ 0.41 $ 0.28 Weighted average shares used in computing per share amounts: Basic 45,463 44,089 43,283 42,133 41,983 Diluted 48,330 47,201 46,301 45,022 44,013 As of March 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (In thousands) Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 433,964 $ 297,088 $ 217,170 $ 169,518 $ 105,205 Short-term investments 1,948 3,146 1,150 5,043 Working capital 343,094 222,301 179,380 143,185 84,590 Total assets 604,854 432,688 342,499 286,015 206,987 Total stockholders equity 354,017 229,984 188,130 158,300 111,289 37 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The statements in this discussion regarding our expectations of our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview We are a leading provider of data and information management software applications and related services in terms of product breadth and functionality and market penetration. We develop, market and sell a unified suite of data and information management software applications under the Simpana brand. Simpana software is built from the ground up on a single platform and unified code base for integrated data and information management. The Simpana platform contains licensable modules that work together seamlessly, sharing a single code and common function set to deliver Backup and Recovery, Archive, Replication, Search and Analytic capabilities across physical, virtual and cloud environments. With a single platform approach, Simpana software is specifically designed to protect, manage and access data throughout its lifecycle in less time, at lower cost and with fewer resources than alternative solutions. Our product features and capabilities enable our customers to deploy solutions for data protection, business continuance, corporate compliance and centralized management and reporting. We also provide our customers with a broad range of professional services that are delivered by our worldwide support and field operations. As of March 31, 2013, we had licensed our software applications to approximately 18,200 registered customers. History and Background In early 2000, we launched CommVault Galaxy for backup and recovery, a storage industry award winner. In the years since, CommVault has forged numerous alliances with top software application and hardware vendors, such as Dell, HP, Hitachi Data Systems, Microsoft, Network Appliance, Fujitsu, Novell and Oracle, to enhance capabilities and to create a premiere suite of data and information management solutions. In 2002, we launched our single-platform technology that provides the foundation of our information management approach to storing, managing, and accessing data. Our Simpana software suite is one product that contains the following licensable modules, all built on a single unified code base and platform to protect, manage and access data and information: Backup and Recovery, Archive, Replication, Search, and Analyze. In addition to Backup and Recovery, the subsequent release of our other software application modules has substantially increased our addressable market. Each application module can be used individually or in combination with other application modules from our single platform suite. In January 2009, CommVault Simpana 8.0 (Simpana 8) was made available for public release. Simpana 8 included advances in recovery management, data reduction, virtual server protection and content organization. In addition, we believe that Simpana 8 met a broad spectrum of customers discovery and recovery management requirements and eliminated the need for a myriad of point level products. In August 2010, our CommVault Simpana 9.0 software suite (Simpana 9) was made available for public release. We believe that Simpana 9, which built on and significantly expanded Simpana 8, allows customers to deploy a modern data management solution to achieve gains in efficiency, cost optimization and scale. We believe that Simpana 9 solves real-world IT challenges with major technology advancements, including increased virtualization scalability and performance, integrated source and target data deduplication, automatic and transparent integration with hardware array-based snapshots, as well as new tools that ease migration to our next generation Simpana 9 platform. 38 Table of Contents In January 2012, we released enhancements to our existing Simpana 9 software suite. These enhancements included new capabilities that converges backup, archive and reporting processes; additional SnapProtect technology that delivers hardware snapshot integration; enhancements to virtual server protection; new innovations to protect data on laptops and desktops with embedded source deduplication for optimized efficiency; and new integration with Microsoft SharePoint. In February 2013, our CommVault Simpana 10.0 software suite (Simpana 10) was made available for public release. We believe Simpana 10 extends our data protection and archiving leadership to deliver secure, self-service access from mobile devices, speed the adoption of cloud computing and extract value from Big Data. Simpana 10 includes major technology advancements such as Enhanced IntelliSnap snapshot management; Simpana OnePass with Exchange; tighter integration with Microsoft Hyper-V, VMware vSphere 5.1 and vCloud Director 5.1; workflow automation; fourth-generation parallel deduplication; and customizable web-based reporting, dashboards and cloud-based analytics. Our Simpana 10 architecture efficiently stores all protected data in a virtual repository, called ContentStore, and opens access to simplify the way end users search, analyze and repurpose data across an enterprise. Our software licenses typically provide for a perpetual right to use our software and are sold on a capacity basis, on a per-copy basis or as site licenses. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, approximately 69% of software license revenue was sold on a capacity basis. Capacity based software licenses provide our customers with unlimited licenses of specified software products based on a defined level of terabytes of data under management. As a result, when we sell our platform through a capacity license, many of the various Simpana functionalities are bundled into one capacity based price. We anticipate that capacity based licenses will continue to account for the majority of our software license revenue for the foreseeable future. The industry in which we currently operate continues to go through accelerating changes as the result of compounding data growth and the introduction of new technologies. We are continuing to pursue an aggressive product development program in both data and information management solutions. Our data management solutions include not only traditional backup, but also new innovations in de-duplication, data movement, virtualization, snap-based backups and enterprise reporting. Our information management innovations are primarily in the areas of archiving, eDiscovery, records management, governance and compliance. We remain focused on both the data and information management trends in the marketplace and, in fact, a material portion of our existing research and development expenses are utilized toward the development of such new technologies discussed above. While we are confident in our ability to meet these changing industry demands with our Simpana suite and potential future releases, the development, release and timing of any features or functionality remain at our sole discretion and our solutions or other technologies may not be widely adopted. The rapid growth of data, and the need to securely protect, manage and access this data is driving substantial opportunities for managed service providers (MSPs) to help organizations deploy and manage solutions that deliver data management capabilities. The result is reduced long-term management costs with increased offerings to customers, which we believe represents a long-term industry trend in the way that services are offered. Given the nature of the industry in which we operate, our software applications are subject to obsolescence. As noted above, we continually develop and introduce updates to our existing software applications in order to keep pace with evolving industry technologies. In addition, we must address evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements and competitive software applications that may render our existing software applications obsolete. For each of our software applications, we provide full support for the current generally available release and one prior release. When we declare a product release obsolete, a customer notice is delivered twelve months prior to the effective date of obsolescence announcing continuation of full product support for the first six months. We provide an additional six months of extended assistance support in which we only provide existing workarounds or fixes that do not require additional development activity. We do not have existing plans to make any of our software products permanently obsolete. 39 Table of Contents Sources of Revenues We derive a significant portion of our total revenues from sales of licenses of our software applications. We do not customize our software for a specific end-user customer. We sell our software applications to end-user customers both directly through our sales force and indirectly through our global network of value-added reseller partners, systems integrators, corporate resellers and original equipment manufacturers. Our software revenue was 51% of our total revenues for fiscal 2013, 50% for fiscal 2012 and 48% for fiscal 2011. In recent fiscal years, we have generated approximately two-thirds of our software revenue from our existing customer base and approximately one-third of our software revenue from new customers. In addition, our total software revenue in any particular period is, to a certain extent, dependent upon our ability to generate revenues from large customer software deals, which we refer to as enterprise software transactions. We expect the number of enterprise software transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million) and resulting software revenue to increase throughout fiscal 2014, although the size and timing of any particular software transaction is more difficult to forecast. Such software transactions represented approximately 57% of our software revenue in fiscal 2013, approximately 52% of our software revenue in fiscal 2012 and approximately 48% of our software revenue in fiscal 2011. Software revenue generated through indirect distribution channels was 89% of total software revenue in fiscal 2013, 84% in fiscal 2012 and 84% in fiscal 2011. Software revenue generated through direct distribution channels was 11% of total software revenue in fiscal 2013, 16% in fiscal 2012 and 16% in fiscal 2011. The dollar value of software revenue generated through indirect distribution channels increased approximately $53.2 million, or 31%, in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. The dollar value of software revenue generated through direct distribution decreased $3.5 million, or 11%, in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. The increase in the dollar value of software revenue growth generated through our indirect distribution channels compared to our direct sales force in fiscal 2013 is primarily the result of an increase in software revenue from our international operations, which is almost exclusively transacted through indirect distribution. The decrease in the dollar value of the software revenue generated through our direct sales channel is due to a lower value of direct enterprise transactions in the United States. Deals initiated by our direct sales force are sometimes transacted through indirect channels based on end-user customer requirements, which are not always in our control and can cause this overall percentage split to vary from fiscal year to fiscal year. As such, there may be fluctuations in the dollars and percentage of software revenue generated through our direct distribution channels from time to time. We believe that the growth of our software revenue, derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force, are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We will continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term. The failure of our indirect distribution channels or our direct sales force to effectively sell our software applications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We have a worldwide reseller and an original equipment agreement with Dell. Our reseller agreement with Dell provides them the right to market, resell and distribute certain of our products to their customers. Our original equipment manufacturer agreement with Dell is discussed more fully below. Sales through our agreements with Dell accounted for 20% of our total revenues for fiscal 2013, 22% of our total revenues for fiscal 2012 and 23% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011. In recent fiscal quarters, we have begun to shift most of our small and medium business segment transactions to non-Dell distribution partners as Dell is now focused on this segment of the market with their own intellectual property. As a result, the majority of the revenue that is still transacted through Dell comes from add-on purchases from our existing install base and from new enterprise software transactions where our sales force is directly involved. We have also recently begun to take proactive steps to broaden our distribution related to enterprise software transactions. Over time, we believe it is likely that these actions will result in a decline in the percentage of our total revenues transacted through Dell. Due to the timing of enterprise software transactions that are currently in our sales and marketing pipeline, there will likely be some fluctuations in the amount of revenue transacted through Dell from quarter to quarter. 40 Table of Contents In May 2011, we entered into a global OEM agreement with NetApp under which NetApp will integrate elements of our Simpana software suite with NetApp SnapShot and replication technology, under the NetApp SnapProtect brand. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, we did not recognize a material amount of revenue under our OEM agreement with NetApp. Overall, we have original equipment manufacturer agreements primarily with Dell, Hitachi Data Systems and NetApp for them to market, sell and support our software applications and services on a stand-alone basis and/or incorporate our software applications into their own hardware products. Dell, Hitachi Data Systems and NetApp have no obligation to recommend or offer our software applications exclusively or at all, and they have no minimum sales requirements and can terminate our relationship at any time. A material portion of our software revenue is sometimes generated through our original equipment manufacturer agreements. Sales through our original equipment manufacturer agreements accounted for 15% of our total revenues for fiscal 2013, 12% of our total revenues for fiscal 2012 and 10% of our total revenues for fiscal 2011. We also have non-exclusive distribution agreements covering our North American commercial markets and our U.S. Federal Government market with Arrow Enterprise Computing Solutions, Inc. (Arrow), a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc., and Avnet Technology Solutions (Avnet), a subsidiary of Avnet, Inc. Pursuant to these distribution agreements, these distributors primary role is to enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our products and services by managing our reseller partners and leveraging their own industry experience. We generated approximately 29% of our total revenues through Arrow in fiscal 2013, approximately 26% of our total revenues in fiscal 2012 and approximately 25% of our total revenues in fiscal 2011. Avnets total revenue contribution was not material in fiscal 2013, 2012 or 2011. If Arrow or Avnet were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products or if our agreement with Arrow or Avnet was terminated, and if we were unable to take back the management of our reseller channel or find another North American distributor to replace Arrow or Avnet, then it could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues. We also derive a significant portion of our total revenues from services revenue. Our services revenue is made up of fees from the delivery of customer support and other professional services, which are typically sold in connection with the sale of our software applications. Customer support agreements provide technical support and unspecified software updates on a when-and-if-available basis for an annual fee based on licenses purchased and the level of service subscribed. Other professional services include consulting, assessment and design services, implementation and post-deployment services and training, all of which to date have predominantly been sold in connection with the sale of software applications. Our services revenue was 49% of our total revenues for fiscal 2013, 50% for fiscal 2012 and 52% for fiscal 2011. The gross margin of our services revenue was 74.6% for fiscal 2013, 75.3% for fiscal 2012 and 76.6% for fiscal 2011. The decrease in the gross margin of our services revenue in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was primarily due to higher costs of services associated with the expansion of our worldwide customer support operations. Overall, our services revenue has lower gross margins than our software revenue. The gross margin of our software revenue was 98.9% for fiscal 2013, 98.6% for fiscal 2012 and 98.4% for fiscal 2011. An increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by services revenue may adversely affect our overall gross margins. Description of Costs and Expenses Our cost of revenues is as follows: Cost of Software Revenue , consists primarily of third-party royalties and other costs such as media, manuals, translation and distribution costs; and Cost of Services Revenue , consists primarily of salary and employee benefit costs in providing customer support and other professional services. 41 Table of Contents Our operating expenses are as follows: Sales and Marketing , consists primarily of salaries, commissions, employee benefits, stock-based compensation and other direct and indirect business expenses, including travel and related expenses, sales promotion expenses, public relations expenses and costs for marketing materials and other marketing events (such as trade shows and advertising); Research and Development , which is primarily the expense of developing new software applications and modifying existing software applications, consists principally of salaries, stock-based compensation and benefits for research and development personnel and related expenses; contract labor expense and consulting fees as well as other expenses associated with the design, certification and testing of our software applications; and legal costs associated with the patent registration of such software applications; General and Administrative , consists primarily of salaries, stock-based compensation and benefits for our executive, accounting, human resources, legal, information systems and other administrative personnel. Also included in this category are other general corporate expenses, such as outside legal and accounting services, compliance costs and insurance; and Depreciation and Amortization , consists of depreciation expense primarily for computer equipment we use for information services and in our development and test labs. We anticipate that each of the above categories of operating expenses will increase in dollar amounts, but will decline as a percentage of total revenues in the long-term. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations Sales outside the United States were approximately 42% of our total revenue for fiscal 2013, 39% for fiscal 2012 and 39% for fiscal 2011. The income statements of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions generally results in increased revenue, operating expenses and income from operations for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, our revenue, operating expenses and net income will generally decrease for our non-U.S. operations if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the corresponding fiscal 2012 period, our total revenues, cost of revenues and operating expenses from non-U.S. operations for fiscal 2013 would have been higher by approximately $5.1 million, $0.6 million and $3.2 million, respectively. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the corresponding fiscal 2011 period, our total revenues, cost of revenues and operating expenses from non-U.S. operations for fiscal 2012 would have been lower by approximately $6.4 million, $1.0 million and $3.5 million, respectively. In addition, we are exposed to risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from cash balances, accounts receivables and intercompany accounts denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to the resulting transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of general and administrative expenses. We recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of $0.3 million, $0.2 million, and $0.6 million in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies In presenting our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported therein. Some of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they 42 Table of Contents pertain to future events. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable and appropriate. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. The following is a description of our accounting policies that we believe require subjective and complex judgments, which could potentially have a material effect on our reported financial condition or results of operations. Revenue Recognition Our revenue recognition policy is based on complex rules that require us to make significant judgments and estimates. In applying our revenue recognition policy, we must determine which portions of our revenue are recognized currently (generally software revenue) and which portions must be deferred and recognized in future periods (generally services revenue). We analyze various factors including, but not limited to, the sales of undelivered services when sold on a stand-alone basis, our pricing policies, the credit-worthiness of our customers and resellers, accounts receivable aging data and contractual terms and conditions in helping us to make such judgments about revenue recognition. Changes in judgment on any of these factors could materially impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized in a given period. Currently, we derive revenues from two primary sources: software licenses and services. Services include customer support, consulting, assessment and design services, installation services and training. A typical sales arrangement includes both of these sources. For sales arrangements involving multiple elements, we recognize revenue using the residual method. Under the residual method, we allocate and defer revenue for the undelivered elements based on fair value and recognize the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount deferred for the undelivered elements as revenue. The determination of fair value of the undelivered elements in multiple-element arrangements is based on the price charged when such elements are sold separately, which is commonly referred to as vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE). Our software licenses typically provide for a perpetual right to use our software and are sold on a per-copy basis, on a capacity basis or as site licenses. Software licenses sold on a capacity basis provide the customer with unlimited licenses of specified software products based on a defined level of terabytes of data under management. Site licenses give the customer the additional right to deploy the software on a limited basis during a specified term. We recognize software revenue through direct sales channels upon receipt of a purchase order or other persuasive evidence and when the other three basic revenue recognition criteria are met as described in the revenue recognition section in Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We recognize software revenue through all indirect sales channels on a sell-through model. A sell-through model requires that we recognize revenue when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met and these channels complete the sale of our software products to the end-user. Revenue from software licenses sold through an original equipment manufacturer partner is recognized upon the receipt of a royalty report or purchase order from that original equipment manufacturer partner. Services revenue includes revenue from customer support and other professional services. Customer support includes software updates on a when-and-if-available basis, telephone support, integrated web-based support and bug fixes or patches. Customer support revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the customer support agreement, which is typically one year. To determine the price for the customer support element when sold separately, we primarily use historical renewal rates. Historical renewal rates are supported by a rolling 12-month VSOE analysis in which we segregate our customer support renewal contracts into different classes based on specific criteria including, but not limited to, dollar amount of software purchased, level of customer support being provided and distribution channel. The purpose of such an analysis is to determine if the customer support element that is deferred at the time of a software sale is consistent with how it is sold on a stand-alone renewal basis. 43 Table of Contents Our other professional services include consulting; implementation and post deployment services; and education services. Other professional services provided by us are not mandatory and can also be performed by the customer or a third-party. In addition to a signed purchase order, our consulting, assessment and design services and installation services are, in some cases, evidenced by a Statement of Work, which defines the specific scope of the services to be performed when sold and performed on a stand-alone basis or included in multiple-element sales arrangements. Revenues from consulting, assessment and design services and installation services are based upon a daily, weekly or monthly rate and are recognized when the services are completed. Training includes courses taught by our instructors or third-party contractors either at one of our facilities or at the customers site. Training fees are recognized as revenue after the training course has been provided. Based on our analysis of such other professional services transactions sold on a stand-alone basis, we have concluded we have established VSOE for such other professional services when sold in connection with a multiple-element sales arrangement. In summary, we have analyzed all of the undelivered elements included in our multiple-element sales arrangements and determined that we have VSOE of fair value to allocate revenues to services. Our analysis of the undelivered elements has provided us with results that are consistent with the estimates and assumptions used to determine the timing and amount of revenue recognized in our multiple-element sales arrangements. Accordingly, assuming all basic revenue recognition criteria are met, software revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software license using the residual method. We are not likely to materially change our pricing and discounting practices in the future. Our sales arrangements generally do not include acceptance clauses. However, if an arrangement does include an acceptance clause, we defer the revenue for such an arrangement and recognize it upon acceptance. Acceptance occurs upon the earliest of receipt of a written customer acceptance, waiver of customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period. Stock-Based Compensation As of March 31, 2013, we maintain two stock incentive plans, which are described more fully in Note 7 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . We account for our stock incentive plans based on the grant date fair value recognition provisions in accordance with ASC 718. We estimated the fair value of stock options granted using the Black-Scholes formula. The fair value of restricted stock units awarded is determined based on the number of shares granted and the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. Compensation for all share-based payment awards is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. Forfeitures are estimated based on a historical analysis of our actual stock award forfeitures. We anticipate that future grants under our stock incentive plans will include both non-qualified stock options and restricted stock units. The average expected life for fiscal 2012 was determined according to the simplified method, which is the mid-point between the vesting date and the end of the contractual term. During fiscal 2013, we began incorporating our historical data into the expected term calculation for stock options granted. We are now able to demonstrate significant stock option exercise activity for options granted subsequent to our initial public offering to provide a reasonable basis for incorporating historical data into our expected term of future stock option grants. As a result, for twelve months ended March 31, 2013, our calculation of expected term includes a combination of actual exercise data and an assumption on when the remaining outstanding options with similar characteristics will be exercised based on our historical data. In determining expected life, we separate employees into groups that have historically exhibited similar behavior with regard to option exercises. Expected volatility through September 30, 2012 was calculated based on a blended approach that included the historical volatility of a peer group, the implied volatility of the our traded options with a remaining maturity greater than six months and the historical realized volatility of our common stock. Effective October 1, 2012, we excluded the historical volatility of a peer group in our expected volatility calculation due to the fact that our 44 Table of Contents common stock has been publicly traded for a period that approximates our weighted average expected term. As a result, expected volatility subsequent to October 1, 2012 was calculated based on a blended approach that included the implied volatility of our traded options with a remaining maturity greater than six months and the historical realized volatility of our common stock. The risk-free interest rate is determined by reference to U.S. Treasury yield curve rates with a remaining term that is approximately the expected life assumed at the date of grant. Forfeitures are estimated based on our historical analysis of actual stock option forfeitures. The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: Year Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Dividend yield None None Expected volatility 45% - 50% 42% - 47% Weighted average expected volatility 47% 45% Risk-free interest rates 0.60% - 1.40% 1.06% - 2.56% Weighted average expected life (in years) 6.2 6.2 The weighted average fair value of stock options granted was $27.28 per option during the year ended March 31, 2013 and $18.77 per option during the year ended March 31, 2012. In addition, the weighted average fair value of restricted stock units awarded was $57.01 per share during the year ended March 31, 2013 and $42.07 per share during the year ended March 31, 2012. As of March 31, 2013, there was approximately $93.3 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to non-vested stock option and restricted stock unit awards that is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.70 years. The intrinsic value of the options outstanding as of March 31, 2013 was $345.6 million, of which $251.7 million related to vested options and $93.9 million related to unvested options. We anticipate that future grants under our stock incentive plans will include both non-qualified stock options and restricted stock units. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure, including assessing the risks associated with tax audits, and assessing temporary differences resulting from different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities. As of March 31, 2013, we had net deferred tax assets of approximately $40.5 million, which were primarily related to federal and state research tax credit carryforwards, stock-based compensation and foreign net operating loss carryforwards. We assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and to the extent that we believe recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. As of March 31, 2013, we maintain a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets totaling $1.4 million. Substantially all of the valuation allowance we have recorded at March 31, 2013 is against New Jersey state research tax credits due to uncertainties related to the ability to utilize such state research tax credits before they expire. We based our valuation allowance on our estimates of taxable income by legal entity and the period over which our state research tax credits will be recoverable. 45 Table of Contents At March 31, 2013, we have state net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of approximately $2.1 million and also have NOL carryforwards for foreign tax purposes of approximately $6.0 million. At March 31, 2013, we have federal and state research tax credit (R&D) carryforwards of approximately $8.3 million and $4.8 million, respectively. The federal research tax credit carryforwards expire from 2022 through 2033, and the state research tax credit carryforwards expire from 2014 through 2028. At March 31, 2013, we have federal Alternative Minimum Tax credit carryforwards of $1.6 million. As of March 31, 2013, we had unrecognized tax benefits of $4.6 million, all of which, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate. In addition, we have accrued interest and penalties of $0.8 million related to the unrecognized tax benefits. Interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in income tax expense. Components of the reserve are classified as either current or long-term in the Consolidated Balance Sheet based on when we expect each of the items to be settled. Accordingly, our unrecognized tax benefits of $4.6 million and the related accrued interest and penalties of $0.8 million are included in Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We believe that it is reasonably possible that approximately $0.1 million of our currently remaining unrecognized tax benefits and approximately less than $0.1 million of related accrued interest and penalties may be realized by the end of fiscal 2014 as a result of the lapse of the statute of limitations. We conduct business globally and as a result, file income tax returns in the United States and in various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world, including such major jurisdictions as the United States, Australia, Canada, Germany, Netherlands and United Kingdom. Our U.S. Federal income tax return for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 is currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. In addition, our German subsidiarys income tax returns for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 through March 31, 2010 are currently under audit by the German tax authorities. The following table summarizes the tax years in the major tax jurisdictions that remain subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities as of March 31, 2013. The years subject to income tax examination in our foreign jurisdictions cover the maximum time period with respect to these jurisdictions. Due to NOL carryforwards, in some cases the tax years continue to remain subject to examination with respect to such NOLs. Tax Jurisdiction Years Subject to Income Tax Examination U.S. Federal 2002 - Present New Jersey 2002 - Present Foreign jurisdictions 2006 - Present Software Development Costs Research and development expenditures are charged to operations as incurred. Based on our software development process, technological feasibility is established upon completion of a working model, which also requires certification and extensive testing. Costs incurred by us between completion of the working model and the point at which the product is ready for general release are immaterial. 46 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth each of our sources of revenues and costs of revenues for the specified periods as a percentage of our total revenues for those periods (due to rounding numbers in column may not sum to totals): Year Ended March 31, 2013 2012 2011 Revenues: Software 51 % 50 % 48 % Services 49 % 50 % 52 % Total revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenues: Software 1 % 1 % 1 % Services 13 % 12 % 12 % Total cost of revenues 13 % 13 % 13 % Gross margin 87 % 87 % 87 % Fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 compared to fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 Revenues Total revenues increased $89.2 million, or 22%, from $406.6 million in fiscal 2012 to $495.9 million in fiscal 2013. Software Revenue. Software revenue increased $49.7 million, or 25%, from $201.8 million in fiscal 2012 to $251.5 million in fiscal 2013. Software revenue represented 51% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013 compared to 50% in fiscal 2012. The overall increase in software revenue was primarily driven by higher enterprise software transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million), which increased by $37.0 million, or 35% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. As a result, enterprise software transactions represented approximately 57% of our software revenue in fiscal 2013 and approximately 52% of our software revenue in fiscal 2012. The increase in enterprise software transactions is due to both a 23% increase in the number of transactions of this type and a 10% increase in the average dollar amount of such transactions. The average dollar amount of enterprise transactions was approximately $266,000 in fiscal 2013 and approximately $241,000 in fiscal 2012. Software revenue derived from transactions less than $0.1 million increased $12.7 million, or 13%, in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. Software revenue derived from our international operations in fiscal 2013 increased 40% compared to fiscal 2012. The growth in software revenue in our international locations is primarily due to increases in Canada, Europe and Australia as we expand our international operations. Software revenue derived from the United States in fiscal 2013 increased 14% compared to fiscal 2012. Software revenue derived from our indirect distribution channel (resellers and original equipment manufacturers) increased $53.2 million, or 31% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012, and software revenue through our direct sales force decreased $3.5 million, or 11% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. The increase in the dollar value of the software revenue through our indirect distribution channel is primarily due to the increase in software revenue generated in foreign locations, which is substantially sold through our channel partners. The decrease in the dollar value of the software revenue generated through our direct sales channel is due to a lower value of direct enterprise transactions in the United States. Software revenue that is derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We 47 Table of Contents will continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term as more fully discussed above in the Sources of Revenue section. Services Revenue. Services revenue increased $39.5 million, or 19%, from $204.8 million in fiscal 2012 to $244.3 million in fiscal 2013. Services revenue represented 49% of our total revenues in fiscal 2013 compared to 50% in fiscal 2012. The increase in services revenue is primarily due to a $34.1 million increase in revenue from customer support agreements as a result of software sales to new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base. Cost of Revenues Total cost of revenues increased $11.5 million, or 22%, from $53.4 million in fiscal 2012 to $65.0 million in fiscal 2013. Total cost of revenues represented 13% of our total revenues in both fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. Cost of Software Revenue. Cost of software revenue increased approximately $0.1 million, or 4%, from $2.7 million in fiscal 2012 to $2.9 million in fiscal 2013. Cost of software revenue represented 1% of our total software revenue in both fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. The increase in cost of software revenue is primarily due to higher third party royalty costs associated with our Simpana software suite in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012. Cost of Services Revenue. Cost of services revenue increased $11.4 million, or 23%, from $50.7 million in fiscal 2012 to $62.1 million in fiscal 2013. Cost of services revenue represented 25% of our services revenue in both fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. The increase in the dollar amount of cost of services revenue is primarily the result of higher employee compensation and travel expenses totaling approximately $6.1 million as well as a $2.8 million increase in third-party outsourcing costs to facilitate our delivery of services. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased $28.7 million, or 13%, from $219.0 million in fiscal 2012 to $247.7 million in fiscal 2013. The increase is primarily due to a $15.7 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses attributable to the expansion of our sales force from the prior year. The increase in sales and marketing expenses also includes a $4.6 million increase in advertising and marketing related expense as we continue to build brand awareness for our Simpana products and a $3.7 million increase in stock-based compensation expenses. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues decreased to 50% in fiscal 2013 compared to 54% in fiscal 2012, primarily due to cost containment in our field operations, as well as our sales segmentation strategy that we implemented at the beginning of fiscal 2013, which aligned our sales and marketing team as we penetrate the enterprize segment. Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased $7.4 million, or 19%, from $39.9 million in fiscal 2012 to $47.4 million in fiscal 2013. The increase is primarily due to higher salary and related expenses resulting from the expansion of our engineering group and higher fiscal 2013 bonus expense totaling approximately $4.8 million. The increase in research and development also includes a $0.7 million increase in stock-based compensation expenses and a $0.7 million increase in legal fees. Research and development expenses as a percentage of total revenues remained flat at 10% in both fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. Investing in research and development has been a priority for CommVault, and we anticipate continued spending related to the development of our data and information management software applications. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $9.5 million, or 23%, from $40.6 million in fiscal 2012 to $50.1 million in fiscal 2013. This increase is primarily due to a $3.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expenses, a $2.9 million increase in employee and related compensation due to higher headcount and higher fiscal 2013 bonus expense and a $1.2 million increase in settlement reserves. 48 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses in fiscal 2013 includes $0.3 million of net foreign currency transaction losses compared to $0.2 million of net foreign currency transaction losses recognized in general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2012. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues remained flat at 10% in both fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense increased $0.5 million, from $4.4 million in fiscal 2012 to $4.8 million in fiscal 2013. This reflects higher depreciation associated with increased capital expenditures primarily over the past 12 months as we continue to expand our worldwide operations. Interest Income Interest income increased $0.3 million, from $0.8 million in fiscal 2012 to $1.1 million in fiscal 2013. The increase in interest income is primarily due to higher balances in our cash and related investment accounts. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $28.7 million in fiscal 2013 compared to $18.1 million in fiscal 2012. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2013 was 35% as compared to 36% in fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2013, the effective rate was benefited by the reenactment of the research and development credit which had previously expired on December 31, 2011 and includes an additional benefit related to periods prior to March 31, 2012 as tax law is accounted for in the period of enactment. In addition, the effective rate was benefited by foreign tax credits, offset by state income taxes and permanent differences in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. In fiscal 2012, the effective rate was higher than the expected federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and permanent differences in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions, partially offset by income tax benefits from recording research and foreign tax credits; domestic production activities deductions; and reversing $1.6 million of our valuation allowance against New Jersey state research tax credits due to the passage of state laws. Fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 compared to fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 Revenues Total revenues increased $91.9 million, or 29%, from $314.8 million in fiscal 2011 to $406.6 million in fiscal 2012. Software Revenue. Software revenue increased $52.0 million, or 35%, from $149.8 million in fiscal 2011 to $201.8 million in fiscal 2012. Software revenue represented 50% of our total revenues in fiscal 2012 compared to 48% in fiscal 2011. The overall increase in software revenue was primarily driven by higher enterprise software transactions (transactions greater than $0.1 million), which increased by $33.1 million in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. As a result, enterprise software transactions represented approximately 52% of our software revenue in fiscal 2012 and approximately 48% of our software revenue in fiscal 2011. The increase in enterprise software transactions is due to both a 37% increase in the number of transactions of this type and a 7% increase in the average dollar amount of such transactions. The average dollar amount of enterprise transactions was approximately $241,000 in fiscal 2012 and approximately $226,000 in fiscal 2011. Software revenue derived from transactions less than $0.1 million increased $18.9 million, or 24%, in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. Software revenue derived from the United States in fiscal 2012 increased 40% compared to fiscal 2011 and software revenue derived from our international operations in fiscal 2012 increased 28% compared to fiscal 2011. The growth in software revenue in our international locations is primarily due to increases in Europe, Australia and Canada as we expand our international operations. 49 Table of Contents Software revenue derived from our indirect distribution channel (resellers and original equipment manufacturers) increased $44.0 million in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011, and software revenue through our direct sales force increased $8.0 million in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. The increase in the dollar value of the software revenue through our indirect distribution channel is primarily due to the increase in software revenue generated in foreign locations, which is substantially sold through our channel partners. The increase in the dollar value of the software revenue through our direct sales channel is primarily due certain of our enterprise software transactions in the United States in the first quarter and fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 being sold through our direct sales channel. Software revenue that is derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We will continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term as more fully discussed above in the Sources of Revenue section. Services Revenue. Services revenue increased $39.9 million, or 24%, from $165.0 million in fiscal 2011 to $204.8 million in fiscal 2012. Services revenue represented 50% of our total revenues in fiscal 2012 compared to 52% in fiscal 2011. The increase in services revenue is primarily due to a $31.8 million increase in revenue from customer support agreements as a result of software sales to new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base. Cost of Revenues Total cost of revenues increased $12.4 million, or 30%, from $41.0 million in fiscal 2011 to $53.4 million in fiscal 2012. Total cost of revenues represented 13% of our total revenues in both fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011. Cost of Software Revenue. Cost of software revenue increased approximately $0.4 million, or 16%, from $2.4 million in fiscal 2011 to $2.7 million in fiscal 2012. Cost of software revenue represented 1% of our total software revenue in fiscal 2012 and 2% of our total software revenue in fiscal 2011. The increase in cost of software revenue is primarily due to higher third party royalty costs associated with our Simpana software suite in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. Cost of Services Revenue. Cost of services revenue increased $12.0 million, or 31%, from $38.6 million in fiscal 2011 to $50.7 million in fiscal 2012. Cost of services revenue represented 25% of our services revenue in fiscal 2012 compared to 23% in fiscal 2011. The increase in the cost of services as a percentage of total services revenue in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 was primarily due to a higher percentage of our services revenue being derived from professional services engagements as well as higher costs of services associated with the expansion of our worldwide customer support operations. The increase in the dollar amount of cost of services revenue is primarily the result of higher employee compensation and travel expenses totaling approximately $5.6 million as well as a $3.6 million increase in third-party outsourcing costs to facilitate our delivery of services. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses increased $56.0 million, or 34%, from $163.1 million in fiscal 2011 to $219.0 million in fiscal 2012. The increase is primarily due to a $42.7 million increase in employee compensation and related expenses attributable to the expansion of our sales force from the prior year as well as higher commissions expense due to record revenues and higher headcount. The increase in sales and marketing expenses also includes $3.0 million in higher travel and related expenses due to the expansion of our sales force, a $2.8 million increase in stock-based compensation expenses and a $2.1 million increase in advertising and marketing related expenses as we continue to build brand awareness for our Simpana software products. Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total revenues increased to 54% in fiscal 2012 compared to 52% in fiscal 2011. 50 Table of Contents Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased $3.0 million, or 8%, from $37.0 million in fiscal 2011 to $39.9 million in fiscal 2012. The increase is primarily due to higher salary and related expenses resulting from the expansion of our engineering group and higher fiscal 2012 bonus expense totaling approximately $2.8 million. Research and development expenses as a percentage of total revenues decreased to 10% in fiscal 2012 from 12% in fiscal 2011. Investing in research and development has been a priority for CommVault, and we anticipate continued spending related to the development of our data and information management software applications. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses increased $6.4 million, or 19%, from $34.2 million in fiscal 2011 to $40.6 million in fiscal 2012. This increase is primarily due to a $3.7 million increase in employee and related compensation due to higher headcount and higher fiscal 2012 bonus expense as well as a $2.2 million increase in stock-based compensation expenses. These increases were partially offset by lower net foreign currency transaction losses of $0.4 million. General and administrative expenses in fiscal 2012 includes $0.2 million of net foreign currency transaction losses compared to $0.6 million of net foreign currency transaction losses recognized in general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2011. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues decreased to 10% in fiscal 2012 from 11% in fiscal 2011. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation expense increased $0.6 million, from $3.8 million in fiscal 2011 to $4.4 million in fiscal 2012. This reflects higher depreciation associated with increased capital expenditures primarily over the past 12 months as we expand our worldwide operations. Interest Income Interest income increased $0.1 million, from $0.7 million in fiscal 2011 to $0.8 million in fiscal 2012. The increase in interest income is primarily due to higher balances in our cash and related investment accounts. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $18.1 million in fiscal 2012 compared to $15.3 million in fiscal 2011. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2012 was 36% as compared to 42% in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2012, the effective rate is higher than the expected federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to state income taxes and permanent differences in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions, partially offset by income tax benefits from recording research and foreign tax credits; domestic production activities deductions; and reversing $1.6 million of our valuation allowance against New Jersey state research tax credits due to the passage of state laws. In fiscal 2011, the effective rate is higher than the expected federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to recording a valuation allowance against New Jersey research tax credits as well as the impact of state income taxes and permanent differences in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. These items were partially offset by the reversal of certain tax reserves as a result of the expiration of a statute of limitations in a foreign jurisdiction as well as recording additional research tax credits. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2013, our cash and cash equivalents balance of $434.0 million primarily consisted of money market funds. In addition, we have approximately $1.9 million of short-term investments invested in certificates of deposit at March 31, 2013. In recent fiscal years, our principal sources of liquidity have been cash provided by operations. As of March 31, 2013, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States by our foreign legal entities was approximately $87.6 million. These balances are dispersed across many international locations around the world. We believe that such dispersion meets the current and anticipated future liquidity needs of our foreign legal entities. In addition, it is our intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of our foreign legal entities. In the event we needed to repatriate funds from outside of the United States, such 51 Table of Contents repatriation would likely be subject to restrictions by local laws and/or tax consequences including foreign withholding taxes or U.S. income taxes. It is not currently practical to estimate the legal restrictions or tax liability that would arise from such repatriations. As of March 31 2013, we are authorized to repurchase up to a total of $220.0 million of our common stock through March 31, 2014 under our stock repurchase program. Under our stock repurchase program, repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to unissued status. Our stock repurchase program has been funded by our existing cash and cash equivalent balances as well as cash flows provided by our operations. There were no repurchases of our common stock during fiscal 2013. As of March 31, 2013, we have repurchased approximately $117.2 million, or 5.7 million shares, under our stock repurchase plan at an average purchase price of $20.43 per share. As a result, we may repurchase an additional $102.8 million of our common stock through March 31, 2014. The primary business reason for our stock repurchase program is to reduce the dilutive impact on our common shares outstanding associated with stock option exercises and our previous public and private stock offerings. Under our stock repurchase program, we have bought back approximately 13% of the common stock that was outstanding at the time the stock repurchase program was announced. In addition, at the time we implemented our stock repurchase program in late fiscal 2008 we believed that our share price was undervalued and the best use for a portion of our cash balance was to repurchase some of our outstanding common stock. Our future stock repurchase activity is subject to the business judgment of our management and Board of Directors, taking into consideration our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and other anticipated capital requirements or investment alternatives. On January 29, 2013, we closed on a purchase of land located in Tinton Falls, New Jersey for our future corporate campus headquarters to support the long-term growth of our business. We are in the process of completing the design and construction of the headquarters, which we expect to finalize over approximately the next 2 years. Our estimate of the build-out, including the land purchase, building and campus infrastructure, is approximately $125 million to $135 million. We expect to fund this capital expenditure from our existing cash and cash equivalent balances and our cash generated from operations. Our summarized annual cash flow information is as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2013 2012 2011 Net Cash provided by operating activities $ 112,683 $ 100,000 $ 52,410 Net Cash provided by (used in) investing activities (15,832 ) (7,792 ) 28 Net Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 41,208 (11,507 ) (7,304 ) Effects of exchange rate changes in cash (1,183 ) (783 ) 2,518 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 136,876 $ 79,918 $ 47,652 Net cash provided by operating activities was $112.7 million in fiscal 2013, $100.0 million in fiscal 2012 and $52.4 million in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2013, cash generated by operating activities was primarily due to net income adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges; an increase in deferred services revenue as a result of customer support agreements from new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base; and an increase in accrued liabilities. These increases were partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable due to higher revenues and timing of cash receipts. In fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, cash generated by operating activities was primarily due to net income adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges; an increase in deferred services revenue as a result of customer support agreements from new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base; and an increase in accrued liabilities. 52 Table of Contents Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities was ($15.8) million in fiscal 2013, ($7.8) million in fiscal 2012 and less than $0.1 million in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2013, cash used in investing activities was due to the purchase of property and equipment in the amounts of $9.2 million for purchases relating to our new corporate campus headquarters and $7.8 million of capital expenditures as we continue to invest in and enhance our global infrastructure. These increases were partially offset by net proceeds from the maturity of short-term investments of $1.2 million. In fiscal 2012, cash used in investing activities was due to the purchase of property and equipment of $5.8 million related to growth in our business as well as the net purchases of short-term investments of $2.0 million. In fiscal 2011, cash provided by investing activities was due to the net proceeds from maturity of short-term investments of $3.9 million offset by the purchase of property and equipment of $3.9 million related to growth in our business. Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $41.2 million in fiscal 2013, ($11.5) million in fiscal 2012 and ($7.3) million in fiscal 2011. The cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2013 was due to $23.1 million of excess tax benefits recognized as a result of stock option exercises and $18.1 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. The cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2012 was due to $45.6 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock under our repurchase program, partially offset by $18.1 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $16.0 million of excess tax benefits recognized as a result of stock option exercises. The cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2011 was due to $31.5 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program partially offset by $17.2 million from the exercise of stock options and $7.0 million of excess tax benefits recognized as the result of stock option exercises and vesting of restricted stock units. A summary of the cash used for the stock repurchase program consists of the following: Year Ended March 31, 2013 2012 2011 Cash used for repurchases (in thousands)* $ $ 45,639 $ 31,506 Shares repurchased (in thousands)* 1,323 1,559 Average price per share $ $ 34.45 $ 20.21 * Based on settlement date, not trade date. Working capital increased $120.8 million from $222.3 million as of March 31, 2012 to $343.1 million as of March 31, 2013. The increase in working capital is primarily due to a $135.7 million increase in cash and short-term investments and a $17.2 million increase in accounts receivable. These increases were partially offset by a $27.7 million increase in deferred revenue and a $9.7 million increase in accrued liabilities. The increase in cash and short-term investments is primarily due to net income generated during the period, cash received from the collection of account receivables and cash received from the exercise of stock options. The increase in deferred revenue is primarily due to higher deferred services revenue from customer support agreements from software sales to new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base. The increase in accrued expenses is primarily due to higher employee and related compensation accruals. Working capital increased $42.9 million from $179.4 million as of March 31, 2011 to $222.3 million as of March 31, 2012. The increase in working capital is primarily due to an $81.9 million increase in cash and short-term investments. These increases were partially offset by a $27.1 million increase in deferred revenue, a $12.4 million increase in accrued liabilities and a $6.1 million decrease in accounts receivable. The increase in cash and short-term investments is primarily due to net income generated during the period, cash received from the collection of account receivables and cash received from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by cash used to repurchase common stock during fiscal 2012. The increase in deferred revenue is primarily due to higher deferred services revenue from customer support agreements from software sales to new customers and renewal agreements with our installed software base. The increase in accrued expenses is primarily due to higher 53 Table of Contents employee and related compensation accruals and the decrease in accounts receivable is primarily due to strong collections efforts and timing of cash receipts. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and our cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures (including our planned new corporate campus headquarters) and potential stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings or other arrangements during this period. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Summary Disclosures about Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Our material capital commitments consist of obligations under facilities and operating leases. Some of these leases have free or escalating rent payment provisions. We recognize rent expense under leases on a straight-line basis. We anticipate that we will experience an increase in our capital expenditures and lease commitments as a result of our anticipated growth in operations, infrastructure, personnel and resources devoted to building our brand name. The following table summarizes our obligations as of March 31, 2013 (dollars in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 2-3 Years 4-5 Years More Than 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 25,167 $ 9,639 $ 14,030 $ 1,498 $ Purchase obligations 6,306 4,403 1,791 112 Total $ 31,473 $ 14,042 $ 15,821 $ 1,610 $ We generally do not enter into binding purchase obligations. The purchase obligations above relate primarily to marketing and software development services, IT infrastructure costs and costs associated with the design and construction of our corporate campus headquarters. The contractual obligations table above excludes unrecognized tax benefits recorded in Other Liabilities totaling $5.4 million because we cannot reasonably estimate in which future periods these amounts will ultimately be settled. The $5.4 million is classified as a long-term liability in our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2013 as none of these obligations are anticipated to be paid within one year from April 1, 2013. As of March 31, 2013, we have an outstanding letter of credit for $0.1 million issued in connection with a revenue transaction. This letter of credit will remain outstanding until September 17, 2013. We have certain software royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a fixed cost per unit shipped or a fixed fee for unlimited units shipped over a designated period. Royalty expense, included in cost of software revenues, was $2.1 million in fiscal 2013, $1.6 million in fiscal 2012 and $1.3 million in fiscal 2011. We offer a 90-day limited product warranty for our software. To date, costs relating to this product warranty have not been material. 54 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2013 and 2012, other than our operating leases, we do not have off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. Indemnifications Certain of our software licensing agreements contain certain provisions that indemnify our customers from any claim, suit or proceeding arising from alleged or actual intellectual property infringement. These provisions continue in perpetuity along with our software licensing agreements. We have never incurred a liability relating to one of these indemnification provisions in the past and we believe that the likelihood of any future payout relating to these provisions is remote. Therefore, we have not recorded a liability during any period related to these indemnification provisions. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In February 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2013-02, Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (ASU 2013-02), which requires companies to present information about reclassification adjustments from accumulated other comprehensive income in their financial statements or footnotes. ASU 2013-02 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2012. The new requirements will take effect for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 and will be applied prospectively. We do not believe the adoption of ASU 2013-02 will have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) Presentation of Comprehensive Income (ASU 2011-05), to require an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate, but consecutive statements. ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. ASU 2011-05 became effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and was applied retrospectively. There was no significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. The FASB also continues to work on a number of significant accounting rules which may impact our accounting and disclosures in future periods. Since these rules have not yet been issued, the effective dates and potential impact are unknown.