Item 2 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The statements in this discussion regarding our expectations of our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2025. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Overview Commvault Systems, Inc. aims to provide its customers cyber resiliency by protecting and recovering their data and cloud-native applications in a world of increasing cyber threats and attacks, including ransomware. We provide products and services across many types of environments, including on-premises, hybrid and multi-cloud. Our offerings are delivered via self-managed software, software-as-a-service ("SaaS"), integrated appliances, or managed by partners. Sources of Revenues We generate revenues through subscription arrangements, which includes both term-based software licenses and SaaS, perpetual software licenses, customer support contracts and other services. A significant portion of our total revenues comes from subscription arrangements, whether deployed on-premises (term-based license) or delivered via hosted cloud SaaS solutions. These arrangements are economically and contractually similar, as customers receive access to our software for a specified term under binding agreements. We are focused on these types of recurring revenue arrangements. We expect our subscription arrangements will continue to generate revenues from the renewals of term-based licenses and SaaS offerings sold in prior years. Any of our pricing models (capacity, instance based, etc.) can be sold either through term-based licensing or via hosted cloud SaaS solutions. In term-based license arrangements, software revenue is generally recognized when the software is delivered. Revenue related to SaaS is recognized ratably over the contract period. We sell to end-user customers both directly through our sales force and indirectly through our global network of value-added reseller partners, systems integrators, corporate resellers, original equipment manufacturers, and marketplaces. Revenue generated through indirect distribution channels accounted for approximately 90% of total revenues in both the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. Revenue generated through direct distribution channels accounted for approximately 10% of total revenues in both the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. Deals initiated by our direct sales force are sometimes transacted through indirect channels based on end-user customer requirements, which are not always in our control and can cause this overall percentage split to vary from period-to-period. As such, there may be fluctuations in the dollars and percentage of revenue generated through our distribution channels from time-to-time. We believe that the growth of our revenue, derived from both our indirect channel partners and direct sales force, are key attributes to our long-term growth strategy. We intend to continue to invest in both our channel relationships and direct sales force in the future, but we continue to expect more revenue to be generated through indirect distribution channels over the long term. The failure of our indirect distribution channels or our direct sales force to effectively sell our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We have non-exclusive distribution agreements with certain partners who enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our solutions by managing our resellers and leveraging their own industry experience. For the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, Partner A accounted for approximately 33% and 34% of our total revenues, respectively. Separately, Partner B accounted for approximately 11% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2025. Total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2024 for Partner B were not material. If these partners discontinue or reduce the sales of our solutions or if our agreements with them were terminated, and if we were unable to take back the management of our reseller channel or find another distributor to replace them, there could be a material adverse effect on our future business. Our customer support revenue includes support contracts tied to our software products. Customer support includes software updates on a when-and-if-available basis, telephone support, integrated web-based support, and other premium support offerings, for both term-based software license and perpetual software license arrangements. We sell our customer support contracts as a percentage of net software purchases. Customer 19 Table of Contents support revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the customer support agreement, which is typically one year on our perpetual licenses and over the term on our term-based licenses, which typically range from one to three years. Our other services revenue consists primarily of professional service offerings, including consultation, assessment and design, installation services, and customer education. Revenues from other services can vary period over period based on the timing services are delivered and are typically recognized as the services are performed. For additional information on how we recognize revenue, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Key Performance Indicators ($ in millions) We monitor the following key performance indicators to help evaluate the state of our business. We believe the below metrics are material to investors to understand the growth and performance of our business, as they help normalize certain variable factors. Metrics such as Annualized Recurring Revenue ("ARR"), Subscription ARR, SaaS ARR and SaaS Net Dollar Retention Rate ("SaaS NRR") provide a consistent view of our recurring revenue profile. ARR, Subscription ARR, and SaaS ARR exclude non-recurring elements and reflect the annualized value of active contracts, while SaaS NRR measures net expansion within our existing customer base. Together, we believe these metrics offer meaningful insight into the health and trajectory of our recurring revenue streams. Annualized Recurring Revenue (ARR) ARR represents the annualized recurring value of all active contracts at the end of a reporting period. It includes recurring subscription offerings (including term licenses, SaaS, and utility software), maintenance related to perpetual and term licenses, extended maintenance contracts (enterprise support), and managed services. It excludes non-recurring elements such as perpetual licenses and professional services which are typically delivered at a point in time. ARR is calculated by dividing the total contract value by the number of days in the contract term and multiplying by 365. We believe ARR is a valuable metric for evaluating the growth of our business, as it provides a normalized view of recurring revenue by excluding the variability associated with contract term lengths and omitting contracts that are not expected to renew. June 30, 2025 2024 Total ARR $ 996.2 $ 802.7 % Growth 24 % 17 % Subscription ARR Subscription ARR includes only term licenses, SaaS, and utility arrangements, calculated using the same methodology as ARR. We believe Subscription ARR provides meaningful insight into the growth of our subscription-based offerings and reflects both new customer acquisition and expansion within our existing customer base. As our most strategically significant and rapidly expanding revenue streams, our subscription arrangements are central to our long-term growth strategy and operational focus. June 30, 2025 2024 Subscription ARR $ 843.9 $ 635.9 % Growth 33 % 27 % 20 Table of Contents SaaS ARR SaaS ARR includes only the cloud-hosted portion of Subscription ARR and is calculated using the same methodology. SaaS ARR reflects the annualized value of active SaaS contracts and we believe this metric provides insight into customer adoption trends and expansion within our cloud-based offerings. As SaaS continues to represent a growing share of our total revenue, we view this metric as a key indicator of our ability to meet the evolving needs of our customer base. Continued adoption and conversion to SaaS arrangements are critical to sustaining our long-term growth and aligning with customer preferences for cloud-delivered solutions. June 30, 2025 2024 SaaS ARR $ 306.9 $ 187.9 % Growth 63 % 66 % SaaS Net Dollar Retention Rate (SaaS NRR) SaaS NRR is the percentage of SaaS ARR retained from existing customers at the start of an annual period after accounting for expansion revenue, churn, and downgrades. It is presented on a constant currency basis using exchange rates as of March 31, 2025. We believe our SaaS Net Dollar Retention Rate offers valuable insight into the year-over-year expansion of our existing customer base, reflecting both increased utilization of current products and services as well as the adoption of additional offerings. June 30, 2025 2024 SaaS NRR 125 % 127 % These metrics are non-GAAP measures and do not have standardized definitions under GAAP. As such, they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and should be considered as a supplement to, and not as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Management uses these metrics to assess the health of our recurring revenue base and to inform strategic decision-making. These metrics should be viewed independently of GAAP revenue, deferred revenue and unbilled revenue and are not intended to be combined with or to replace those items. ARR is not a forecast of future revenue. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations Sales outside the United States were 44%and48%of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The income statements of our non-U.S. operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates for each applicable month in a period. To the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions generally results in increased revenues, operating expenses and income from operations for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, our revenues, operating expenses and income from operations will generally decrease for our non-U.S. operations if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. Using the average foreign currency exchange rates from the three months ended June 30, 2024, our total revenues would have been lower by $5.0 million, our cost of revenues would have been lower by $0.2 million and our operating expenses would have been lower by $1.5 million from non-U.S. operations for the three months ended June 30, 2025. In addition, we are exposed to risks of foreign currency fluctuation primarily from cash balances, accounts receivables and intercompany accounts denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to the resulting transaction gains and losses, which are recorded as a component of general and administrative expenses. We recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of approximately $1.2 million and insignificant losses for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. 21 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies In presenting our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, we are required to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported therein. Some of the estimates and assumptions we are required to make relate to matters that are inherently uncertain as they pertain to future events. We base these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable and appropriate. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by U.S. GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application, while in other cases, significant judgment is required in selecting among available alternative accounting standards that allow different accounting treatment for similar transactions. We consider these policies requiring significant management judgment to be critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are: Revenue Recognition Accounting for Income Taxes Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies during the three months ended June 30, 2025 as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2025. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations Amounts reported in millions are rounded based on the amounts in thousands. As a result, the sum of the components reported in millions may not equal the total amount reported in millions due to rounding. Three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to three months ended June 30, 2024 Revenues ($ in millions) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 2024 % Change Subscription: Term-based license $ 109.3 $ 80.4 36 % SaaS 72.4 43.7 66 % Total subscription 181.7 124.1 46 % Perpetual license 7.3 13.7 (47) % Customer support 79.0 76.3 4 % Other services 13.9 10.6 31 % Total revenues $ 282.0 $ 224.7 26 % Total revenues increased $57.3 million, or 26% year over year, driven primarily by an increase in both term-based license revenue and SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in perpetual license revenue. We remain focused on selling subscription arrangements through both term-based software licenses and SaaS offerings. Term-based license revenue increased $28.9 million, or 36%year over year, primarily due to a 39% increase in larger transactions (deals greater than $0.1 million) period over period. This increase was driven by a 24% increase in customer volume and a 12% increase in the average selling price for larger transactions. SaaS revenue increased $28.8 million, or 66% year over year, as a result of growth in both new customer acquisitions and expansion of our existing customer base. Perpetual license revenue decreased $6.4 million, or 47% year over year. Our preferred route to market for software is led by the sale of term-based licenses. Perpetual licenses are generally only sold in certain verticals and geographies. Customer support revenue increased $2.7 million, or 4% year over year, driven by a $7.9 million increase in customer support revenue related to term-based license arrangements, partially offset by a $5.2 million decrease in customer support revenue attached to perpetual license support renewals. Other services revenue increased $3.3 million, or 31% year over year. Changes in other services revenue can vary period over period, primarily due to the timing professional services are delivered. We track total revenues on a geographic basis. Our Americas region includes the United States, Canada, and Latin America. Our International region primarily includes Europe, Middle East, Africa, Australia, India, Southeast Asia and China. Americas and International represented 61% and 39% of total revenues, respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2025. Total revenues increased 23% and 29% year over year in the Americas and International, respectively. The increase in Americas total revenues was primarily due to increases of 16% and 82% in term-based license and SaaS revenues, respectively, partially offset by a 37% decrease in perpetual license revenue, driven by the shift from selling perpetual licenses to subscription software arrangements. Customer support revenue increased 1% year over year. Other services revenue increased 45% year over year primarily due to the timing professional services were delivered compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in International total revenues was due to increases of 90%, 42%, 7% and 11% in term-based license, SaaS, customer support and other services revenues, respectively, partially offset by a decrease of 51% in perpetual license revenue, as compared to the same period of the prior year. Our total revenues in International is subject to changes in foreign exchange rates as further discussed above in the Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Impact on Results of Operations section. 23 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin ($ in millions) Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 2024 Cost of Revenues Gross Margin Cost of Revenues Gross Margin Subscription: Term-based license $ 2.2 98 % $ 1.8 98 % SaaS 26.0 64 % 15.8 64 % Total subscription 28.2 84 % 17.5 86 % Perpetual license 0.2 97 % 0.3 98 % Customer support 14.2 82 % 14.3 81 % Other services 8.1 42 % 7.6 28 % Total cost of revenues $ 50.8 82 % $ 39.8 82 % Total cost of revenues increased $11.0 million and represented 18% of our total revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. Cost of term-based license revenue increased $0.5 million and represented 2% of our term-based license revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. Cost of SaaS revenue increased $10.2 million and represented 36% of our SaaS revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. The year over year increase is primarily the result of incremental hosting costs associated with acquisitions completed in fiscal 2025 and an increase in the cost of infrastructure related to growth in our SaaS offerings. Cost of perpetual license revenue decreased $0.1 million and represented 3% of our perpetual revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to 2% for the three months ended June 30, 2024. Cost of customer support revenue decreased $0.1 million, representing 18% of our customer support revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to 19% for the three months ended June 30, 2024. Cost of other services revenue increased $0.5 million, representing 58% of our other services revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to 72% for the three months ended June 30, 2024. 24 Table of Contents Operating Expenses ($ in millions) Sales and marketing expenses increased $26.5 million, or 28%, primarily driven by a $13.3 million increase in employee compensation and sales commissions associated with increases in headcount and revenues relative to the same period in the prior year, including an increase of $3.1 million in stock-based compensation. In addition, there was an increase year over year of $9.0 million due to higher spending on marketing initiatives, which included in-person events and travel. Research and development expenses increased $7.0 million, or 21%, driven by an increase of $5.4 million in employee compensation and related expenses, including an increase of $1.9 million in stock-based compensation. The increase in employee compensation and related expenses is primarily driven by additional headcount, including headcount related to acquisitions completed in fiscal 2025. Investing in research and development remains a priority for Commvault and we anticipate continued responsible spending related to the development of our software applications and hosted services. General and administrative expenses increased $10.5 million, or 34%, driven by an increase of $8.3 million in employee compensation and related expenses, including an increase of $3.0 million in stock-based compensation. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $0.7 million, driven by the acquisition of intangible assets in fiscal 2025. Restructuring: Our restructuring plan, initiated in the first quarter of fiscal 2026, is intended to optimize our Business Technology organization. Restructuring expenses were $0.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2025. These charges relate primarily to severance and related costs associated with headcount reductions and include $0.1 million of stock-based compensation related to modifications of existing awards granted to certain employees impacted by the plan. We anticipate the restructuring plan will be completed in fiscal 2026. Restructuring expenses were $4.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 related to a prior restructuring plan that was completed in fiscal 2025. Risks associated with our restructuring plan include additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational and growth targets due to the loss of key employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated results of operations or otherwise harm our business. Change in contingent consideration: During the three months ended June 30, 2025, we recorded a reduction to expense of $0.5 million related to the final achievement under our contingent consideration arrangement related to the acquisition of Appranix, Inc. The arrangement, with final aggregate consideration 25 Table of Contents of $1.9 million, was contingent upon meeting certain financial metrics by June 30, 2025 and could have ranged up to $4.0 million. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $3.4 million in the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to expense of $2.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2024. The increase in income tax expense compared to the same period in the prior year relates primarily to estimated current federal taxes. We continue to monitor the impact of new global and U.S. legislation on our effective tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources In recent fiscal years, our principal source of liquidity has been cash provided by operations. As of June 30, 2025, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $363.2 million, of which approximately $289.7 million was held outside of the United States by our foreign legal entities. These balances are dispersed across approximately 35 international locations around the world. We believe that such dispersion meets the current and anticipated future liquidity needs of our foreign legal entities. In the event we need to repatriate funds from outside of the United States, such repatriation would likely be subject to restrictions by local laws and/or tax consequences, including foreign withholding taxes. On April 15, 2025, we refinanced our existing $100 million senior secured revolving credit facility, replacing it with a new five-year $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto. The Credit Facility is available for share repurchases, general corporate purposes, and letters of credit. The Credit Facility contains financial maintenance covenants, including a leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio. The Credit Facility also contains certain customary events of default which would permit the lenders to, among other things, declare all loans then outstanding to be immediately due and payable if such default is not cured within applicable grace periods. The Credit Facility also limits our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness, create or permit liens on assets, make acquisitions or investments, make loans or advances, sell or transfer assets, pay dividends or distributions, and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility accrue interest at a per annum rate determined by the Companys election of either the Secured Overnight Financing Rate plus a margin ranging from 1.50% to 2.00%, or a base rate, which is generally the greater of a prime rate plus a margin ranging from 0.50% to 1.00%. The applicable margin in each case is contingent upon the Companys leverage ratio. Additionally, the unused balance on the Credit Facility is subject to an unused commitment fee at a rate equal to 0.25% per annum subject to increases based on the Company's leverage ratio. As of June 30, 2025, there were no borrowings under the Credit Facility and we were in compliance with all covenants. On April 17, 2025, the Board of Directors approved an increase of the existing share repurchase program so that $250.0 million was available. The Board's authorization has no expiration date. For the three months ended June 30, 2025, we repurchased $15.1 million of our common stock. The remaining amount available under the current authorization as of June 30, 2025 was $235.0 million. Our summarized cash flow information is as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 31.7 $ 44.7 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 26.8 (22.3) Net cash used in financing activities (16.9) (46.1) Effects of exchange rate - changes in cash 19.5 (1.2) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 61.1 $ (24.9) 26 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by net income adjusted for the impact of non-cash charges and a decrease in accrued expenses, partially offset by an increase in deferred revenue. Net cash provided by investing activities was the result of $34.8 millionof net proceeds from the sale of Commvault's corporate headquarters, partially offset by $6.1 million for the purchase of equity securities and $1.9 million of capital expenditures. Net cash used in financing activities was the result of $15.1 million of repurchases of our common stock and $1.8 million of payment of debt issuance costs. Working capital increased $51.1 million from $80.0 million as of March 31, 2025 to $131.1 million as of June 30, 2025. The net increase in working capital was primarily the result of an increase in cash and cash equivalents and a decrease in accrued liabilities, partially offset by an increase in the current portion of deferred revenue. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and our cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital, income taxes, capital expenditures and potential stock repurchases for at least the next 12 months. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings or other arrangements during this period. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of the impact of recently issued accounting standards.