Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 Operating Expenses Research and Development for more information. The caliber and pedigree of our technology leadership helps us attract and retain top-tier software engineers and artificial intelligence talent globally. We have a team of over 1,500 highly experienced product and engineering professionals based out of our innovation hubs in New York, Seattle, Washington, D.C. and several cities in India, as well as other locations throughout the U.S. and internationally. Our integrated platform supports agents to win more clients and more effectively serve both sellers and buyers. 5 Table of Contents Attracting and Retaining Clients Our platform provides a strong foundation for agents to create and foster client relationships. Our powerful customer relationship management (CRM) platform enables agents to develop automated yet customizable drip campaigns to stay in touch with their contacts at key moments over time. Through our Marketing Center, agents can market their own personal brands by creating marketing collateral digital ads, videos, listing presentations, email newsletters, print advertising and signage as well as execute marketing campaigns, with mere minutes of effort. Our agents designed over a million different pieces of marketing content through our platform in 2021. Advising Sellers Our platform enables agents to sell more homes in less time for a better price. We believe we provide agents with the solutions and data they need to effectively list and market properties and run the sale process more efficiently utilizing our tools. For example, Compass Concierge is designed to increase the sale value of the home and decrease the time on market. Marketing Center provides agents a powerful suite of tools they can use to easily create tailored marketing materials and execute marketing campaigns for any listing, seamlessly connecting to a multimedia repository containing a listing description, photos and floorplan, across digital, social, email, video and print channels, helping them attract buyers. Our AI-powered comparative market analysis (CMA) tool enables agents to optimize pricing strategies for clients, leveraging data on past sales and current listings to suggest representative comparable properties. Agents can also use our platform to conduct virtual tours and livestream open houses through our Open House app to ensure listings receive ample attention. When advising a seller, our services to the agent extend beyond the sale of the home. In preparing for and closing the transaction, our agents can use our platform to recommend adjacent services to clients such as title, escrow and mortgage services in certain markets and referrals to service providers post-closing. Advising Buyers Our platform enables agents to locate desirable properties at attractive prices for buyers. Our agents provide clients with access to comprehensive inventory, including private listings, help them understand local market dynamics, tour properties, prepare and close offers, and better manage the overall home buying process. With Compass Collections, a curated visual workspace, Compass agents and clients can easily find and organize homes of interest and then tag and discuss specific properties through an integrated chat feature. With near real-time search alerts and notifications, clients can monitor new listings and gain an edge in securing properties of interest. Once properties of interest are identified, our solutions enable agents to conduct virtual and in-person tours for clients. Using our CMA, agents can better understand the pricing dynamics of specific markets, neighborhoods and home features, ultimately providing informed advice regarding potential offers. We also provide our agents with access to services associated with closing a home purchase, such as title, escrow and mortgage services in certain markets. 6 Table of Contents Our Platform Capabilities Our platform aims to digitize, integrate and simplify all real estate workflows for Compass agents and their clients. It is built on the premise that integration and ease of use are foundational to enabling Compass agents to more effectively run their businesses and serve their clients. Our platform is a proprietary cloud-native software service with mobile apps that allow agents to manage their business anytime and anywhere. We build beautifully designed consumer-grade user interfaces, automated and simplified workflows for agent-client interactions, and insight-rich dashboards and reports backed by artificial intelligence and integrated data assets. We empower our agents with capabilities such as: Customer Relationship Management . Given the high percentage of repeat and referral business done by our agents, their future transaction pipeline exists within their sphere of influence. The Compass CRM provides agents with an easy-to-use interface that is both powerful and automated, enabling agents to cultivate their sphere, nurture and grow relationships and close more sales. Our CRM leverages artificial intelligence to provide recommendations and insights, and integrates with other parts of our platform such as Marketing Center to create engaging content. Business Tracker. Released in January 2021, Business Tracker provides agents with a centralized view of their entire business. It enables agents to organize and manage their active leads, buyers, renters and listings, as well as view potential revenue at each stage of the transaction. Given Business Trackers deep integration with other Compass resources, such as Marketing Center, Collections, CMA, Tasks and Listing Insights, agents can serve the needs of every client - from first contact to closing - all from one place. Business Tracker includes multiple powerful capabilities that aim at boosting agent productivity. Two such examples are Team Collaboration, which allows agents to collaborate with any member of their team on any of their transactions, and Checklists, which enable agents to configure a set of tasks that get automatically applied to every transaction and can be assigned to specific members of their team. Marketing Content Creation and Management. With a broad array of integrated features, elegant templates and design capabilities, our Marketing Center allows agents to rapidly create, advertise and promote their listings at scale through the channel of their choosing: digital, social, email, video, print or signage. Agents can easily build, book, target and run digital ads all in one place with a simple yet powerful suite of content creation solutions. Home Valuation Analysis. Pricing a home is a complex and nuanced exercise. Powered by AI, our CMA enhances our agents market expertise by making recommendations and synthesizing complex data so Compass agents can help clients build the optimal pricing strategy for their home based on comparable properties. AI-Driven Client Prospecting Recommendations. Our AI technology recommends specific clients in an agents contact database that are more likely to sell their home, based on various data points like neighborhood sales trends, length of ownership, local market appreciation, and other information. 7 Table of Contents One-Click Listing Video Creation. Video Generator allows agents to create short, customized, professional videos with added music and text using existing listing photos in seconds simply by entering an address that can be shared on the listing page or social media. Digital Ad Campaigns. Our agents can use our platform to create paid digital ad campaigns on platforms such as Facebook and Instagram, with videos and engaging ad copy, in a matter of minutes. Listing Search and Saved Search Notifications. Our proprietary search algorithm and database simplifies and enhances the ability for Compass agents to find homes best suited for clients needs. Agents can set up very precise saved search alerts for clients to notify them of new listings that match their criteria in near real-time in the mobile app and in email. Agent-Client Collaborative Home Search . Compass Collections is a curated visual workspace allowing Compass agents and clients to collaborate in real time, easily organize homes, centralize discussions, and monitor the market by receiving immediate status and price updates. Listing Tour Scheduling and Coordination. With a simple interface, our agents can quickly schedule, coordinate and create routes for home tours, saving agents significant time. Virtual Tours. The platforms easy-to-use virtual tour feature combines home photo and video assets alongside a large multimedia repository to help agents conduct tours online. AI-Driven Renovation Visualization. Agents often help advise sellers on renovations and other preparations for their home to ensure the best market price. Compass Lens helps agents and homeowners visualize improvements to the home to determine what upgrades to make, ultimately to inform how these renovations could affect the selling price based on similar past transactions. Compass Lens is integrated into our listing comparison and preparation products and services, including Compass Concierge and CMA. Open House Management. The Compass platform provides several resources and mobile app functionality to manage open houses and tours across both in-person and virtual formats, giving agents the ability to maintain a high level of service and follow up, in addition to growing their sphere of influence. Listing Analytics. Compass Insights personalized dashboard contains all the key data points an agent needs to craft a winning marketing strategy around audience and traffic information, uncover new lead-generation opportunities, and invest accordingly in the positioning of a listing. Transaction Management. There are many burdensome steps involved in the closing of a transaction. We provide agents with transaction closing and post-closing support to reduce the complexity for clients and efficiently advise through a transactions lifecycle. 8 Table of Contents Agent Training. We offer training, including our self-service Compass Academy program and coaching, sales management, listing and transaction coordination, commission processing, and marketing design and consulting so that our agents can achieve their full potential. To nurture our agent talent, our self-service Compass Academy program allows for shared learning from among the highest performing Compass agents. As Compass agents and clients use the Compass platform to consolidate their activities for buying, selling, marketing and transacting real estate, they demonstrate high engagement with our platform. As we continue to build everything agents need in a single, integrated platform, we believe more great agents will continue to come to Compass. As more great agents join us, our platform helps them provide great experiences to more buyer and seller clients. The ability to create great client experiences drives continued business for agents with repeat and referral clients. This ultimately generates more revenue for the agent, and in turn, for Compass, which enables us to invest more into enhancing the platform. These investments further empower agents to grow their businesses efficiently and effectively. Adjacent Services We complement our technology platform with adjacent services that make our agents more successful and give them more tools to better serve their clients. These additional services support and service the needs of home buyers and sellers at various touch points of the residential real estate purchase process. We entered into the adjacent services market in 2018. Beginning in 2020, we expanded our title and escrow offerings to provide our agents clients with a more integrated, service-oriented solution and, in 2021, we launched OriginPoint, our residential mortgage origination joint venture with Guaranteed Rate, to provide an integrated service-oriented mortgage offering to our agents clients. In 2021, we acquired all or majority control of four title and escrow companies and as of December 31, 2021, our title and escrow services were available for approximately half of our agents transactions. Additionally, as of December 31, 2021, OriginPoint was fully operational in Illinois and licensed in 11 other states. The synergies between these adjacent services and our brokerage business increase transparency and deliver a more integrated closing process for agents and their clients. Adjacent services represent a $145 billion addressable market in the U.S. alone. In 2022, we plan to rapidly expand our footprint in the two largest adjacent services markets title and escrow services and mortgage origination. Our prior expansion into adjacent services and our future plans reaffirm our commitment to span the full transaction cycle and create more monetization opportunities for our business. We believe that we are well-positioned to capture meaningful revenue and EBITDA from the title and escrow services and mortgage origination as we continue to expand and diversify our offerings within the real estate ecosystem. Title and Escrow Services Our title, escrow and settlement services businesses provide through a growing network of escrow and closing agents full-service title, escrow and settlement (i.e., closing and escrow) services to agents clients, real estate companies, and financial institutions relating to the closing of home purchases as well as the refinancing of home loans, all of which are required in order to close a transaction. In many markets, clients typically look to their agents to direct them to the highest quality providers of these types of services after the purchase contract is signed. In 2021, our title, escrow and settlement services businesses were involved in a number of transactions involving our agents and also saw significant business from non-Compass brokerages, consumers, and outside sources. We provide title, escrow and settlement services under a multitude of local brands. As of December 31, 2021, we operated five distinct, regional title agencies: Modus Title, LLC, KVS Title, LLC, LegacyTexas Title, First Alliance Title CO, and CommonGround Abstract, LLC, as well as one standalone escrow business, Chartwell Escrow, Inc. These businesses have a combined presence across nine states (Washington, California, Colorado, Florida, Texas, Maryland, Virginia, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania) and Washington, D.C. In 2022, Compass plans to deepen our presence in our existing markets and further expand our title and escrow services to an additional number of markets. 9 Table of Contents Mortgage Joint Venture In July 2021, we and Guaranteed Rate, which is one of the nations largest retail mortgage companies, by and through our respective subsidiaries, formed OriginPoint, a residential mortgage origination company, which commenced operations in Chicago, Illinois in December 2021. OriginPoint is structured as a non-exclusive joint venture, where we hold a 49.9% equity interest and certain governance rights related to the joint venture, including representation on the management committee. OriginPoint originates mortgages for Compass agents clients, as well as the clients of any other brokerage, in the context of a new purchase or other customers not working with a brokerage in the context of a refinancing in order to make loans available to a broader consumer audience. OriginPoint currently offers a growing product suite including: Conforming/HB Fixed, Conforming/HB ARM, Jumbo Fixed, Jumbo Arm, FHA, and VA loans. OriginPoint has established and maintains its own warehouse lines of credit, and it funds its own mortgage loan transactions from these independent sources. The warehouse lines maintained by OriginPoint are collaterized by the underlying mortgages available for sale and are non-recourse to Compass. As of February 28, 2022, OriginPoint has received license approval in 18 states with many other state applications currently pending. By the end of 2022, OriginPoint aims to expand into the majority of our major markets. Compass Concierge Compass Concierge is a program in which we provide home sellers access to interest-free capital to front the cost of home improvement services. Home sellers can access funds to prepare their home for sale through Compass partnership with an independent third-party lender. Through December 31, 2021, we had partnered with our agents and sellers on over 24,100 Compass Concierge projects totaling approximately $680 million with an average project size of $28,200. Compass Concierge homes have accounted for over $31 billion in Gross Transaction Value for Compass. The program has successfully unlocked incremental transactions for our agents, delivered higher sale prices and reduced selling times for seller clients and also helped us attract high-performing agents to our platform. Human Capital Disclosure At Compass we believe that our long-term success is based on attracting, developing and retaining a diverse group of employees who espouse our entrepreneurship principles which define our culture: dream big; move fast; learn from reality; be solutions-driven; obsess about opportunity; collaborate without ego; maximize your strengths; and bounce back with passion. Our employees and agents use our principles to help guide their work experience and align with our mission of helping everyone find their place in the world. As of December 31, 2021, we had 4,775 employees and our product and engineering team consisted of approximately 1,500 highly experienced product and engineering professionals, including contractors, across our innovation hubs in New York, Seattle, Washington, DC and several cities in India as well as other locations through the US and internationally. None of our employees are represented by a labor organization or are a party to a collective bargaining arrangement. We offer market-competitive compensation and benefits to our employees. We strive to offer a comprehensive benefit package and evaluate and supplement our benefits periodically. Our benefits package includes base pay, bonus programs for selected roles, long-term equity grants, no-premium health, dental and vision insurance plans, fertility benefits, life and disability insurance benefits, paid time off (including vacation, a community service day, and paid parental leave), as well as other benefits, such as access to mental health resources, ability to participate in a broad-base 401K plan, and reimbursement for gym membership. 10 Table of Contents Competition The residential real estate and technology industries are highly competitive and fragmented. We compete to attract and retain top talent across the agent community, engineers, and employees in all other functions in order to build the best real estate transaction platform in fulfilment of our mission. Our business faces competition nationally and in each of the markets we serve from other technology companies and real estate brokerage firms, including a growing number of Internet-based brokerages and others who operate with a variety of business models. Some of these competitors provide similar services or products to us, including: providing software and technological innovation for agents, including marketing and CRM tools; brokering transactions for home buyers and sellers; providing tools to agents associated with real estate data aggregation; and providing adjacent products associated with residential real estate transactions, such as title and escrow and mortgage origination. Some companies may attempt to piece together various aspects of solutions that overlap with our offering, including: vertical SaaS technology companies; enterprise technology bellwethers; real estate financial services; and real estate brokerage firms. We believe we compete favorably based on multiple factors, including the strength and quality of our business, and our ability to retain our agents, our integrated suite of differentiated software and product solutions that empowers agents, our platform functionality and innovative product and service offerings that facilitate real estate transactions for both buyers and sellers, our growing scale, and our premier brand. Our differentiated focus on the agent enables us to deliver a premier brokerage and technology-enabled agent experience at scale. Regulation Regulation of the Brokerage Industry State Regulation. Brokerage businesses are primarily regulated at the state level by agencies dedicated to real estate matters or professional services. Real estate brokerage licensing laws vary widely from state to state. Generally, all individuals and entities acting as real estate brokers or salespersons must be licensed in each state (including Washington, D.C.) where they operate. In all states, licensed agents must be affiliated with a broker of record, managing broker, designated broker or similar licensee (a broker of record) to engage in licensed real estate brokerage activities. Generally, a brokerage must obtain a corporate real estate broker license, although in some jurisdictions the licenses are personal to individual brokers. The broker of record in all jurisdictions must actively supervise the individual licensees and the brokerages activities within the applicable jurisdiction. All licensed market participants, whether individuals or entities, must follow the jurisdictions real estate licensing laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally detail minimum duties, obligations, and standards of conduct, including requirements related to contracts, disclosures, record-keeping, local offices, trust funds, agency representation, advertising, and fair housing. In each of the jurisdictions where our business operates, we have designated a properly licensed broker as the broker of record and, where required, we also hold a corporate real estate brokers license. Federal Regulation. Several federal laws and regulations govern the real estate brokerage business, including federal fair housing laws (FHA) and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA). The FHA prohibits discrimination in the purchase or sale of homes and applies to real estate brokers and agents, among others. The FHA prohibits expressing any preference or discrimination based on race, religion, sex, handicap, and certain other protected characteristics, and applies broadly to many forms of advertising and communications. RESPA is a federal law intended to provide consumers with improved disclosures of settlement costs and reduce the costs of settlement services. It applies to real estate brokerage services among other real estate settlement services. See section entitled Regulation of Settlement Services (RESPA and Related State Law) below for additional details. We may also be subject to the American with Disabilities Act. Other Real Estate Industry Rules. Aside from federal, state and local regulations, we are subject to a variety of rules promulgated by trade organizations including the NAR, state and local associations of REALTORS, and Multiple Listing Services (MLSs). Generally, as members of these organizations, we are subject to their policies, bylaws, codes of ethics, and fees and rules, which govern our dealings with other members, the public, and clients as well as the manner in which we use and display the organizations brand and services. We have a dedicated team that works with a variety of stakeholders, including our brokers of record, to help manage and comply with these rules and policies. 11 Table of Contents Regulation of Settlement Services (RESPA and Related State Law) RESPA is a federal law intended to provide consumers with improved disclosures of settlement costs and reduce the costs of settlement services (e.g., real estate brokerage services, mortgage loan origination, title insurance, escrow and closing services, etc.) by eliminating referral fees and kickbacks. RESPA and other state anti-kickback statutes (state laws limiting or prohibiting cash rebates, gifts and other inducements to referrers of settlement services business and others) serve to regulate the payments which real estate brokers, title companies, mortgage bankers, mortgage brokers and other settlement service providers may receive or make in connection with the sales of residential real property and referral of settlement services business. RESPA and similar state laws generally require timely disclosure to consumers of certain relationships and financial interests with providers of real estate settlement services. Pursuant to The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB) administers RESPA. State authorities also have certain RESPA enforcement rights. RESPA compliance is of significant importance to us and across our affiliated businesses. Regulation of the Title & Escrow Services Industry Title insurance and escrow services typically require licensure and are heavily regulated industries, often through a states insurance regulator or other regulatory body. In a number of states, insurance rates are either promulgated by the state directly or are required to be filed with each state by the agent or underwriter. Some states also promulgate the split of title insurance premiums between the agent and underwriter. As part of the licensing process, states may also require title agencies, escrow companies and title underwriters to meet certain minimum financial requirements for net worth and working capital. In some states, such as Texas, no person may acquire control, directly or indirectly, of a title company unless the person has provided required information to, and the acquisition is approved or not disapproved by, the relevant regulator. Other states have controlled business statutes which generally require that a title agent seek or obtain business from unaffiliated brokerages. Regulation of the Mortgage Industry The mortgage industry is a heavily regulated industry and private mortgage lenders operating in the U.S. are required to comply with a wide array of federal, state and local laws and regulations that regulate, among other things, the manner in which mortgage companies, including our mortgage joint venture, OriginPoint, can operate its loan origination and servicing businesses, the fees such companies may charge, and the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal information. OriginPoint is required to be licensed in all relevant jurisdictions in which it operates and comply with the respective laws and regulations of each such jurisdiction, as well as with applicable judicial and administrative decisions. The comprehensive body of federal, state, and local laws that OriginPoint is subject to is continually evolving and developing, including laws on advertising and privacy described in more detail in the section entitled Cybersecurity and Data Privacy Regulations below. In addition, OriginPoint must also comply with a number of federal, state and local consumer protection laws including, among others, the Truth in Lending Act (TILA), RESPA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA), the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), the FHA, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA), the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, and the Homeowners Protection Act, among others. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB is authorized to engage in rulemaking and examination activity with respect to consumer financial products and services (including mortgage finance) and the authority to enforce compliance with federal consumer financial laws, including TILA and RESPA. The CFPB has issued a myriad of rules, including TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure rules, which impose significant obligations on OriginPoint. Antitrust and Competition Laws Our business is subject to antitrust and competition laws in the various jurisdictions where we operate, including the Sherman Antitrust Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act and the Clayton Act and related federal and state antitrust and competition laws in the U.S. The penalties for violating antitrust and competition laws can be severe. These laws and regulations generally prohibit competitors from fixing prices, boycotting competitors, dividing markets, or engaging in other conduct that unreasonably restrains competition. We (and independent sales agents affiliated with us) are also required to comply with state and local laws related to dual agency (such as where the same brokerage represents both the buyer and seller of a home) and increased regulation of dual agency representation may restrict or reduce the ability of impacted brokerages to participate in certain real estate transactions. Cybersecurity and Data Privacy Regulations We are subject to a variety of U.S. state laws and regulations relating to our collection, use, and disclosure of data collected from our website and mobile users, and the manner and circumstances under which we or third parties may market and advertise our services to consumers. These laws continue to evolve as various states enact new laws and clarifying regulations, imposing significant and ever-changing privacy and cybersecurity obligations. As a result, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, additional contractual requirements, and an increase in compliance costs. Some examples of the regulations we are required to comply with include without limitation, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), soon to be replaced with the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which will take effect January 1, 2023, and other similar state regulations, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA), which governs the disclosure and safeguarding of consumer financial information, and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), which restricts certain types of telemarketing calls and the use of auto-dialing systems and prerecorded messages and establishes a national Do-Not-Call registry. 12 Table of Contents Environmental Regulation Our technology platform operates in a cloud-based model which gives us an insignificant physical geographical footprint. While we have hundreds of physical offices, we locate them in population centers and they are no larger than needed to service our agents clients needs. Due to this, we are not materially impacted by any environmental regulations. Intellectual Property The protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important aspect of our business. We rely upon a combination of trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, patents, confidentiality procedures, contractual commitments, domain names, and other legal rights to establish and protect our intellectual property. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements and invention or work product assignment agreements with our officers, employees, agents, contractors, and business partners to control access to, and clarify ownership of, our proprietary information. As of December 31, 2021, we had more than 50 trademark registrations and applications in the United States, including registrations for Compass and the Compass logo. We also had 27 trademark registrations and applications in certain foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, we are the registered holder of a number of domain names, including compass.com. As of December 31, 2021, we had one U.S. patent application pending and one patent application pending under the patent cooperation treaty. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of new intellectual property. We intend to continue to evaluate the benefit of patent protection with respect to our technology, and will file additional applications when we believe it will be beneficial. Available Information We make available free of charge on our investor relations page on our website ( www.compass.com ), filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC. From time to time, we intend to announce material information to the public also through the investor relations page on our website, press releases, public conference calls, public webcasts, and our Twitter feed (@Compass), our Facebook page, our LinkedIn page, our Instagram account, our YouTube channel, and Robert Reffkins Twitter feed (@RobReffkin) and Robert Reffkins Instagram account (@robreffkin). We use these mediums, including our website, to communicate with our stockholders and the public about our company, our product candidates and other matters. It is possible that the information that we make available may be deemed to be material information. We therefore encourage investors and others interested in our company to review the information that we make available on our website. Further, corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines, board committee charters and code of ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Governance. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, the website referenced in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this filing, and the website address is provided only as an inactive textual reference. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as the other information in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below, or of additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Summary of Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those described at length below. These risks include, among others, the following, which we consider our most material risks: Our success depends on general economic conditions, the health of the U.S. real estate industry, and risks generally incident to the ownership of residential real estate, and our business may be negatively impacted by economic and industry downturns, including seasonal and cyclical trends, and volatility in the residential real estate market; If we fail to continuously innovate, improve and expand our platform to create value for our agents and their clients, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted; Our efforts to expand our brokerage and adjacent services businesses and offer additional adjacent services may not be successful; We may not realize the expected benefits from our mortgage joint venture; Mortgage originators are reliant on the secondary market so a change in the way the secondary market operates may impact our ability to originate mortgage loans; We have experienced rapid growth since inception which may not be indicative of our future growth. We expect that, in the future, even if our revenue increases, our rate of growth may decline; We have incurred net losses on an annual basis since we were founded, anticipate increasing our operating expenses in the future, and may not achieve or sustain profitability; The extent of the future impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial results will depend largely on future developments, which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict; We operate in highly competitive markets and we may be unable to compete successfully against competitors; Monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies may have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition; Any decrease in our gross commission income or the percentage of commissions that we collect may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition; Our quarterly results and other operating metrics may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes these difficult to predict; The loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business; 14 Table of Contents Actions by our agents or employees could adversely affect our reputation and subject us to liability; If we pursue acquisitions that are not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected; We are periodically subject to claims, lawsuits, government investigations and other proceedings that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations; The majority of our agents are independent contractors, and if federal or state law mandates that they be classified as employees, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely impacted; Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand; and The multi-class structure of our common stock will have the effect of concentrating voting power with Robert Reffkin, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and the approval of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or other major corporate transactions. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our success depends on general economic conditions, the health of the U.S. real estate industry, and risks generally incident to the ownership of residential real estate, and our business may be negatively impacted by economic and industry downturns, including seasonal and cyclical trends, and volatility in the residential real estate market. Our success is impacted, directly and indirectly, by general economic conditions, the health of the U.S. real estate industry, and risks generally incident to the ownership of residential real estate, many of which are beyond our control. Our business could be harmed by a number of factors that could impact the conditions of the U.S. real estate industry, including: a period of slow economic growth or recessionary conditions; volatility in the residential real estate industry; insufficient or excessive home inventory levels by market or price points; increasing mortgage rates and down payment requirements or constraints on the availability of mortgage financing; a low level of consumer confidence in the economy or the residential real estate market due to macroeconomic events domestically or internationally; weak credit markets; instability of financial institutions; 15 Table of Contents legislative or regulatory changes (including changes in regulatory interpretations or regulatory practices) that would adversely impact the residential real estate market as well as federal and/or state income tax changes and other tax reform affecting real estate and/or real estate transactions; insufficient or excessive regional home inventory levels; high levels of foreclosure activity, including but not limited to the release of homes already held for sale by financial institutions; adverse changes in local, regional, or national economic conditions; the inability or unwillingness of consumers to enter into sale transactions due to first-time homebuyer concerns about investing in a home and move-up buyers having limited or negative equity in their existing homes; a decrease in the affordability of homes including the impact of rising mortgage rates, home price appreciation and wage stagnation or wage increases that do not keep pace with inflation; decreasing home ownership rates, declining demand for real estate and changing social attitudes toward home ownership; and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other events (including pandemics and epidemics) that disrupt local or regional real estate markets. As our revenue is primarily driven by sales commissions and transaction fees, any slowdown or decrease in the total number of residential real estate sale transactions executed by our agents for any of the above reasons could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any of the above factors could have an adverse impact on the number of transactions our title and escrow business closes and the number of mortgages OriginPoint originates, further impacting our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the residential real estate market historically has been seasonal, with greater demand from home buyers in the spring and summer, and typically weaker demand in late fall and winter, resulting in fluctuations in the quantity, speed and price of transactions on our platform. Our financial results and working capital requirements reflect these seasonal variations. If we fail to continuously innovate, improve and expand our platform to create value for our agents and their clients, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our success depends on our ability to continuously innovate and improve our platform to provide value to our agents and their clients, including developing our CRM, Business Tracker, Marketing Center, listing, search, CMA, and other platform features for agents. As a result, we have and plan to continue to invest significant resources in research and development to improve and maintain our platform and support our technology infrastructure. Our investments in our platform allow us to provide an expanded suite of technology offerings, which we believe separate us from our competitors. In 2021, we made significant investments in our platform as we launched a number of new products and services. However, there can be no guarantee that in the future we can continue to launch new products and services in a timely manner, or at all. Even if we do launch new products and services, they might not be utilized by our agents at the rate we expect, or at all. While we believe these investments help our agents succeed, there can be no guarantee that we will retain our agents across the markets we serve, nor that our investments will lead to increased utilization of our platform or that increased utilization of our platform will drive increased productivity for our agents. Additionally, at times, we expand our technology offerings by acquiring value-add real estate technology companies. For example, in 2021, we acquired Glide, a real estate technology company, that enabled us to provide digital real estate forms, e-signatures and related products to our agents. While we think these strategic acquisitions expand our capabilities into critical components of the transaction, our agents may not value these additions and may not utilize them at the rate we expect. 16 Table of Contents Our continued growth depends on our ability to attract highly-qualified agents in each of the markets we serve and, once they are on our platform, to retain them and to help them expand their businesses by utilizing our platform and technology offerings. If we fail to identify and invest in our platform and expand our technology offerings via acquisitions in the way that creates value for our agents and their clients, we may fail to attract new agents, retain current agents or increase agents productivity through utilization of our platform, which may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to expand our brokerage and adjacent services businesses and offer additional adjacent services may not be successful. We have grown our brokerage business rapidly since our inception. We plan to continue our expansion of the brokerage business; however, there is no guarantee that we will be successful or will expand at the rate that we anticipate. For additional risks related to our rapid growth, see risk factor entitled We have experienced rapid growth since inception which may not be indicative of our future growth. We expect that, in the future, even if our revenue increases, our rate of growth may decline. In addition, in 2018, we entered into the adjacent services market and have expanded our adjacent services offerings to include title and escrow and mortgage origination services in certain markets. We think that the synergies between these adjacent services and our brokerage business increase transparency and deliver a more integrated closing process for agents clients and thus, provides additional value to our agents. However, currently, our adjacent services are available only in certain markets and utilization rates remain low. For example, our title and escrow services were utilized on a mid-single digit percentage of our Total Transactions in the fourth quarter of 2021. If we are unable to convince our agents to recommend our adjacent services to their clients because of our agents pre-existing relationships with third party adjacent service providers then our revenues from adjacent services will not grow as quickly as we expect. Further, in order for us to be successful in the adjacent services market, we will need to continue to expand these services in other markets and encourage our agents to utilize the services in the new markets. If we are not successful, these services may not result in additional value to our agents and we may not realize the expected benefits (including anticipated revenue), which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, while we plan to expand our adjacent services to other offerings, there is no guarantee that we will do so or be successful. We may not realize the expected benefits from our mortgage joint venture. We and Guaranteed Rate, which is one of the nations largest retail mortgage companies, by and through our respective subsidiaries, formed OriginPoint, a mortgage origination company. OriginPoint is structured as a non-exclusive joint venture, where we hold a 49.9% equity interest and certain governance rights related to the joint venture, including representation on the management committee. We may not realize the expected benefits (including anticipated revenue) from this new joint venture. The mortgage industry is inherently cyclical in nature and volatile and, as discussed in this Annual Report, is subject to many of the same factors that affect our real estate brokerage and title and escrow services, including regulatory changes, changes in mortgage underwriting standards, increases in mortgage interest rates, other changes in market conditions, consumer trends, high levels of competition and decreases in operating margins. Any one of these factors could adversely affect the mortgage industry and our new joint venture in a material way. The benefits of OriginPoint will depend, in part, on the successful partnership between us and Guaranteed Rate and the successful day-to-day operation of the business by OriginPoints management. Guaranteed Rate acts in a capacity as a service provider, providing certain services to support OriginPoints day-to-day operations. OriginPoints management may make decisions which adversely impact the joint venture. Additionally, the joint venture is non-exclusive and Guaranteed Rate may decide to focus on and pursue opportunities outside of the joint venture. As a result, the services 17 Table of Contents which Guaranteed Rate will be engaged to provide to OriginPoint may deteriorate necessitating OriginPoint to make alternative arrangements. In addition, OriginPoint or Guaranteed Rate could face operational or liquidity risks, such as litigation or regulatory investigations. Even though we hold a minority ownership interest in the joint venture, improper actions by OriginPoint or Guaranteed Rate may lead to direct claims against us based on theories of vicarious liability, negligence, joint operations and joint employer liability, which, if determined adversely, could increase costs, negatively impact our reputation and subject us to liability for their actions. Additionally, in the event that we have a disagreement with Guaranteed Rate with respect to a particular issue or as to the management or conduct of the business, we may not be able to resolve such disagreement in our favor. Any such disagreement could have a material adverse effect on our interest in or the business of the joint venture and may consume management time and other resources to negotiate and resolve. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on OriginPoints results of operations and financial condition and result in us not being able to realize the expected benefits from the new joint venture. We have experienced rapid growth since inception which may not be indicative of our future growth. Additionally, if we fail to manage our continuous rapid growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We have experienced rapid growth since our founding in 2012. We expect that, in the future, even if our revenue increases, our rate of growth may decline. In any event, we may not be able to grow as fast or at all if we do not, among other things: attract high-performing agents in markets we currently serve; expand to new domestic markets; improve our software and develop additional functionality; develop a broader set of solutions; execute opportunistic mergers and acquisitions; and expand internationally. To preserve our market position, we may expand organically or acquire brokerages in new markets more quickly than we would if we did not operate in such a highly competitive industry. Expanding into new markets can be challenging as some new markets have very distinctive characteristics, some of which may be unanticipated or unknown to us. These differences may result in greater recruitment and transaction costs that may result in those markets being less profitable for us than those that we currently operate in, and may slow the rate of our revenue growth. Additionally, to support our continuous rapid growth, we must continue to improve our management resources and our operational and financial controls and systems, and these improvements may increase our expenses more than anticipated and result in a more complex business. Our continuous success will depend on our ability to plan for and manage our rapid growth effectively. If we fail to do so, we may be unable to execute our business plan, which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. From time to time, we may make decisions, such as more conservatively managing our expense structure, that could have a negative effect on our near-term growth rates, if we believe those decisions will improve our operating results or profitability in the near- or long-term. These decisions may not be consistent with the expectations of investors and may not produce the benefits that we expect, in which case our business could be materially and adversely affected. We have incurred net losses on an annual basis since we were founded and we may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons. As a result, we may not achieve and, if achieved, may not sustain profitability. We incurred net losses of $494.1 million, $270.2 million and $388.0 million for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2021. We expect to continue to make future investments in developing and expanding our business, including investing in technology, recruitment and training, expanding our adjacent services and pursuing strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business and may continue to result in net losses for our business. Additionally, we may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including: declines in U.S. residential real estate transaction volumes; 18 Table of Contents our expansion into new markets, for which we typically incur more significant losses immediately following entry; increased competition in the U.S. residential real estate industry; increased costs to attract and retain agents; increased research and development costs to continue to advance the capabilities of our platform; changes in our fee structure or rates; our failure to realize anticipated efficiencies through our technology and business model; failure to execute our growth strategies; increased sales and marketing costs; hiring additional personnel to support our overall growth; and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, and other unknown factors. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve and, if achieved, may not sustain profitability. Moreover, as we continue to invest in our business, we expect expenses to continue to increase in the near term. If we fail to manage our expenses or grow our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with our investments, our business may be harmed. Because we expect to incur significant costs and expenses to grow our business, and we may incur expenses prior to generating incremental revenue with respect thereto, we may find that these efforts are more expensive than we currently anticipate or that these efforts may not result in an increase in revenue to offset these expenses, which would further increase our losses. We anticipate using cash to satisfy tax withholding obligations that will arise in connection with the monthly net settlements of RSU awards granted to our employees, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, if we choose to implement a sell-to-cover settlement method in the future, additional shares will be issued and sold in the market at settlement to cover tax withholding obligations, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Prior to December 2020, we granted RSU awards to our employees that vest based upon the satisfaction of both a service-based condition and a liquidity event-based condition. The service-based vesting condition for these awards is generally satisfied over four years. The liquidity event-based vesting condition is satisfied on the occurrence of a qualifying event and was satisfied upon the completion of our IPO in April of 2021. Starting in December 2020, we grant RSU awards to our employees that vest based on the satisfaction of a service-based condition only, which is generally satisfied over four years. Under U.S. tax laws, tax withholding obligations for RSUs arise in connection with their settlement on the settlement date. Our current settlement practice is to net settle vested RSUs, meaning we withhold a certain number of shares of our Class A common stock that would otherwise be issued with respect to the settling RSU awards and satisfy tax withholding obligations on behalf of our employees by remitting the appropriate taxes to the relevant tax authorities. We refer to this as net settlement. 19 Table of Contents During the year ended December 31, 2021, we net settled all RSUs granted to our employees that had vested as of December 31, 2021 (the 2021 net settlements). In connection with the 2021 net settlements, we issued an aggregate of 7.1 million shares of Class A common stock to our employees and withheld an aggregate of 4.9 million shares of our Class A common stock to satisfy $62.4 million of tax withholding obligations on behalf of our employees. We plan to continue to net settle vested RSUs granted to our employees on a monthly basis. Accordingly, we will continue to fund tax withholding obligations on behalf of our employees and offset such funding by withholding shares of Class A common stock, which we would otherwise be obligated to deliver to them. The future monthly net settlements may result in a significant use of our cash and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. In the future, we may also choose to implement a sell-to-cover settlement method to satisfy tax withholding obligations for our employees, under which shares of our Class A common stock with a market value equivalent to the tax withholding amount would be sold on behalf of the employees holding RSU awards upon settlement to satisfy their tax withholding obligations and the cash proceeds from such sales will be remitted by us to the relevant tax authorities. Such sales would not result in our use of additional cash to satisfy the tax withholding obligations for RSU awards, but would result in dilution to our stockholders. Additionally, we also grant RSU awards to our agents. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we settled all RSUs granted to our agents that had vested as of December 31, 2021 and issued an aggregate of 3.8 million shares of our Class A common stock to them. Because our agents are independent contractors, we do not have tax withholding obligations, and accordingly, we did not, and will not in the future, use any of our cash to pay their tax withholding obligations. However, issuance of shares of Class A common stock at settlement has resulted, and will result in the future, in dilution to our stockholders. We plan to continue to settle vested RSUs granted to our agents on the monthly basis. The extent of the future impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial results will depend largely on future developments, which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. The extent of the future impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial results will depend largely on future developments, including emergence of new variants of the COVID-19 virus, the severity and transmission rates of the new variants, the duration and extent of the spread of the virus (including new variants), the timing, availability and effectiveness of vaccines (including booster shots) and vaccination rates, the prevalence of local, regional and national restrictions and regulatory orders in response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the extent and effectiveness of containment actions taken, all of which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. Additionally, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, a significant impact around the world, including the U.S., and it is difficult to assess or predict its future impact on the U.S. and global economy. As a result, a number of macroeconomic factors related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, including but not limited to the increase in unemployment rates and stagnant or declining wages, loss of consumer confidence in the economy and recessionary conditions, lower yields on individuals investment portfolios or volatility and declines in the stock market, lower rental prices in certain markets reducing demand to purchase homes, more stringent mortgage financing conditions, including increased down payment requirements and volatility in the mortgage interest rates, inflation rate and pressures, had, and could have in the future, an adverse impact on consumer spending, including on residential real estate transactions, and resulted, and may in the future result, in changes to home purchasing, selling, renting and financing trends. For example, in the second quarter of 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic significantly and adversely affected residential real estate transaction volume. During that time, in addition to general macroeconomic instability, many governmental authorities put in place limitations on in-person activities related to the sale of residential real estate, such as prohibitions or restrictions on in-home showings, inspections and appraisals, and availability or hours of local real property documentation searches and new recordings. While these measures were largely lifted later in 2020 and the overall residential real estate transaction volume for 2020 was not adversely impacted over the longer term, there is no guarantee that in the future, the outcomes will be similar. 20 Table of Contents Our success depends on a high volume of residential real estate transactions throughout the markets in which we operate. This transaction volume affects all of the ways that we generate revenue, including generation of commissions from transactions executed by our agents, the number of transactions our title and escrow business closes and the number of mortgages OriginPoint originates. If the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has an adverse impact on the volume of residential real estate transactions, our business and financial results in future periods could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, many of our employees continue to work remotely, which may adversely affect our efficiency and morale. As we continue to evaluate our return to work approach, it will likely vary across geographies depending on local health rules and regulations. Any future part- or full-time re-opening could expose our employees to health risks and could result in additional costs to us. Further, certain employees may not agree with our return to work approach and as a result may seek employment elsewhere. We operate in highly competitive markets and we may be unable to compete successfully against competitors. We operate in a competitive and fragmented industry, and we expect competition to continue to increase. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including the following: our ability to attract and retain agents; the timing and market acceptance of our products and services for our agents and their clients, including new products and services offered by us or our competitors; the attractiveness of our adjacent services for agents as well as their clients; our ability to attract top engineering talent to further develop and improve our technology to support our business model; and our brand strength relative to our competitors. Our business model depends on our ability to continue to attract agents and their clients to our platform, and to enhance their engagement in a cost-effective manner. We face competition on a national level and in each of our markets from traditional real estate brokerage firms, some of which operate nationally and others that are limited to a specific region or regions. We also face competition from real estate technology companies, including a growing number of Internet-based brokerages and others who operate with a variety of business models. New entrants, particularly smaller companies offering point solutions, continue to join our market categories. However, our existing and potential competitors include real estate technology companies and real estate brokerages that operate, or could develop, national and/or local businesses offering similar services, including real estate brokerage, title insurance and escrow services and mortgage origination services, to home buyers or sellers. Several of these real estate technology companies which may enter our market categories could have significant competitive advantages, including better name recognition, greater resources, lower cost of funds and additional access to capital, and more types of offerings than we currently do. These companies may also have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we do. In addition, these competitors could devote greater financial, technical and other resources than we have available to develop, grow or improve their businesses. Because a material portion of our business is concentrated in certain geographic areas and high-end markets, any adverse economic, real estate or business conditions in these geographic areas and/or impacting high-end markets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A material portion of our real estate brokerage offices and agents are concentrated in certain geographic areas, such as Southern California, Northern California and the tri-state area. Local and regional real estate and economic conditions could differ materially from prevailing conditions in other parts of the U.S. While overall the U.S. real estate market could be performing well, a downturn in a geographic area where we have a material presence could result in a decline in our gross commission income and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 21 Table of Contents Additionally, a material portion of our real estate transactions take place in high-end markets. Any downturn in high-end markets could result in a decline in our gross commission income and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Further, if there is a downturn in high-end markets, our agents may shift to transactions involving middle and lower range market prices, which, absent an increase in the number of transactions, could result in a decline in our gross commission income. Monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is significantly affected by the monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. These policies regulate the supply of money and credit in the U.S. and impact the real estate market through their effect on interest rates. Increases in mortgage rates adversely impact housing affordability and we have in the past been and could in the future be negatively impacted by a rising interest rate environment. Changes in prevailing interest rates or U.S. monetary policies that affect interest rates may have an adverse impact on our business. For example, a rise in mortgage rates could result in decreased sale transaction volume if potential home sellers choose to stay with their lower mortgage rate rather than sell their existing home and pay a higher mortgage rate with the purchase of a new home or, similarly, if potential home buyers choose to rent rather than pay higher mortgage rates. Additionally, during late 2021 and early 2022 interest rates rose 60 basis points for the average nonconforming mortgage and, as a result, the number of purchase and refinance mortgages is expected to fall 35% during 2022, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. If mortgage rates continue to rise, the growth of our mortgage origination business would be adversely impacted. This volume decline would be felt across the mortgage industry, with varying impact on our competitors depending on their origination strategy and channel mix, but the increased competition for the remaining loan volume could have the effect of significantly reduced revenues and profit margins or could require us to increase sales and marketing expenditures as we seek to build out the business. Changes in the Federal Reserve Boards policies, the interest rate environment, and the mortgage market are beyond our control, are difficult to predict, and could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any decrease in our gross commission income or the percentage of commissions that we collect may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business model depends upon our agents success in generating gross commission income, which we collect and from which we pay them net commissions. Real estate commission rates vary somewhat by market, and although historical rates have been relatively consistent over time across markets, there can be no assurance that prevailing market practice will not change in a given market, or across the industry, in the future. Customary commission rates could change due to market forces locally or industry-wide, as well as due to regulatory or legal changes in such markets, including as a result of litigation or enforcement actions. In addition, in July of 2021, the Justice Department announced that it was withdrawing from the nation- wide antitrust settlement with the National Association of Realtors, (NAR) that was entered into in November 2020 to allow for a broader investigation of NARs rules and conduct, and there additionally have been recent statements and actions by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the executive branch focused on increasing competition. We cannot predict the outcome of the new investigation or the executive branch focus on this issue, but it may result in industry-wide regulatory action, the result of which may cause commission rates to decrease over time. If any such decrease in commission rates were to occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely impacted. 22 Table of Contents In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the percentage of commission income that we collect from our agents for their use of our platform. If industry conditions change such that other platforms offer similar technologies to ours at a lower price or for free, we may be forced to reduce the percentage of commissions that we collect from our agents, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our quarterly results and other operating metrics may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes these metrics difficult to predict. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year in the future for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control and difficult to predict. As a result, you should not rely upon our historical results of operations as indicators of future performance. Numerous factors can influence our results of operations, including: our ability to attract and retain agents; our ability to continuously innovate, improve and expand our platform; changes in interest rates or mortgage underwriting standards; the actions of our competitors; costs and expenses related to the strategic acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures; increases in and timing of operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, including with respect to real estate commission rates and disclosures; system failures or outages, or actual or perceived breaches of security or privacy, and the costs associated with preventing, responding to, or remediating any such outages or breaches; adverse judgments, settlements, or other litigation-related costs and the fees associated with investigating and defending claims; the overall tax rate for our business and the impact of any changes in tax laws or judicial or regulatory interpretations of tax laws, which are recorded in the period such laws are enacted or interpretations are issued and may significantly affect the effective tax rate of that period; the application of new or changing financial accounting standards or practices; and changes in regional or national business or macroeconomic conditions, including as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which may impact the other factors described above. In addition, our results of operations are tied to certain key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures that have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. As a result of such variability, our historical performance, including from recent quarters or years, may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance and period-to-period comparisons also may not be meaningful. 23 Table of Contents The loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business. Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team, including, in particular, Robert Reffkin, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our success also depends on our ability to manage effective transitions when management team members pursue other opportunities. In addition, our business depends on our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain a large number of skilled employees across our company. Furthermore, much of our key technology and processes are custom-made for our business by our personnel. The loss of key engineering, product development, operations, marketing, sales and support, finance and legal personnel could also adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts they have undertaken and to execute our business plan, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. In addition, we currently do not have key person insurance on any of our employees. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous software and other technology companies. To attract and retain key personnel, we incur significant costs, including salaries and benefits and equity incentives. Even so, these measures may not be enough to attract and retain the personnel we require to operate our business effectively. Actions by our agents or employees could adversely affect our reputation and subject us to liability. Our success depends on the performance of our agents and employees. Although our agents are independent contractors, if they were to provide lower quality services to their clients in a given market or overall, our image and reputation could be adversely affected. In addition, if our agents make fraudulent claims about properties they show, if their transactions lead to allegations of errors or omissions, if they violate certain regulations, or if they engage in self-dealing or do not disclose conflicts of interest to their clients, we could also be subject to litigation and regulatory claims which, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if an agent were to recommend that a client use an escrow service in which the agent had an ownership interest but failed to disclose that interest to the client and to us, we could see our reputation tarnished and be held liable for the agents failure to disclose that interest under the Real Estate Settlement Proceeding Act. Similarly, we are subject to risks of loss or reputational harm in the event that any of our employees violate applicable laws, as such laws may harm our agents businesses or impact clients. We may be subject to claims relating to the operations of our title and escrow businesses and incur losses resulting from fraud, defalcation or misconduct. Our title companies issue title insurance policies on behalf of title insurance underwriters. These policies provide coverage for real property to lenders and buyers. The title underwriter is typically liable for the payment of claims under title policies, but we may be subject to liability and losses if we are negligent. Our title companies and our escrow company also provide escrow and closing services. These services facilitate the transfer of ownership of real property. We may be subject to liability and losses arising from the provision of these services. For example, we may be subject to liability and losses if we improperly handle consumer or other third-party funds. We carry errors and omissions insurance for errors made by our title and escrow companies, but insurance carriers may dispute coverage for various reasons, there can be no assurance that all claims will be covered, and losses could potentially exceed our coverage. Fraud, defalcation and misconduct by employees and others are also risks inherent in our title and escrow business. While we have insurance to protect us against some of these types of losses as well, we cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate. To the extent that any loss or theft of funds related to our title and escrow companies substantially exceeds our insurance coverage, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we pursue acquisitions that are not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. We continue to evaluate a wide array of potential strategic opportunities, including acquisitions and acqui-hires of businesses in new geographies. We sometimes engage in acquisitions of brokerage businesses to provide us with greater access to a given market. At times, we may also look to acquisitions to provide us with additional technology to further enhance our platform and accelerate our ability to offer new products or to expand our adjacent services offerings. For example, in 2021, in addition to acquiring a number of smaller brokerage companies, we acquired all or majority control of four title and escrow businesses to cover additional markets served by our agents. We also acquired Glide, a real estate technology company, that 24 Table of Contents enabled us to provide digital real estate forms, e-signatures and related products to our agents, as well as non-Compass agents. These strategic acquisitions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations, but there can be no guarantee that they will result in the intended benefits to our business, and we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired agents, businesses, products, or technology, or accurately forecast the financial impact of a strategic acquisition. In addition, integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, particularly in new markets or with respect to new adjacent services. Our failure to address risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future strategic acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such strategic acquisitions, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Strategic acquisitions may require us to issue additional equity securities, spend a substantial portion of our available cash, or incur debt or liabilities, amortize expenses related to intangible assets, or incur write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our then-current stockholders. A change in mortgage underwriting standards could reduce the ability of homebuyers to access the credit markets on reasonable terms, or at all. During the past several years, many lenders have significantly tightened their underwriting standards and many alternative mortgage products have become less available in the marketplace. In addition, certain lenders added new criteria or approvals necessary to underwrite mortgages in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Underwriting standards could be changed or tightened as a result of changes in regulations, including regulations enacted to increase guarantee fees of federally-insured mortgages. More stringent mortgage underwriting standards could adversely affect the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes in order to purchase new homes. This may result in the decreased number of real estate transactions that our agents execute and our title and escrow businesses close and in the decreased number of mortgages that OriginPoint originates, all of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Potential reform of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or certain federal agencies or a reduction in U.S. government support for the housing market could have an adverse impact on the operations of our mortgage origination business. Numerous pieces of legislation seeking various types of changes for government sponsored entities have been introduced in Congress to reform the U.S. housing finance market including among other things, changes designed to reduce government support for housing finance and the winding down of the federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac over a period of years. Legislation, if enacted, or additional regulation which curtails Fannie Maes and/or Freddie Macs activities and/or results in the wind down of the federal conservatorship of these entities could increase mortgage costs and could result in more stringent underwriting guidelines imposed by lenders or cause other disruptions in the mortgage industry. Changes in other legislation, policies or guidelines such as the Fair Housing Act, USDA guidelines or Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSE) may impact the way we service and originate GSE and U.S. government agency loans. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the housing market in general and the operations of our mortgage origination business. We may not be able to maintain or establish relationships with multiple listing services and third-party listing services, which could limit the information we are able to provide to our agents and their clients. Our ability to attract agents to our platform and to appeal to their clients depends upon providing a robust number of listings. To provide these listings in our services, in addition to the information provided by our agents, we maintain relationships with multiple listing services and other third-party listing providers. Certain of our agreements with real estate listing providers are short-term agreements that may be terminated with limited notice. The loss of some of our existing relationships with listing providers, whether due to termination of agreements or otherwise, changes to our rights to use listing data, or an inability to continue to add new listing providers, may cause our listing data to omit information important to our agents or their clients. Any loss or changes to our rights to use listing data or add listings, or any similar loss of rights in the markets we serve, could negatively impact agent and client confidence in the listing data we provide and reduce our ability to attract and retain agents, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations and result in the loss of critical and confidential information or litigation or claims arising from such incidents, any of which may adversely impact our reputation and business, financial condition and results of operations. We face growing risks and costs related to cybersecurity threats to our operations, our data and agent and client data, including but not limited to: the failure or significant disruption of our operations from various causes, including human error, computer malware, ransomware, insecure software and systems, zero-day vulnerabilities, threats to or disruption of third-party vendors who provide critical services, or other events related to our critical information technologies and systems; the increasing level and sophistication of cybersecurity attacks, including distributed denial of service attacks, data theft, fraud or malicious acts on the part of trusted insiders, social engineering (including phishing attempts), or other unlawful tactics aimed at compromising the systems and data of our agents and their clients (including through systems not directly controlled by us, such as those maintained by our agents and third-party service providers); and the reputational and financial risks associated with a loss of data or material data breach (including unauthorized access to our proprietary business information or personal information of our agents and their clients), the transmission of computer malware, or the diversion of sale transaction closing funds. Global cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems via viruses, ransomware and other malicious software, to phishing, or to advanced and targeted attempts to breach systems launched by individuals, organizations or sponsored nation state actors. These attacks may be directed at our business, our employees, agents, and clients and third-party service providers. An attack, threat or breach of one system can impact one or more other systems. In the ordinary course of our business, we and our third-party service providers, our employees, agents and clients may collect, store and transmit sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and intellectual property and that of our agents and their clients as well as personal information, sensitive financial information and other confidential information of our employees and agents and our agents clients. Our agents use of our platform to access and store data presents us with uncertainties and risks, as they may accidentally or deliberately cause private information to be transmitted through unsecure channels which may lead to breaches or other leaks of such information. Additionally, we increasingly rely on third-party data processing, storage providers, and critical infrastructure services, including cloud solution providers. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information are critical to our operations and with respect to information collected and stored by our third-party service providers, we are reliant upon their security procedures, controls and adherence to our agreements. A breach or attack affecting one of our third-party service providers or partners could adversely impact our business even if we do not control the service that is attacked. Moreover, the real estate industry is actively targeted by cybersecurity threat actors which attempt to conduct electronic fraudulent activity (such as business email compromise), security breaches and similar attacks directed at participants in real estate services transactions. In common with others in our industry, we manage and hold confidential personal information, including potentially sensitive personal information belonging to employees and agents or their clients or other individuals with whom agents transact, in the operation of our platform. Accordingly, we have been and continue to be subject to a range of cyber-attacks, such as email-based phishing attacks on our agents. Historically, these attacks have not been material either individually or in the aggregate. We have enhanced our security measures and continue to invest in order to mitigate the risk of similar attacks in the future. However, there can be no assurance that our enhanced security measures, which are also partially dependent upon the security practices of our agents, their clients and participants will timely detect or prevent other cyber-attacks in the future. Cyber-attacks could give rise to the loss of significant 26 Table of Contents amounts of agents data and other sensitive information. In addition, cyber-attacks could give rise to the disablement of our information technology systems used to service our agents. Such threats to our business may be wholly or partially beyond our control as our employees and agents and our agents clients and other third-party service providers may use e-mail, computers, smartphones and other devices and systems that are outside of our security control environment. In addition, real estate transactions involve the transmission of funds by the buyers and sellers of real estate and consumers or other service providers selected by the consumer that may be the subject of direct cyber-attacks that result in the fraudulent diversion of funds, notwithstanding efforts we have taken to educate consumers with respect to these risks. In addition, the increasing prevalence and sophistication of cyber-attacks as well as the evolution of cyber-attacks and other efforts to breach or disrupt our systems or those of our employees, agents, agents clients, and third-party service providers, has led and will likely continue to lead to increased costs to us with respect to identifying, protecting, detecting, responding, recovering, mitigating, insuring against and remediating these risks, as well as any related attempted or actual fraud. Moreover, we are required to comply with growing regulations at the local, state and federal level in the U.S., and in other countries where we have operations, that regulate cybersecurity, privacy and related matters, some of which impose steep fines and penalties for noncompliance. Any further expansion domestically or internationally will necessarily subject us to additional, and possibly more stringent, regulations and penalty structures. While we, our employees, our agents, and agents clients have experienced and expect to continue to experience these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date has been material to our business. Although we employ measures to identify, protect, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, penetration testing, vulnerability assessments, and maintenance of backup and protective systems), and conduct diligence on the security measures employed by key third-party service providers, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in harm to confidentiality, integrity, and availability of critical systems, data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties, including personal information and financial information) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include regulatory violations of applicable U.S. and international privacy and other laws, reputational damage, loss of market value, litigation with third parties (which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability), diminution in the value of the products and services we provide to our agents and their clients, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs (that may include liability for stolen assets or information), any of which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our competitiveness and business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for data security liabilities actually incurred, will cover any indemnification claims against us relating to any incident, will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to losses if banks do not honor our escrow and trust deposits. We act as escrow agents for certain clients of our agents. As an escrow agent, we receive money from clients to hold until certain conditions are satisfied. Upon the satisfaction of those conditions (in most cases as confirmed by such clients, lenders, their respective agents or other third parties), we release the money to the appropriate party. We deposit this money with various depository banks and while these deposits are not assets of our business (and therefore excluded from our consolidated balance sheet), we remain contingently liable for the disposition of these deposits. These escrow and trust deposits totaled $172.1 million and $46.1 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. A significant amount of these deposits held by depository banks may be in excess of the federal deposit insurance limit. If any of our depository banks were to become unable to honor any portion of our deposits, clients could seek to hold us responsible for such amounts and, if the clients prevailed in their claims, we could be subject to significant losses. 27 Table of Contents A significant adoption by consumers of alternatives to full-service agents could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant change in consumer sales that eliminates or minimizes the role of the agent in the real estate transaction process could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These options may include direct-buyer companies (also called iBuyers) that purchase directly from the seller at below-market rates in exchange for speed and convenience and then resell them shortly thereafter at market prices, and discounters who reduce the role of the agent in order to offer sellers a low commission or a flat fee while giving rebates to buyers. Consumer preferences regarding buying or selling houses and financing their home purchase will determine if these models reduce or replace the long-standing preference for full-service agents. We plan to expand into international markets, which will expose us to significant risks. A component of our future growth strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and establishment of an agent base internationally. We are continuing to adapt and develop strategies to address international markets, but there is no guarantee that such efforts will have the desired effect. For example, we may need to establish relationships with new partners or acquire businesses in order to expand into certain countries, and if we fail to identify, establish, and maintain such relationships or successfully identify and acquire businesses, we may be unable to execute on our expansion plans. Although we maintain engineering and related operations in India, none of our agents are located outside of the U.S. and we currently do not engage in any non-U.S. real property transactions, except for de-minimis transactions through partnerships with local non-U.S. brokerages. We expect that our international activities will grow in the future as we pursue opportunities in international markets, which may require significant dedication of management attention and will require significant upfront investment. Our current and future international business and operations involve a variety of risks, including the need to adapt and localize our platform for specific countries; unexpected changes in trade relations, regulations, or laws; new, evolving, and more stringent regulations relating to privacy and data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in Europe and Canada; difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, and regulatory systems; increased travel, real estate, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with international operations; and regulations, adverse tax burdens, and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash. If we invest substantial time and resources to establish international operations and are unable to do so successfully or in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our management team is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to deliver an attestation report on the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting. An adverse report may be issued in the event our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. 28 Table of Contents When evaluating our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify material weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the applicable deadline imposed upon us for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. For example, in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for 2020 and prior years, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Those material weaknesses have not yet been fully remediated and the same weaknesses remained at the time of the preparation of our financial statements for 2021. For additional information, see risk factor entitled We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting and if our remediation of such material weaknesses is not effective, or if we fail to develop and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable laws and regulations could be impaired. If we identify any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future or are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations or be required to restate our financial statements for prior periods. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting will not prevent or detect all errors and fraud. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected. If there are material weaknesses or failures in our ability to meet any of the requirements related to the maintenance and reporting of our internal control, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and that could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. In addition, we could become subject to investigations by the applicable stock exchange, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional management attention and which could adversely affect our business. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting and if our remediation of such material weaknesses is not effective, or if we fail to develop and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable laws and regulations could be impaired. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for 2020 and prior years, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Those material weaknesses have not yet been fully remediated and the same weaknesses remained at the time of the preparation of our financial statements for 2021. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We did not design or maintain an effective control environment as we lacked sufficient oversight of activities related to our internal controls over financial reporting due to a lack of an appropriate level of experience and training commensurate with public company requirements. This material weakness resulted in our identification of the following additional material weaknesses: We did not maintain formal accounting policies and procedures, and did not design, document and maintain controls related to substantially all of our business processes to achieve complete, accurate and timely financial accounting, reporting and disclosures, including controls over account reconciliations, segregation of duties and the preparation and review of journal entries; and We did not design and maintain effective controls over information technology, or IT, general controls for information systems and applications that are relevant to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Specifically, we did not design and maintain (i) program change management controls to ensure that IT program and data changes affecting financial IT applications and underlying accounting records are identified, tested, authorized and implemented appropriately that are relevant to the preparation of our financial statements, (ii) user access controls to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and that adequately restrict user and privileged access to financial 29 Table of Contents applications, programs, and data to appropriate personnel, (iii) computer operations controls to ensure that critical batch jobs are monitored and data backups are authorized and monitored, and (iv) testing and approval of controls for program development to ensure that new software development is aligned with business and IT requirements. These IT deficiencies, when aggregated, could impact effective segregation of duties as well as the effectiveness of IT-dependent controls that could result in misstatements potentially impacting all financial statement accounts and disclosures that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, our management has determined these deficiencies in the aggregate constitute a material weakness. None of the control deficiencies described above resulted in a material misstatement to our annual consolidated financial statements. However, each of the material weaknesses described above could result in a misstatement of one or more account balances or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement to the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected, and, accordingly, we determined that these control deficiencies constitute material weaknesses. To address our material weaknesses, we have added personnel and engaged an external advisor to assist with evaluating and documenting the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and assisting with the remediation of deficiencies, including implementing new controls and processes. We intend to continue to take steps to remediate the material weaknesses described above through hiring additional personnel with public company experience, and further evolving our accounting and business processes related to internal controls over financial reporting. We will not be able to fully remediate these material weaknesses until these steps have been completed and have been operating effectively for a sufficient period of time. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date, and actions we may take in the future, will be sufficient to remediate the control deficiencies that led to our material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or that they will prevent or avoid potential future material weaknesses. Our current controls and any new controls that we develop may become inadequate because of changes in conditions in our business. Further, weaknesses in our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting may be discovered in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our annual or interim financial statements. Neither our management nor our independent registered public accounting firm has performed an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the SEC rules because no such evaluation has been required. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting until the filing of our second Annual Report on Form 10-K following our IPO. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our internal controls over financial reporting is documented, designed, or operating. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting also could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual independent registered public accounting firm attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting that we will eventually be required to include in our periodic reports that are filed with the SEC. Ineffective disclosure