Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information. Cybersecurity and Data Privacy Regulations We are subject to a variety of U.S. state laws and regulations relating to our collection, use, and disclosure of data collected from our website and mobile users, and the manner and circumstances under which we or third parties may market and advertise our services to consumers. These laws continue to evolve as various states enact new laws and clarifying regulations, imposing significant and ever-changing privacy and cybersecurity obligations. As a result, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny, additional contractual requirements, and an increase in compliance costs. Some examples of the regulations we are required to comply with include without limitation, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), and other similar state regulations, portions of the GLBA, namely the Safeguards rule, which governs the disclosure and safeguarding of consumer financial information, and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), which restricts certain types of telemarketing calls and the use of auto-dialing systems and prerecorded messages and establishes a national Do-Not-Call registry. The international portion of our affiliate business might also be subject to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is a privacy and security regulation for the European Union. Environmental Regulation Our technology platform operates in a cloud-based model, which gives us an insignificant physical geographical footprint. While we have hundreds of physical offices, we locate them in population centers and they are no larger than needed to service our agents clients' needs. Although environmental regulations do not currently have a material adverse impact on our business and operations, the regulatory landscape is constantly changing and new environmental regulations and reporting requirements could affect our business and cause us to devote additional time and resources to regulatory compliance. For example, California adopted the Climate Corporate Data Accountability Act that will require annual disclosure of certain greenhouse gas emissions and the Climate-Related Financial Risk Act that will require disclosure of certain climate-related financial risks and mitigation measures beginning in 2026, subject to implementing regulations that may impact scope and timing. Other Real Estate Industry Rules Aside from federal, state and local regulations, we are subject to a variety of rules promulgated by trade organizations including the NAR, state and local associations of REALTORS, and MLSs. Generally, as members of these organizations, we are subject to their policies, bylaws, codes of ethics, and fees and rules, which govern our dealings with other members, 10 Table of Contents the public, and clients as well as the manner in which we use and display the organizations brand and services. We have a dedicated team that works with a variety of stakeholders, including our brokers of record, to help manage and comply with these rules and policies. We are also actively engaged in voicing our concerns with certain aspects of these trade organization rules and are working hard to change them to benefit our agents and their clients. Intellectual Property The protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important aspect of our business. We rely upon a combination of trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality procedures, contractual commitments, licenses, domain names, and other legal rights to establish and protect our intellectual property. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements and invention or work product assignment agreements with our officers, employees, agents, contractors, and business partners to control access to, and clarify ownership of, our proprietary information. As of December 31, 2024, we had more than 30 unique trademark registrations and applications in the United States, including registrations for Compass and the Compass logo. We also had 5 unique trademark registrations and applications in certain foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, we are the registered holder of a number of domain names, including compass.com. We continually review our development efforts to assess the existence and patentability of new intellectual property. We intend to continue to evaluate the benefit of patent protection with respect to our technology, and will file additional applications when we believe it will be beneficial. In connection with a recent acquisition, we acquired two patents related to real estate signage. In January 2025, we acquired a company with the exclusive, worldwide right to operate, franchise and license the Christies International Real Estate brand under a trademark license agreement (the License Agreement) with Christie Manson & Woods Limited (CMW). The License Agreement has a 100-year term, which consists of an initial 50-year term ending in 2071 and two 25-year renewal options. We pay royalties to CMW based on a percent of (i) the royalties that we collect from our affiliates (the "affiliate royalties") and (ii) the gross sales commissions attributable to a certain limited number of our owned-brokerage offices that use the Christies International Real Estate brand (the "owned-brokerage royalties"). The owned-brokerage royalties are significantly lower than the affiliate royalties. The aggregate amount of royalties that we are obligated to pay to CMW is subject to a minimum annual fee, which increases over time. The License Agreement is terminable by CMW prior to the end of the license term if certain conditions occur, including but not limited to the following: (1) we breach a material term of the License Agreement and such breach is not cured or reasonably mitigated to Christies satisfaction, (2) we become bankrupt or insolvent, (3) we are acquired or otherwise become controlled by one of Christies competitors or (4) we stop offering products or services using the Christies International Real Estate trademark for a period of six months. Seasonality The residential real estate market is seasonal, which directly impacts our agents businesses and has affected and will continue to affect our business and financial results. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Seasonality and Cyclicality" for additional discussion on the extent to which our business and financial results have been, or may continue to be, impacted by seasonality. Available Information We make available free of charge on our investor relations page on our website, www.compass.com, filings we make with the SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and our Proxy Statements, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. The SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC. From time to time, we also intend to announce material information to the public through the investor relations page on our website, press releases, public conference calls, public webcasts, and our X (formerly Twitter) feed (@Compass), our Facebook page, our LinkedIn page, our Instagram account, our YouTube channel, and Robert Reffkins X feed (@RobReffkin) and Instagram account (@robreffkin). We use these mediums, including our website, to communicate with our stockholders and the public about our company, our product candidates and other matters. It is possible that the information that we make available may be deemed to be material information. We therefore encourage investors and 11 Table of Contents others interested in our Company to review the information that we make available on our website. Further, corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines, board committee charters and code of ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Governance. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, the website referenced in this Annual Report is not incorporated by reference into this filing, and the website address is provided only as an inactive textual reference. Item 1A. Risk Factors. A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as the other information in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below, or of additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our success depends on general economic conditions, the health of the U.S. real estate industry, and risks generally incident to the ownership of residential real estate, and our business may be negatively impacted by economic and industry downturns, including seasonal and cyclical trends, and volatility in the residential real estate market. Our success is impacted, directly and indirectly, by a number of factors related to general economic conditions, the health of the U.S. real estate industry, and risks generally incident to the ownership of residential real estate, many of which are beyond our control, including: adverse changes in local, regional, or national economic conditions, including periods of slow economic growth or recessionary conditions; volatility in the residential real estate industry; seasonal and cyclical trends in the residential real estate industry; changes in real estate market conditions; insufficient or excessive home inventory levels; high mortgage rates and down payment requirements or constraints on the availability of mortgage financing; low levels of consumer confidence in the economy or the residential real estate market; weak credit markets; instability of financial institutions; legislative, regulatory or industry changes; high levels of foreclosure activity; the inability or unwillingness of consumers to enter into sale transactions; a decrease in the affordability of homes including the impact of high mortgage rates, home price appreciation and wage stagnation or wage increases that do not keep pace with inflation; and decreasing home ownership rates, declining demand for real estate and changing social attitudes toward home ownership. As our revenue is primarily driven by sales commissions and transaction fees, any slowdown or decrease in the total number of residential real estate sale transactions executed by agents at our owned-brokerage and our affiliates could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any decrease in the number of transactions our title and escrow business closes and the number of mortgages our mortgage business originates, could further impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. real estate market is significantly affected by the monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, and is particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. and impacts the real estate market through its effect on mortgage interest rates. The Federal Reserve Board took aggressive actions aimed at controlling inflation in 2022 and 2023, including raising the federal funds rate and reducing its holdings of mortgage-backed securities. Rising interest rates in 2022 and 2023 contributed to higher mortgage interest rates, which in turn contributed to a decline in residential real estate home sale transaction volume and inventory constraints. While the Federal Reserve Board shifted its policy in 2024 with three interest rate cuts that altogether shaved a full percentage point off the federal funds rate, the housing market remained under pressure as high mortgage rates and economic volatility continued to shape the landscape. The Federal Reserve Boards summary of economic projections suggests even fewer rate cuts in 2025 than in 2024, and it is also possible that the Federal Reserve Board may hold interest rates steady or may even increase rates if inflation persists. It is also possible that mortgage rates and the long end of the interest rate curve could remain elevated in spite of lower federal funds rates due in part to the high level of treasury securities expected to be issued to fund federal deficits and higher interest rate expenses. Changes in the Federal Reserve Boards policies and other macroeconomic factors affecting mortgage rates are beyond our control, difficult to predict, and 12 Table of Contents could negatively impact the residential real estate market, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. High mortgage rates have contributed to a decline in residential real estate home sale transaction volume and title and escrow and mortgage activity, which has had an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. High mortgage rates have contributed to a decline in residential real estate home sale transaction volume, which has had an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As mortgage rates remain high, potential home sellers are more likely to choose to stay with their lower mortgage rates rather than sell their home and pay a higher mortgage rate with the purchase of another home, or prefer to rent rather than purchase a home. Additionally, the overall affordability of homes generally decreases in a high mortgage rate environment. Both of these trends have contributed to inventory constraints and a decline in home sale transaction volume in recent years. Although inventory has increased recently, affordability and high mortgage rates continue to constrain home sale transaction volume, which we expect to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A decline in home sale transaction volume also has a negative impact on title and escrow activities, which has had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. High mortgage rates have also had an adverse effect on our mortgage business. As mortgage rates remain high, reduced demand for purchase mortgages and refinancing generally results in an increase in competition among loan originators, which has had, and is likely to continue to have, a negative impact on revenue volume and gross profit margin for our mortgage business, which in turn has had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ongoing industry antitrust class action litigation (including the Antitrust Lawsuits filed against us) or any related regulatory activities could result in additional meaningful industry-wide changes and the recent changes and/or any additional meaningful changes could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. The ongoing industry antitrust class action litigation, as well as the Antitrust Lawsuits filed against us (as described in more detail in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report (including any injunctive relief, appeals or settlements), either alone or in combination with related regulatory or governmental actions, or any resulting changes to competitive dynamics or consumer preferences, has resulted in certain industry-wide changes and could result in additional meaningful industry-wide changes, including changes to the broker commission structure and meaningful decreases in the average broker commission rate (including the average buy-side commission rate). Such changes could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations. Any determination by the DOJ or FTC, their state counterparts, state or federal courts, or other governmental bodies that any industry practices have anti-competitive effects could lead to industry investigations, enforcement actions, changes in legislation, regulations, interpretations or regulatory guidance or other legislative or regulatory action or other actions, any of which could potentially result in additional limitations or restrictions on our business, cause material disruption to our business, result in judgments, settlements, penalties or fines (which may be material), or otherwise have a direct or indirect materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any decrease in our gross commission income or the percentage of commissions that we collect may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business model depends upon our agents success in generating gross commission income, which we collect and from which we pay them net commissions. The ongoing industry antitrust class action litigation reinforced the fact that commission rates are negotiable. Additionally, the recent industry-wide practice changes could result in changes to customary commission rates. Any decrease in commission rates could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we collect fees from agents at our owned-brokerage and from our affiliates for use of our technology offerings and other services. If industry conditions change, such that other platforms offer similar technologies to ours at a lower price or for free, or the services we provide become less valuable, we may be forced to lower our fees, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Low home inventory levels may result in insufficient supply, which could negatively impact home sale transaction growth. 13 Table of Contents Home inventory levels have been low in certain markets and price points in recent years, which has caused more homeowners to retain their homes for longer periods of time, driving a negative impact on the volume of home sale transactions closed by agents at our owned-brokerage and our affiliates. This lack of supply has been caused by pressures outside our control, including slow new housing construction, macroeconomic conditions, and real estate industry models that purchase homes for long-term rental or corporate use. Continued low inventory levels have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must carefully manage our expense structure and a failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. The real estate market has experienced high interest rates followed by a material decrease in the number of real estate transactions. We must conservatively manage our cash and expenses in light of these and other negative changes in market conditions. To date, we have done so through reductions in force, changes to our spending approval processes, adjustments to our sales incentives and sales teams, and otherwise by pivoting our focus from growth to profitability and cash flow. Although we expect to continue to make future investments in the development and expansion of our business, we may also undertake further initiatives to restructure our operations to improve operational efficiency. Gaining additional efficiencies may become increasingly difficult over time. In addition, there are one-time restructuring costs and negative impacts on sales growth and company operations relating to restructurings. We may be unable to successfully implement our cost savings strategies as much as is necessary given market conditions. Moreover, since we were founded, we have incurred net losses and have had an accumulated deficit, and may continue to do so, for a number of reasons, including: declines in U.S. residential real estate transaction volumes; changes in general economic conditions; changes in real estate market conditions; expansion into new markets for which we typically incur significant losses immediately following entry; increased competition; increased costs to attract and retain agents at our owned-brokerage; increased costs related to the expansion of our affiliate business; increased costs to hire additional personnel to support our overall growth, for research and development, and for sales and marketing; changes to the customary commission rates; changes in our fee structure or rates; inefficiencies in our technology and business model; failure to execute our growth strategies; and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays. Any or all of the foregoing may cause a material adverse effect on our business. Further, there can be no assurance that our strategic initiatives and cost savings efforts will result in sustained levels of profitability and positive cash flows that we intend or at all. Because a material portion of our business is concentrated in certain geographic areas and high-end markets, any adverse economic, real estate or business conditions in these geographic areas and/or impacting high-end markets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A material portion of our real estate brokerage offices and agents are concentrated in certain geographic areas, such as Southern California, Northern California, Texas and the tri-state area. Local and regional real estate and economic conditions could differ materially from prevailing conditions in other parts of the U.S. While overall the U.S. real estate market could be performing well, a downturn in a geographic area where we have a material presence could result in a decline in our revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Additionally, a material portion of our real estate transactions takes place in high-end markets. Any downturn in high-end markets could result in a decline in our revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Further, if there is a downturn in high-end markets, agents at our owned-brokerage and our affiliates may shift to transactions involving middle and lower range market prices, which, absent a sufficient increase in the number of transactions, could result in a decline in our revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we fail to continuously innovate, improve and expand our technology offerings to create value for agents at our owned-brokerage and our affiliates and their respective clients, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to continuously innovate and improve our technology offerings, including our proprietary technology platform, to provide value to agents at our owned-brokerage and our affiliates and their respective clients. As a result, we have invested significant resources, and plan to continue to invest, though to a lesser degree, additional resources, in research and development to improve and maintain our technology offerings, including our proprietary technology platform, and support our technology infrastructure, which allows us to provide an expanded suite of technology offerings that we believe differentiate us from our competitors. There can be no guarantee that we can continue to launch new products and services in a timely manner, or at all, and even if we do, they might not be utilized by agents at our owned-brokerage or our affiliates at the rate we expect. While we believe our investments help agents at our owned-brokerage and our affiliates succeed, there can be no guarantee that we will retain agents at our owned-brokerage 14 Table of Contents and our affiliates across the markets we serve, nor that our investments will drive increased productivity for agents at our owned-brokerage or our affiliates. Additionally, at times, we expand our technology offerings by acquiring value-add real estate technology companies. While we think these strategic acquisitions expand our capabilities into critical components of the transaction, agents at our owned-brokerage and our affiliates may not value these additions and may not utilize them at the rate we expect. Our continued growth depends on our ability to attract highly-qualified agents at our owned-brokerage and expand our network of affiliates, to retain them and to help them expand their businesses by utilizing our technology offerings. If we do not expand our technology offerings in the way that creates value for agents at our owned-brokerage and our affiliates, it could result in our inability to attract new agents at our owned-brokerage, expand our network of affiliates, retain current agents at our owned-brokerage and renew agreements with our current affiliates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to expand our operations, including our owned-brokerage, our affiliate business and integrated services, and to offer additional integrated services may not be successful. We have grown our owned-brokerage business rapidly since our inception and we recently added an affiliate business. We plan to continue our expansion of our owned-brokerage business and our affiliate business; however, there is no guarantee that we will be successful or will expand at the rate we anticipate. Additionally, we continue to expand our integrated services, which include title and escrow and mortgage. We think that the synergies between these integrated services and our owned-brokerage increase transparency and deliver a more integrated closing process for the clients of our agents at our owned-brokerage. However, currently, our integrated services are available only in certain markets. If we are unsuccessful in expanding these services into other markets, then we may not realize the expected benefits (including anticipated revenue), which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, if our agents do not recommend our integrated services to their clients, then our revenue from integrated services will not grow as quickly as we expect. While we plan to continue to expand our integrated services to other offerings, there is no guarantee that we will do so or be successful, and even if we do, the expansions might be at a slower pace than we anticipate. We may not realize the expected benefits from our mortgage business. We may not realize the expected benefits from our mortgage business, which will depend, in part, on the successful partnership between us and our joint venture partner and the successful day-to-day operation of the business. The services which our joint venture partner is engaged to provide to the mortgage business may deteriorate and cause us to make alternative arrangements. Further, in the event of disagreements with our joint venture partner, we may not be able to resolve such disagreements in our favor, which could have a material adverse effect on our mortgage business. In addition, improper actions taking place at our mortgage business may lead to direct claims against us based on theories of vicarious liability, negligence, joint operations and joint employer liability, which, if determined adversely, could increase costs, negatively impact our reputation and subject us to liability for their actions. Also, our mortgage business is subject to many of the same factors that affect our real estate brokerage and title and escrow services, including: regulatory changes; changes in mortgage underwriting standards; high mortgage rates; changes in real estate market conditions; changes in consumer trends; competition; decreases in operating margins; and changes in economic conditions. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of our mortgage business, which could result in us not being able to realize the expected benefits from this business. We operate in highly competitive markets and we may be unable to compete successfully against competitors. We operate in a competitive and fragmented industry, and we expect competition to continue to increase. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors, including: our ability to attract and retain agents at our owned-brokerage; our ability to expand our affiliate business; the timing and market acceptance of products and services offered by us or our competitors; the attractiveness of our integrated services for agents and their clients; our ability to attract top talent to support our business model; and our brand strength relative to our competitors. Our business model depends on our ability to continue to attract agents at our owned-brokerage and to enhance their engagement in a cost-effective manner, as well as expand our network of affiliates. We face competition nationally, in select international markets and in each of our regional markets from traditional real estate brokerage firms, some of which operate nationally and others that are limited to a specific domestic or international region or regions; from real estate technology companies, including a growing number of Internet-based brokerages and others who operate with a variety of business models; and from new entrants, particularly smaller companies offering point solutions. Some of our competitors 15 Table of Contents could have significant competitive advantages, including better name recognition, greater resources, lower cost of funds and access to additional capital, more product and service offerings, and higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments. If we are not able to continue to attract agents at our owned-brokerage and expand our network of affiliates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to recruit agents at our owned-brokerage and expand our network of affiliates depends on the strength of our reputation and reputation of our brands. We believe that we have developed a strong reputation for helping agents and affiliates succeed on the basis of the technological sophistication of our technology offerings and our ability to offer a wide range of high-quality services. General awareness and the perceived quality and differentiation of our technology offerings, including our Compass platform, are important aspects of our efforts to attract and retain agents at our owned-brokerage and expand our network of affiliates. In addition, our actions and growth are frequently reported in national and regional trade publications and other media, and media coverage of our business can be critical, and may not be fair or accurate. Our reputation may be harmed due to adverse media coverage related to our actions, the actions of agents at our owned-brokerage and our affiliates, or other events, which may cause our ability to attract and retain agents and expand our network of affiliates to suffer. We rely on agents at our owned-brokerage to protect and maintain the quality of the Compass brand, as well as on CMW, who founded, owns and licenses the Christie's International Real Estate brand to us, and our affiliates and their agents to protect and maintain the quality of the Christie's International Real Estate brand. While we try to ensure that our brands' quality is maintained by agents at our owned-brokerage, as well as CMW and our affiliates and their agents, there is no guarantee that they will not take action that may hurt the quality and/or value of the brands and/or our reputation. If we are unable to maintain or enhance agent awareness of our business, or if our reputation and/or brands' quality is damaged in a given market, nationally or internationally, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth in the past, which may not be indicative of our future growth. Additionally, given our continued focus on our expense structure and cost savings efforts, we may not be able to continue to grow our business as fast or at all, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We experienced rapid growth for several years since our founding in 2012 but in recent years, due to market conditions, our decision to conservatively manage our expense structure and focus on cost savings, as well as other factors, our rate of growth has slowed. We may continue to make decisions, such as more conservatively managing our expense structure, that could further slow our growth. In the future, we may not be able to grow as fast as we had in the past or at all. If we experience rapid growth again, given our recent focus on our expense structure and cost savings efforts, we may not be able to scale our business as quickly as we need to in order to take advantage of all the growth opportunities available to us and meet all of the demands of agents at our owned-brokerage and our affiliates. Any failure of or delay in scaling our business timely and efficiently could cause us to miss out on future opportunities, or to cede such opportunities to competitors, reducing our market share. Additionally, to support growth in the future, we must continue to improve our management resources and our operational and financial controls and systems, which may increase our expenses more than anticipated and result in a more complex business. We currently use cash to satisfy payroll tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the monthly net settlements of RSU awards granted to our employees, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. If we instead choose to implement a sell-to-cover settlement method in the future, additional shares will be issued and sold in the market at settlement to cover payroll tax withholding obligations, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Our stock-based compensation primarily consists of granting restricted stock unit (RSU) awards to our employees that vest based on the satisfaction of a service-based condition, which is generally satisfied over four years. Federal, state and local payroll tax withholding obligations for RSUs arise in connection with their settlement to employees. Our current settlement practice is to net settle vested RSUs, meaning that we withhold the equivalent number of RSUs that would otherwise be issued as shares of our Class A common stock in lieu of the amount required to satisfy payroll tax withholding obligations on behalf of our employees by remitting the appropriate taxes to the relevant tax authorities. We refer to this as net settlement. If we continue to net settle vested RSUs granted to our employees on a monthly basis, depending upon the market value of shares of our Class A common stock underlying the RSUs, it may result in a significant use of our cash and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. 16 Table of Contents In the future, we may implement a sell-to-cover settlement method to satisfy payroll tax withholding obligations for our employees, under which shares of our Class A common stock with a market value equivalent to or greater than the tax withholding amounts would be automatically sold by the employees holding RSUs upon settlement to satisfy their payroll tax withholding obligations, and the cash proceeds from such sales will be remitted by us to the relevant tax authorities. Such sales would not result in our use of additional cash to satisfy the payroll tax withholding obligations for RSUs, but would result in greater dilution to our stockholders and increase costs to our employees with RSU awards than the net settlement. Our quarterly results and other operating metrics may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes these metrics difficult to predict. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year in the future for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control and difficult to predict. Factors that can influence our results of operations, include: changes in real estate market conditions; our ability to attract and retain agents at our owned-brokerage; our ability to expand our affiliate business; our ability to continuously innovate, improve, and expand our technology offerings, including our proprietary platform; high mortgage rates; changes in mortgage underwriting standards; the actions of our competitors; costs and expenses related to the strategic acquisitions, partnerships, and joint ventures; increases in and timing of operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; changes in the legislative, regulatory and industry environment; system failures or outages; actual or perceived breaches of security or privacy, and the costs associated with preventing, responding to, or remediating any such outages or breaches; adverse judgments, settlements, or other litigation-related costs and the fees associated with investigating and defending claims; the overall tax rate for our business; the impact of any changes in tax laws or judicial or regulatory interpretations of tax laws, which are recorded in the period such laws are enacted or interpretations are issued and may significantly affect the effective tax rate of that period; the application of new or changing financial accounting standards or practices; and changes in regional, national or international business or macroeconomic conditions. Because our results of operations are tied to certain key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures that have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future, our historical performance, including from recent quarters or years, may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance and period-to-period comparisons may not be meaningful. As such, reliance should not be placed upon our historical results of operations as indicators of future performance. The loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, could harm our business. Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team, including Robert Reffkin, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our success also depends on our ability to manage effective transitions when management team members pursue other opportunities. In addition, our business depends on our ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain a large number of skilled employees across our company. The loss of key engineering, product development, operations, marketing, sales and support, finance and legal personnel could also adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts such individuals have undertaken and to execute our business plan, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. In addition, we do not have key person insurance on any of our employees. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous real estate, software and other technology companies. To attract and retain key personnel, we incur significant costs, including salaries and benefits and equity incentives. Even so, these measures may not be enough to attract and retain the personnel we require to operate our business effectively, and the inability to sufficiently attract and retain required personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. Actions by agents at our owned-brokerage or our affiliates, or by our employees, could adversely affect our reputation and subject us to liability. Our success depends on the performance of agents at our owned-brokerage, employees, and affiliates. Although our agents are independent contractors, if they were to provide lower quality services to their clients, our image and reputation could be adversely affected. In addition, if agents at our owned-brokerage make fraudulent claims about properties they show, their transactions lead to allegations of errors or omissions, they violate certain regulations, including employment laws applicable to the management of their own employees, or they engage in self-dealing or do not disclose conflicts of interest to their clients, we could be subject to litigation and regulatory claims which, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we do not exercise control over the day-to-day operations of our affiliates and they operate independently from us. If our affiliates do not operate their businesses in 17 Table of Contents accordance with our or industry standards, it could adversely impact our reputation. Similarly, we are subject to risks of loss or reputational harm in the event that any of our employees violate applicable laws. We may be subject to losses relating to the operations of our title and escrow businesses as a result of errors, omissions, fraud, defalcation, or other misconduct. Our title companies issue title insurance policies on behalf of title insurance underwriters. These policies provide coverage for real property to lenders and buyers. The title underwriter is typically liable for the payment of claims under title policies, but we may be subject to liability and losses if there are errors or omissions on our part. Some of our title companies and our escrow company also provide escrow and closing services. These services facilitate the transfer of ownership of real property. We may be subject to liability and losses arising from the provision of these services. For example, we may be subject to liability and losses if we improperly handle consumer or other third-party funds. We carry errors and omissions insurance for errors made by our title and escrow companies, but insurance carriers may dispute coverage for various reasons, there can be no assurance that all claims will be covered, and losses could potentially exceed our coverage. Fraud, defalcation, and misconduct by employees and others are also risks inherent in our title and escrow business. To the extent that any loss or theft of funds related to our title and escrow companies substantially exceeds our insurance coverage, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we pursue acquisitions that are not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely affected. From time to time, we evaluate a wide array of potential strategic opportunities, including acquisitions and acqui-hires of businesses in new geographies. We sometimes engage in acquisitions of brokerage businesses to provide us with greater access to a given market. At times, we may also look to acquisitions to provide us with additional technology to further enhance our technology offerings and accelerate our ability to offer new products or to expand our integrated services offerings. These strategic acquisitions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations, but there can be no guarantee that they will result in the intended benefits to our business, and we may not successfully evaluate or utilize the acquired agents, businesses, products, or technology, or accurately forecast the financial impact of a strategic acquisition. We may discover liabilities or deficiencies associated with the companies or assets we acquire that were not identified in advance or for which we are not adequately indemnified by sellers, which may result in significant unanticipated costs. The effectiveness of our due diligence review and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence are dependent upon the accuracy and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by the companies we acquire or their representatives, as well as the limited amount of time in which acquisitions are executed. In addition, integrating an acquired company, business, or technology is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, particularly in new markets or with respect to new integrated services, and we have experienced these difficulties and expenditures in connection with certain of our previous acquisitions. Moreover, the integration of acquisitions requires significant time and resources, and we may not manage these processes successfully. We continue to make investments of resources to support our acquisitions, which we expect will result in significant ongoing operating expenses and may divert resources and management attention from other areas of our business. Our failure to successfully integrate the companies we acquire and address risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future strategic acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such strategic acquisitions, including anticipated synergies and cost savings, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, strategic acquisitions may require us to issue additional equity securities, spend a substantial portion of our available cash, or incur debt or liabilities, amortize expenses related to intangible assets, or incur write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and could result in dilution to our stockholders. A change in mortgage underwriting standards could reduce the ability of homebuyers to access the credit markets on reasonable terms, or at all. During the past several years, many lenders have significantly tightened their underwriting standards and many alternative mortgage products have become less available in the marketplace. In addition, certain lenders added new criteria or approvals necessary to underwrite mortgages in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Underwriting standards could be changed or tightened as a result of changes in regulations, including those enacted to increase guarantee fees of federally-insured mortgages. More stringent mortgage underwriting standards could adversely affect the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes in order to purchase new homes, which may decrease the number of real estate transactions that our agents execute and that our title and escrow businesses close, and may decrease the number of mortgages that our mortgage business originates. Any of these impacts would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain or establish relationships with MLSs and third-party listing providers, which could limit the information we are able to provide to our agents and our agents clients. Our ability to attract agents at our owned-brokerage and to appeal to their clients depends upon our ability to provide a robust number of listings. To provide these listings in our services, in addition to the information provided by our agents, we maintain relationships with MLSs and other third-party listing providers. Certain of our agreements with real estate listing providers are short-term agreements that may be terminated with limited notice. The loss of our existing relationships with these parties, changes to our rights to use listing data, or an inability to continue to add new listing providers may cause our listing data to omit information important to our agents or their clients. Additionally, if the MLSs cease to be the predominant source of listing data, we might not be able to provide comprehensive listing data to our agents and their clients. Any of these events could negatively impact our reputation and agent and client confidence in the listing data we provide and reduce our ability to attract and retain agents, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations and result in the loss of critical and confidential information or claims or litigation arising from such incidents, any of which may adversely impact our reputation and business, financial condition, and results of operations. We face growing risks and costs related to cybersecurity threats to our operations and our data (including agent and client data) including: the failure or significant disruption of our operations from various causes, such as human error, computer malware, ransomware, insecure software and systems, zero-day vulnerabilities, threats to or disruption of third-party service providers who provide critical services, or other events related to our critical information technologies and systems; the increasing level and sophistication of cybersecurity attacks, such as distributed denial of service attacks, data theft, fraud or malicious acts on the part of trusted insiders, social engineering (including phishing attempts or the creation of copycat websites), or other unlawful tactics aimed at compromising the systems and data of our agents and their clients (including through systems not directly controlled by us, such as those maintained by our agents and third-party service providers); and the reputational and financial risks associated with a loss of data or material data breach (including unauthorized access to our proprietary business information or personal information of our agents and their clients), the transmission of computer malware, or the diversion of sale transaction closing funds. Global cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems via viruses, ransomware, and other malicious software, to phishing or advanced and targeted attempts to breach systems launched by individuals, organizations, or sponsored nation state actors. These attacks may be directed at our business, employees, agents, affiliates, third-party service providers, and our agents clients. An attack, threat, or breach of one system can impact one or more other systems. In the ordinary course of our business, we and our third-party service providers, our employees, agents, affiliates and our agents clients may collect, store, and transmit sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and intellectual property and that of our agents and their clients as well as personal information, sensitive financial information, and other confidential information. Our agents use of our platform to access and store data presents us with uncertainties and risks, as they may accidentally or deliberately cause private information to be transmitted through unsecure channels, which may lead to breaches or other leaks of such information. Additionally, we increasingly rely on third-party service providers that provide data processing, data storage, and critical infrastructure services, including cloud solution providers. The secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and, with respect to information collected and stored by our third-party service providers, we are reliant upon their security procedures, controls, and adherence to our agreements. A breach or attack affecting one of our third-party service providers or partners could adversely impact our business, our clients business, and our reputation even if we do not control the service that is attacked. Moreover, the real estate industry is actively targeted by cybersecurity threat actors who attempt to conduct electronic fraudulent activity (such as business email compromise), security breaches, and similar attacks directed at participants in real estate services transactions. In common with others in our industry, we manage and hold confidential personal information in the operation of our platform. Accordingly, we have been and continue to be subject to a range of cyber- 19 Table of Contents attacks, such as the creation of Compass or agent copycat websites, and email and text-based phishing attacks on agents at our owned-brokerage and their clients, as well as our affiliates and their agents. We have enhanced our security measures and continue to invest in these measures to mitigate the risk of new and similar attacks in the future. However, there can be no assurance that our enhanced security measures, which are also partially dependent upon the security practices of our agents and their clients, and participants will timely detect or prevent other cyber-attacks in the future. Cyber-attacks could give rise to the loss of significant amounts of data and other sensitive information and possibly disable our information technology systems which are used to service our agents. Such threats may be beyond our control as our employees and agents at our owned-brokerage and their clients, as well as our affiliates and their agents, and other third-party service providers may use e-mail, computers, smartphones, and other devices and systems that are outside of our security control environment. In addition, real estate transactions involve the transmission of funds by the buyers and sellers of real estate and consumers or other service providers selected by the consumer that may be the subject of direct cyber-attacks that result in the fraudulent diversion of funds, notwithstanding efforts we have taken to educate consumers with respect to these risks. In addition, cybersecurity threat actors have attempted, and may attempt in the future, to conduct fraudulent activity by engaging with agents at our owned-brokerage or their clients, as well as our affiliates and their agents and clients. We make a large number of wire transfers in connection with loan and real estate closings and process sensitive personal data in connection with these transactions. Although we have sophisticated fraud detection processes and have taken other measures to continuously improve controls to identify fraudulent activity on our mobile app, website, and internal systems, we may not be able to detect and prevent all such activity. Persistent or pervasive fraudulent activity may cause our agents or our agents clients to lose trust in us and decrease or terminate their usage of our platform, which could materially harm our operations, business, results, and financial condition. The increasing prevalence and sophistication of cyber-attacks as well as the evolution of cyber-attacks and other efforts to breach or disrupt our systems or those of our employees, agents, agents clients, and third-party service providers, has led and will likely continue to lead to increased costs to us with respect to identifying, protecting, detecting, containing, responding, recovering, mitigating, insuring against, and remediating these risks, as well as any related attempted or actual fraud. While we have experienced and expect to continue to experience these types of threats and incidents, none of them have been material to our business. Although we employ measures to identify, protect, detect, address, contain, and mitigate these threats, and conduct diligence on the security measures employed by key third-party service providers, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in harm to confidentiality, integrity, and availability of critical systems, data, and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties, including personal information and financial information) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include regulatory violations of applicable U.S. and to a lesser degree, international privacy law, reputational damage, loss of market value, litigation with third parties (which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability), diminution in the value of the products and services we provide to our agents and our agents clients, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs (that may include liability for stolen assets or information), any of which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our competitiveness and business, financial condition, and results of operations. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for data security liabilities actually incurred, will cover any indemnification claims against us relating to any incident, will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our fraud detection processes and information security systems may not successfully detect all fraudulent activity by third parties aimed at our employees or agents, which could adversely affect our reputation and business results. Third-party cybersecurity threat actors have attempted in the past, and may attempt in the future, to conduct fraudulent activity by engaging with our agents or our agents clients, using copycat websites, or illegitimate money transfer requests. These threats may also affect our title insurance and escrow business. We make a large number of wire transfers in connection with loan and real estate closings and process sensitive personal data in connection with these transactions. Although we have sophisticated fraud detection processes and have taken other measures to continuously improve controls to identify fraudulent activity on our mobile app, website and internal systems, we may not be able to detect or prevent all such activity. Persistent or pervasive fraudulent activity may cause our agents or our agents clients to lose trust in us and decrease or terminate their usage of our services, which could materially harm our operations, business, results, and financial condition. We could be subject to losses if banks do not honor our escrow and trust deposits. 20 Table of Contents We act as escrow agents for certain of our agents clients. As an escrow agent, we receive money from our agents clients to hold until certain conditions are satisfied. Upon the satisfaction of those conditions, we release the money to the appropriate party. We deposit this money with various depository banks and while these deposits are not assets of our business, we remain contingently liable for the disposition of these deposits. A significant amount of these deposits held by depository banks may be in excess of the federal deposit insurance limit. If any of our depository banks were to become unable to honor any portion of our deposits due to a bank failure or otherwise, our agents clients could seek to hold us responsible for such amounts and, if our agents clients prevailed in their claims, we could be subject to significant losses. A significant adoption by consumers of alternatives to full-service agents could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A significant change in consumer sales that eliminates or minimizes the role of the agent in the real estate transaction process could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These options may include direct-buyer companies (also called iBuyers) that purchase directly from the seller at below-market rates in exchange for speed and convenience and then resell the properties shortly thereafter at market prices, and discounters who reduce the role of the agent in order to offer sellers a low commission or a flat fee while giving rebates to buyers. Consumer preferences regarding buying or selling houses and financing their home purchase will determine if these models reduce or replace the long-standing preference for full-service agents. We have integrated, and may continue to integrate in the future, machine learning and AI in certain tools and features available on our platform. Machine learning and AI technology present various operational, compliance and reputational risks and if any such risks were to materialize, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We have integrated machine learning and AI in a number of tools and features available on our platform that our agents and affiliates use in their daily activities. For example, our Likely to Sell feature uses machine learning to recommend contacts to our agents with the highest likelihood of selling their homes within the next 12 months, and certain of our marketing tools use AI to help our agents write social media and marketing content, including, but not limited to, property descriptions and emails to their clients. We may continue to integrate machine learning and AI technology in new offerings. Notwithstanding the use of AI within our platform and certain agent activities, we have yet to utilize AI within our financial reporting or internal control over financial reporting functions. Given that machine learning and AI is a new and rapidly developing technology that is in its early stages of business use, it presents a number of operational, compliance and reputational risks. AI algorithms are currently known to sometimes produce unexpected results and behave in unpredictable ways (e.g., hallucinatory behavior) that can generate irrelevant, nonsensical, deficient or factually incorrect content and results, which may result in reputational harm to us and our agents and be damaging to our brand. Additionally, content, analyses or recommendations that are based on machine learning and AI might be found to be biased, discriminatory or harmful, might present ethical concerns and might violate current and future laws and regulations. We expect that there will continue to be new laws or regulations concerning the use of machine learning and AI technology, which might be burdensome for us to comply with and may limit our ability to offer our existing tools and features or new offerings based on machine learning and AI technology. Further, the use of machine learning and AI technology involves complexities and requires specialized expertise. We may not be able to attract and retain top talent to support our machine learning and AI technology initiatives and maintain our systems and infrastructure. Any disruption or failure in our machine learning and AI systems or infrastructure could result in delays and operational challenges. If any of the operational, compliance or reputational risks were to materialize, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Through our affiliate business, we have expanded, and may continue to expand in the future, into international markets, which will expose us to significant risks. A component of our growth strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and establishment of an agent and affiliate base internationally. We are continuing to adapt and develop strategies to address international markets, but there is no guarantee that such efforts will have the desired effect. For example, we have established relationships with new partners, and may need to establish additional relationships with third parties or acquire businesses in order to expand into certain countries, and if we fail to identify, establish, and maintain such relationships or successfully identify and acquire businesses, we may be unable to execute on our expansion plans. We maintain limited operations in India, the United Kingdom, France and Hong Kong. We expect that our international activities will continue to grow in the future as we pursue opportunities in international markets, which may require significant dedication of management attention and will require significant upfront investment. 21 Table of Contents Our current and future international business and operations involve a variety of risks, including the need to adapt and localize our platform for specific countries; unexpected changes in trade relations, regulations, or laws; new, evolving, and more stringent regulations relating to privacy and data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in Europe and Canada; adverse changes to political and economic climates of foreign countries, or in their relations with the U.S.; difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, and regulatory systems; increased travel, real estate, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with international operations; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; regulations, adverse tax burdens, and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash; and increased costs and difficulty associated with overseeing affiliates operating outside of the U.S. If we invest substantial time and resources to grow our international operations and are unable to do so successfully or in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our management team is required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports, which could adversely affect our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to deliver an attestation report on the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting. An adverse report may be issued in the event our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, or operating. When evaluating our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify material weaknesses during the year that we may not be able to remediate by year-end. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm expresses an opinion that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline, and we could become subject to litigation or investigations by the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional management attention and which could adversely affect our business. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting will not prevent or detect all errors and fraud. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected. Covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our borrowing capacity or operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. Our Revolving Credit and Security Agreement with Barclays Bank PLC (the Concierge Facility) and our Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreement with Barclays Bank PLC (the Revolving Credit Facility) contain, and any future agreement relating to additional indebtedness which we may enter into may contain, various financial covenants. The Concierge Facility, which is secured by, and can be used to borrow against, eligible receivables and cash related to part of our Compass Concierge Program, and our Revolving Credit Facility, which is secured by substantially all of our assets and our subsidiary guarantors, contain customary representations, warranties, affirmative covenants, such as financial statement reporting requirements, negative covenants, and financial covenants applicable to us and our restricted subsidiaries. The negative covenants include restrictions that, among other things, restrict our and our subsidiaries ability to incur liens and indebtedness, make certain investments, declare dividends, dispose of, transfer or sell assets, make stock repurchases and consummate certain other matters, all subject to certain exceptions. In certain cases, we may be required to repay all of the relevant debt immediately; the occurrence of such an event may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to use our net operating losses and other tax attributes may be limited. Certain of our federal net operating losses (NOLs) will begin to expire in 2032 and certain of our state NOLs will begin to expire in 2026. The realization of these net operating losses depends on our future taxable income and there is a risk that these NOL carryforwards could expire unused, which could materially affect our operating results. In addition, under Sections 382 and 383 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), a corporation that undergoes an ownership change, generally defined as a greater than 50% change by value in its equity ownership over a three-year period is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs and other tax attributes, such as research tax credits to offset future taxable income. We have not performed an analysis to determine whether our past issuances of stock 22 Table of Contents and other changes in our stock ownership may have resulted in one or more ownership changes. If it is determined that we have in the past experienced an ownership change, or if we undergo one or more ownership changes as a result of our IPO or future transactions in our stock, then our ability to utilize NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes could be limited by Sections 382 and 383 of the Code. Future changes in our stock ownership could result in an ownership change under Sections 382 or 383 of the Code. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs, even if we were to achieve profitability. We rely on assumptions, estimates, and business data to calculate our key performance indicators and other business metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in these metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. Certain of our performance metrics are calculated using third-party applications or internal company data that have not been independently verified. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring such information. In addition, our measure of certain metrics may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly-titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology and as a result our results of operations may not be comparable or compare favorably to our competitors. Changes in accounting standards, subjective assumptions and estimates used by management related to complex accounting matters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidance, and interpretations, such as revenue recognition, lease accounting, stock-based compensation, asset impairments, valuation reserves, income taxes, and the fair value and associated useful lives of acquired long-lived assets, intangible assets, and goodwill, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments made by management. Changes in these rules or their interpretations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments made by management could significantly change our reported results and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our platform is highly complex and our software may contain undetected errors. Our platform is highly complex and the software and code underlying our platform is interconnected and may contain undetected errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities, some of which may only be discovered after the code or software has been released. We regularly release or update software code, which may result in more frequent introduction of errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities into the software underlying our platform, potentially impacting agents' and their clients' experience on the Compass platform. Additionally, due to the interoperative nature of the software and the systems underlying our platform, modifications to certain parts of our code, including changes to our mobile application, website, systems, or third-party application programming interfaces on which our platform rely, or resulting from integration of acquired technologies, could have an unintended impact on other sections of our software or system, which may result in errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities to our platform. Any errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could result in damage to our reputation, loss of our agents or our agents clients, loss of revenue or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our growth prospects and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, our development and testing processes may not detect errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities in our technology offerings prior to their implementation as they may not be identified or detected at the time of implementation. Any inefficiencies, errors, bugs, system misconfiguration, technical problems, or vulnerabilities arising in our technology offerings after their release could reduce the quality of our products, system performance, or interfere with our agents access to and use of our technology and offerings. Our company culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, our business could be harmed. We believe that our company culture, which promotes innovation and entrepreneurship, has been critical to our success. We are guided by our principles, including dreaming big, moving fast, learning from reality, and being solutions-driven. However, as we grow, we may face challenges that may affect our ability to sustain our culture, including: failure to identify, attract, reward, and retain people in leadership positions in our organization who share and further our culture, values, and mission; increasing size and geographic diversity of our workforce; inability to achieve consistent adherence to our internal policies and core values; the continued challenges of a rapidly-evolving industry; the increasing need to develop expertise in new areas of business that affect us; negative perception of our treatment of employees or our response to employee sentiment related to political or social causes or actions of management; and the integration of new personnel and businesses from acquisitions. 23 Table of Contents In addition, many of our employees continue to work remotely, which may adversely affect our efficiency and morale. Certain employees have not agreed with return to office initiatives and as a result have sought employment elsewhere. In addition, we have at times undertaken workforce reductions to better align our operations with our strategic priorities, to manage our cost structure, or in connection with acquisitions. For example, in response to macroeconomic conditions impacting our industry, we took certain cost-saving measures, such as reductions of our workforce in June and September 2022 and January 2023. Although we took deliberate actions to provide impacted employees with equitable separation packages and transition services, there can be no assurance that these actions will not adversely affect employee morale, our culture, and our ability to attract and retain employees. If we are not able to maintain our culture, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage. We maintain insurance to cover costs and losses from certain risk exposures in the ordinary course of our operations, but our insurance does not cover all of the costs and losses from all events. We are responsible for certain retentions and deductibles that vary by policy, and we may suffer losses that exceed our insurance coverage limits by a material amount. We may also incur costs or suffer losses arising from events against which we have no insurance coverage. In addition, large-scale market trends or the occurrence of adverse events in our business may raise our cost of procuring insurance or limit the amount or type of insurance we are able to secure. We may not be able to maintain our current coverage, or obtain new coverage in the future, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Incurring uninsured or underinsured costs or losses could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We process, store, and use personal information and other data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to data privacy, and violation of these privacy obligations could result in a claim for damages, regulatory action, loss of business, and/or unfavorable publicity. We collect, store, share, and process personal information and other employee, agent, agents client and consumer information. There are numerous federal and state laws, as well as regulations and industry guidelines, regarding privacy and the storing, use, processing, sharing, and disclosure and protection of personal information, which are continually evolving, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between state and federal governments and across countries or conflict with other rules. Additionally, laws, regulations, and standards covering marketing and advertising activities conducted by telephone, email, mobile devices, and the internet, may be applicable to our business, such as the TCPA (as implemented by the Telemarketing Sales Rule), the CAN-SPAM Act, GLBA, GDPR and similar state consumer protection laws. We seek to comply with industry standards, applicable laws, and legal obligations concerning data security protection, and are subject to the terms of our own privacy policies and privacy-related obligations to third parties. However, it is possible that these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another, making enforcement, and thus compliance requirements, ambiguous, uncertain, and potentially inconsistent. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, terms of service, privacy-related obligations to agents, our agents clients or other third parties, or our privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized access to or unintended release of personally identifiable information or other agent or client data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others. Any of these events could cause us to incur significant costs in investigating and defending such claims and, if found liable, pay significant fines or damages. Further, these proceedings and any subsequent adverse outcomes may cause our agents and our agents clients to lose trust in us, which could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation and business. Any significant change to applicable laws, regulations or industry practices regarding the use or disclosure of personal information, or regarding the manner in which the express or implied consent of agents and our agents clients for the use and disclosure of personal information is obtained, could require us to modify our platform and its features, possibly in a material manner and subject to increased compliance costs, which may limit our ability to innovate, improve and expand our platform and its features that make use of the personal information that our agents and our agents clients voluntarily share. Numerous states have enacted, or are in the process of enacting, state level data privacy laws and regulations aimed at creating and enhancing individual privacy rights by governing the collection, use, sharing, disclosure, selling, and retention of state residents personal information. The continued proliferation of privacy laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate is likely to result in a disparate array of privacy rules with unaligned or conflicting provisions, accountability requirements, individual rights, and enforcement powers, which may require us to further modify our data processing 24 Table of Contents practices and policies, and may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny and business costs, and lead to unintended confusion among our agents and our agents clients. Our agents operate as independent contractors and are responsible for their own data privacy compliance. We provide training and our platform provides tools and security controls to assist our agents with their data privacy compliance to the extent they store relevant data on our platform. However, if an agent on our platform were to be subject to a claim for breach of data privacy laws, we could be found liable for their claims due to our relationship, which may require us to take more costly data security and compliance measures or to develop more complex systems. We utilize a number of third-party service providers to deliver web and mobile content and any disruption or delays in service from these third-party providers could adversely impact the delivery of our platform. Our brand, reputation and ability to attract customers and real estate partners and deliver quality products and services depend on the reliable performance of our network infrastructure and content delivery processes. To deliver mobile app and web content, we utilize a number of third-party service providers to support essential functions of our business, including Amazon Web Services, who we primarily rely on to host our cloud computing and storage needs. We do not own, control, or operate our cloud computing physical infrastructure or their data center providers. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, system vulnerabilities, earthquakes and similar events at the sites of such providers. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could result in damage to systems and hardware or could cause them to fail completely, and our insurance may not cover such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. A failure of our third-party cloud service providers systems could result in reduced capabilities or a total failure of our systems, which could cause our mobile app or website to be inaccessible, impairing our agents ability to use our platform. Their failure to perform as expected or as required by contract could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations. In light of our reliance on Amazon Web Services and other third-party cloud service providers, coupled with the complexity of obtaining replacement services, any disruption of or interference with our use of these third-party services could adversely impact our operations and business. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, which may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Investors expectations of our performance relating to environmental, social, and governance factors may impose additional costs and expose us to new risks. There is an increasing focus from certain investors, employees, and other stakeholders concerning corporate responsibility, specifically related to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors. Some investors may use these factors to guide their investment strategies and, in some cases, may choose not to invest in us if they believe our policies relating to corporate responsibility are inadequate. Third-party providers of corporate responsibility ratings and reports on companies have increased to meet growing investor demand for measurement of corporate responsibility performance. The criteria by which companies corporate responsibility practices are assessed may change, which could result in greater expectations of us and cause us to undertake costly initiatives to satisfy such new criteria. If we elect not to or are unable to satisfy such new criteria, investors may conclude that our policies with respect to corporate responsibility are inadequate. We may face reputational damage in the event that our corporate responsibility procedures or standards do not meet the standards set by various constituencies. Furthermore, if our competitors corporate responsibility performance is perceived to be greater than ours, potential or current investors may elect to invest with our competitors instead. In addition, in the event that we communicate certain initiatives and goals regarding ESG matters, we could fail, or be perceived to fail, in our achievement of such initiatives or goals, or we could be criticized for the scope of such initiatives or goals. If we fail to satisfy the expectations of investors, employees and other stakeholders or our initiatives are not executed as planned, our reputation and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Natural disasters and catastrophic events may disrupt real estate markets and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, such as fires, hurricanes, earthquakes, windstorms, tornados, floods, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber-attacks, war, civil unrest, terrorist attacks, or pandemics or epidemics may cause damage or disruption to our operations, real estate commerce, and the global economy, and thus, could adversely affect our 25 Table of Contents business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the COVID-19 pandemic and the reactions of governments, markets, and the general public to the COVID-19 pandemic, caused a number of consequences for our business and results of operations. Additionally, properties located in the markets in which we operate, including New York, Northern California, Southern California and South Florida, are more susceptible to certain natural hazards (such as fires, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, or hail) than properties in other parts of the country. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event in any of these cities could disrupt our operations and have a negative impact on our business. As we grow our business, the need for business continuity planning and disaster recovery plans will increase in significance. If we are unable to develop adequate plans to ensure that our business functions continue to operate during and after a disaster, and successfully execute on those plans in the event of a disaster or emergency, our business could be adversely affected and our reputation could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Legal and Regulatory Environment We are periodically subject to claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and other proceedings that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be subject to claims, lawsuits, arbitration proceedings, government investigations, and other legal and regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including those involving labor and employment, anti-discrimination, commercial disputes, competition, professional liability, consumer complaints, personal injury, wrongful death, intellectual property disputes, compliance with regulatory requirements, antitrust and anti-competition claims (including claims related to NAR or MLS rules regarding buyer brokers' offers of commissions and other listing and marketing practices), securities laws, and other matters, and we may become subject to additional types of claims, lawsuits, government investigations and legal or regulatory proceedings if the regulatory landscape changes or as our business grows and as we deploy new offerings, including proceedings related to our acquisitions, integrated services business lines, securities issuances or business practices. We may also be subject to disputes between us and our employees and agents, which are primarily governed by mandatory arbitration provisions, and become involved in disputes between agents where we are not a proper party. The results of any such claims, lawsuits, arbitration proceedings, government investigations or other legal or regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Any claims against us or investigations involving us, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in significant defense and compliance costs, be harmful to our reputation, require significant management attention and divert significant resources. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex and fact-intensive process that requires significant subjective judgment and speculation. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in substantial damages, settlement costs, fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, or could cause harm to our reputation and brand, sanctions, consent decrees, injunctions or other orders requiring a change in our business practices. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, under certain circumstances, we have contractual and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses on behalf of our business and commercial partners and current and former directors, officers and employees. In addition, litigation, claims, and regulatory proceedings against companies unrelated to us in the residential real estate or technology industry, or in other industries, may impact us when the rulings in those cases cover practices common to the broader industry. Examples may include claims associated with RESPA compliance, broker fiduciary duties, and sales agent classification. To the extent these claims against unrelated companies are successful and we or our agents cannot distinguish our or their practices (or our industrys practices), we could face significant liability and could be required to modify certain business practices or relationships, either of which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We classify our agents as independent contractors, and if federal or state law mandates that they be classified as employees, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely impacted. We engage independent contractors, including agents, that are subject to federal regulations and applicable state laws and guidelines regarding independent contractor classifications. These regulations, laws and guidelines are subject to judicial and agency interpretation. Moreover, such regulations, laws, guidelines and interpretations continue to evolve. Federal and other state governments have introduced and may continue to introduce proposed changes to existing classification laws. If our business is found to have misclassified employees as independent contractors, we could face penalties and have additional exposure under laws regarding employee classification, federal and state tax, workers compensation, unemployment benefits, compensation, overtime, minimum wage, meal and rest periods, and discrimination laws. Further, if legal standards for classification of our agents as independent contractors change or appear to be changing, it may be necessary to modify the compensation structure for our agents, including by paying additional compensation and benefits or reimbursing expenses. We face claims from time to time alleging misclassification of status and it could be determined 26 Table of Contents that the independent contractor classification is inapplicable to some or any of our agents. We could also incur substantial costs, penalties and damages due to any such future challenges by current or former professionals to our classification or compensation practices, including with respect to their status as exempt or non-exempt employees. Finally, we could be subject to classification and other claims from employees of our independent contractors, whose employment practices we do not control. Any of these outcomes could result in substantial costs to us, significantly impair our financial condition and our ability to conduct our business as currently contemplated, damage our reputation, and impair our ability to attract agents. In addition, we work with international staffing organizations that hire contractors in various jurisdictions who are subject to various local laws, including labor and employment laws, that differ from those in the United States. We may be subject to claims as a result of the staffing agencies practices, which are outside our control or direction. We may also be subject to claims that these contractors are employees of Compass, subjecting us to corporate tax and other liabilities. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws, many of which are unsettled and still developing, and certain of our businesses are highly regulated. Any failure to comply with such regulations or any changes in such regulations could adversely affect our business. Our real estate brokerage business, our title and escrow business, our mortgage business and the businesses of our agents are subject to a variety of local, state, federal and international laws, such as RESPA, the Fair Housing Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the Exchange Act, GLBA, and federal advertising and other laws, as well as some comparable state statutes and rules of trade organizations such as NAR and local MLSs. RESPA and comparable state statutes prohibit providing or receiving payments, or other things of value, for the referral of business to settlement service providers in connection with the closing of certain real estate transactions. Such laws may to some extent impose limitations on arrangements involving our real estate brokerage, escrow services, title agency and mortgage origination services. RESPA compliance may become a greater challenge under certain administrations for most industry participants offering title and escrow services and mortgage origination services, including brokerages, because of expansive interpretations of RESPA or similar state statutes by certain courts and regulators. Permissible activities under state statutes similar to RESPA may be interpreted more narrowly and enforcement proceedings of those statutes by state regulatory authorities may also be aggressively pursued. RESPA also has been invoked by plaintiffs in private litigation for various purposes and some state authorities have also asserted enforcement rights. In addition, our title agency services business is also subject to regulation by insurance and other regulatory authorities in each state in which we provide title insurance. We are also, to a lesser extent, subject to various other rules and regulations such as controlled business statutes and similar laws or regulations that would limit or restrict transactions among affiliates in a manner that would limit or restrict collaboration among our businesses. For certain licenses, we are required to designate a broker of record as qualified individuals and/or persons who control and supervise the operations of applicable licensed entities. Certain licensed entities also are subject to routine examination and monitoring by state licensing authorities. We cannot provide assurances that we, or our licensed personnel, are and will remain at all times, in full compliance with state and federal real estate, title insurance and escrow, and consumer protection laws and regulations, and we may be subject to litigation, government investigations and enforcement actions, fines or other penalties in the event of any non-compliance. As a result of findings from examinations, we also may be required to take a number of corrective actions, including modifying business practices and making refunds of fees or money earned. In addition, adverse findings in one jurisdiction may be relied on by another state to conduct investigations and impose remedies. If we apply for new licenses, we will become subject to additional licensing requirements, which we may not be in compliance with at all times. If in the future a state agency were to determine that we are required to obtain additional licenses in that state in order to operate our business, or if we lose or do not renew an existing license or are otherwise found to be in violation of a law or regulation, we may be subject to fines or legal penalties, lawsuits, enforcement actions, void contracts or our business operations in that state may be suspended or prohibited. Our business reputation with consumers and third parties also could be damaged. Certain of our businesses may also be subject to the GLBA, which governs how personal information collected in the context of financial services can be used and shared across our businesses and how that information must be protected. The GLBA's requirements include certain disclosures related to collection of information and sharing practices and implementation of a cybersecurity program that adequately protects the collected information. Moreover, under the U.S. franchise law, we are subject to federal regulations enforced by the FTC governing franchise offers and sales, as well as various regulations in states in which we operate, which may impose additional registration and 27 Table of Contents disclosure requirements. Furthermore, our ability to terminate or refuse renewal/transfer of franchise agreements may be restricted by state-specific franchise relationship or business opportunity laws. Compliance with, and monitoring of, the foregoing laws and regulations is complicated and costly and may inhibit our ability to innovate or grow. Our failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties, injunctions and/or potential criminal violations. Any changes to these laws or regulations or any new laws or regulations may make it more difficult for us to operate our business and may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal or civil liability and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA, U.S. domestic bribery laws, and other anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws in the countries in which we conduct business. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly to generally prohibit companies, their employees, and their third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector. If we engage in international sales and business with partners and third-party intermediaries to market our products, we may be required to obtain additional permits, licenses, and other regulatory approvals. In addition, we or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. If we engage in international sales and business with the public sector, we can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, agents, representatives, contractors, and partners, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with such laws, there is a risk that our employees and agents will take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. If we further expand internationally, our risks under these laws may increase. Any such noncompliance with anti-corruption, anti-bribery, or anti-money laundering laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, enforcement actions, fines, damages, other civil or criminal penalties or injunctions, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate the controls. If we further expand our brokerage business to international markets, our platform may become subject to U.S. export controls, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations. Obtaining the necessary export license or other authorization for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Furthermore, our activities are subject to U.S. economic sanctions laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control that prohibit the sale or supply of most products and services to embargoed jurisdictions or sanctioned parties. Violations of U.S. sanctions or export control regulations can result in significant fines or penalties and possible incarceration for responsible agents, employees and managers. Also, various countries, in addition to the U.S., regulate the import and export of certain encryption and other technology, including import and export licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to operate our platform in those countries. Changes in our platform or future changes in export and import regulations may impede the introduction of our platform in international markets, prevent our agents with international clients from using our platform globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our platform to certain countries, governments, or persons altogether, and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Internet law is evolving, and unfavorable changes to, or failure by us to comply with, these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to our business are often uncertain, subject to change and may be conflicting. If we incur costs or liability as a result of unfavorable changes to these regulations or laws or our failure to comply therewith, the business, financial condition and results of operations of our business could be adversely affected. Any costs incurred to prevent or mitigate this potential liability could also harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our intellectual property rights are valuable to us, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brand. 28 Table of Contents Our trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are important assets to us, and litigation to defend intellectual property can be expensive and lengthy. Various factors may pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our platform and technology offerings. For example, we may fail to obtain effective intellectual property protection or effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are available. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective; and our intellectual property rights may be challenged, which could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business or that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our technology and use information that we consider proprietary. In addition to registered intellectual property rights such as trademark registrations, we rely on non-registered proprietary information and technology, such as trade secrets, confidential information, know-how, and technical information. To protect our proprietary information and technology, we rely in part on agreements with our employees, investors, independent contractors, vendors and other third parties that place restrictions on the use and disclosure of this intellectual property. These agreements may be breached, or this intellectual property, including trade secrets, may otherwise be disclosed or become known to our competitors, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from this intellectual property. To the extent that our employees, independent contractors, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products and services by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, intellectual property laws may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and competitive position. We may pursue registration of trademarks and domain names in the U.S. and in certain jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Effective protection of trademarks and domain names is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and registration costs as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. We may be required to protect our rights in an increasing number of countries, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available. Foreign countries have different laws and regulations regarding protection of intellectual property, and the protection available in other jurisdictions may not be as effective as that provided in the U.S. We may be unable to obtain trademark protection for our platform, technology offerings and brands, and our existing trademark registrations and applications, and any trademarks that may be used in the future, may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our platform and technology offerings from those of our competitors. In addition, our trademarks may be contested, circumvented, or found to be unenforceable, weak or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or otherwise violating them. To counter infringement or unauthorized use of our trademarks, we may deem it necessary to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. An adverse outcome in such litigation or proceedings may expose us to a loss of our competitive position, expose us to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities and administrative bodies in the U.S. and abroad may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Efforts to enforce or protect proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could harm our business and results of operations. We do not own the Christie's International Real Estate brand and rely on our exclusive license right under the License Agreement, which allows us to franchise and/or license the brand to our affiliates. CMW, the licensor under the License Agreement, has the right to terminate our license if certain conditions occur prior to the termination date. Additionally, any disagreements or complications in our relationship with CMW, difficulties in the affiliate business or changes in the licensing strategy could disrupt and/or negatively impact our affiliate business and may result in termination of the License Agreement prior to the termination date. While currently, our affiliate business represents a small portion of our revenue and the loss of the license is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, as we expand that line of business in the future, any early termination of the License Agreement may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Our platform, its features, and technology offerings may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from providing our products and services. We cannot guarantee that our internally developed or acquired systems, technologies and content do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we rely on products, content, software, technology, and other intellectual property that we license from third parties for use in our platform, its features, and technology offerings. These third parties may be subject to infringement claims, the results of which could severely limit our ability to develop our services containing their intellectual property and our business could be disrupted or otherwise harmed. We cannot guarantee that these licenses will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and we may be subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation if we have failed to obtain appropriate intellectual property licenses from such parties, or such parties do not possess the necessary intellectual property rights to the products or services they license to our business. If we are unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties, we may be forced to acquire or develop alternate technology, which may require significant time and effort and may be of lower quality or performance standards and/or may be prohibited by contract from developing competing products. We have been, and may be, subject to claims that we or our agents have infringed the copyrights, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights of a third party. Any intellectual property-related infringement or misappropriation claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert management resources and attention. Should we be found liable for infringement or misappropriation, we may be required to redesign some of our systems and technologies, enter into licensing agreements, pay substantial damages, limit or curtail our offerings and technologies, or take other action, which could harm our business and results of operations. Any of the foregoing could prevent us from competing effectively and could expose our business to significant liabilities. Some of our products and services contain open source software, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative effect on our business. We use open source software in our products and services and anticipate using open source software in the future. Some open source software licenses require those who distribute open source software as part of their own software product to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software product or to make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost, and we may be subject to such terms. The terms of certain open source licenses to which our business is subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our products or services. Additionally, we could face claims from third parties alleging ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license, or cease offering the products or services unless and until we can re-engineer such source code in a manner that avoids infringement. This re-engineering process could require us to expend significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be able to complete the re-engineering process successfully. In addition, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The multi-class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting power with Robert Reffkin, our founder, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer, and his financial planning vehicles and affiliated trusts. As of December 31, 2024, Robert Reffkin, our founder, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer, together with his financial planning vehicles and affiliated trusts (for purposes of this risk factor discussion, Mr. Reffkin) (and including his shares of Class A common stock subject to outstanding RSUs for which the service condition has been satisfied or would be satisfied within 60 days of December 31, 2024), held 10,828,116 shares of Class A common stock and all of the issued and outstanding shares of Class C common stock. As of December 31, 2024, Mr. Reffkin held approximately 33.5% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, Mr. Reffkin is able to influence any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and the approval of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or other major corporate transaction. As a stockholder, Mr. Reffkin is entitled to vote his shares in his own interests, which may not always be in the interests of our stockholders generally, and this concentrated voting power may have the effect of delaying, preventing, or 30 Table of Contents deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their capital stock as part of a sale of our company, and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Future transfers by the holders of Class C common stock will generally result in those shares automatically converting into shares of Class A common stock, subject to limited exceptions, such as certain transfers effected for estate planning or other transfers by Mr. Reffkin. In addition, each share of Class C common stock will convert automatically into one share of Class A common stock upon certain conditions. However, until one of those certain triggering events occurs, voting power will be concentrated with Mr. Reffkin. We cannot predict the effect our multi-class structure may have on the market price of our Class A common stock. We cannot predict whether our multi-class structure will result in a lower or more volatile market price of our Class A common stock, adverse publicity, or other adverse consequences. Pursuant to our restated certificate of incorporation, each share of our Class C common stock will convert into one share of our Class A common stock two days prior to the date specified in writing upon which our shares of capital stock will be included on the S&P 500 index following written notice and confirmation from Standard & Poors of such specified date and inclusion. Under certain index providers announced policies that restrict the inclusion of companies with multi-class share structures in certain of their indices, the multi-class structure of our common stock would make us ineligible for inclusion in certain indices and may discourage such indices from selecting us for inclusion, notwithstanding this automatic termination provision. As a result, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, and other investment vehicles that attempt to track those indices would not invest in our Class A common stock. It is unclear what effect, if any, these policies will have on the valuations of publicly-traded companies excluded from such indices, but it is possible that they may depress valuations, as compared to similar companies that are included. Given the sustained flow of investment funds into passive strategies that seek to track certain indices, exclusion from certain stock indices would likely preclude investment by many of these funds and could make our Class A common stock less attractive to other investors. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. The trading price of the shares of our Class A common stock is likely to be volatile. Technology and real estate stocks historically have experienced high levels of volatility. Accordingly, the trading price of our Class A common stock has historically and may in the future fluctuate substantially, due to factors including: loss of investor confidence in, or significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of, technology companies in general and of companies in the real estate technology industry in particular; changes in mortgage interest rates; variations in the housing market, including seasonal trends and fluctuations; announcements of new solutions, commercial relationships, acquisitions, or other events by us or our competitors; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; changes in how agents perceive the benefits of our platform and future offerings; the publics reaction to our press releases, other public announcements, and filings with the SEC, or those of other companies in the industries in which we compete; fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float; sales of large blocks of our common stock; sales, or the anticipated sale, of a substantial amount of our Class A common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers, or principal stockholders; fluctuations in our results of operations or financial projections; changes in actual or future expectations of investors or securities analysts; litigation involving us, our industry, or both; governmental or regulatory actions or audits; regulatory developments applicable to our business; real estate market conditions; general economic conditions and trends; major catastrophic events; and departures of key employees. In addition, if the market for technology or real estate stocks, or the stock market, in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. The trading price of our Class A common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in the real estate or technology industries even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Any securities class action litigation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock may, to some extent, depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us should downgrade our shares, change their opinion of our business prospects, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price may decline. If one or more of these analysts who cover us ceases coverage of our company or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. 31 Table of Contents We may need to raise additional capital to continue to grow our business and we may not be able to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Growing and operating our business, including by continuously innovating, improving, and expanding our platform, expanding our integrated services and expanding into new markets, may require significant cash outlays, liquidity reserves, and capital expenditures. If cash on hand, cash generated from operations, and cash equivalents and investment balances are not sufficient to meet our cash and liquidity needs, we may need to seek additional capital and we may not be able to raise the necessary cash on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Financing arrangements we pursue or assume may require us to grant certain rights, take certain actions, or agree to certain restrictions that could negatively impact our business. If additional capital is not available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all, we may need to modify our business plans, which would harm our ability to grow our operations. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger, acquisition, or other change in control of our company that the stockholders may consider favorable, including provisions that: classify the board of directors into three classes with staggered three-year terms; permit the board of directors to establish the number of directors and to fill any vacancies and newly-created directorships; require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our charter documents; authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board of directors could use to implement a stockholder rights plan; allow only our chief executive officer, chairperson of our board of directors, or a majority of our board of directors to call a special meeting of stockholders; prohibit cumulative voting; permit the removal of directors only for cause and only with the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of the then outstanding capital stock; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; expressly authorize the board of directors to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws; and establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Moreover, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL") may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company by imposing certain restrictions on mergers, business combinations, and other transactions between us and holders of 15% or more of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain exclusive forum provisions for certain claims, which may limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, to the fullest extent permitted by law, will be the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the DGCL, our restated certificate of incorporation, or our amended and restated bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that the federal district courts of the U.S. will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act, or Federal Forum Provision. Accordingly, actions by our stockholders to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder must be brought in federal court, to the fullest extent permitted by law. However, there can be no assurance that federal or state courts will find the choice of forum provision contained in our restated certificate of incorporation or restated bylaws to be applicable or enforceable in every case. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Class A common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our Class A common stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, restrictions contained in future agreements and financing instruments, business prospects and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. 32 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. Overview of the Cybersecurity Program Compass operates a cybersecurity program designed to identify, assess, and mitigate cybersecurity risks to protect our information assets, ensure business continuity, and maintain stakeholder trust. Guided by industry best practices, including the National Institute of Standards and Technology's Cybersecurity Framework ("NIST CSF") and the Center for Internet Security ("CIS") Critical Controls, we focus on continuous improvement to address emerging threats and vulnerabilities. We recognize the evolving nature of cybersecurity threats and regularly enhance our security controls, processes, and policies to adapt to these risks. As part of our cybersecurity program, we undertake various activities and programs, including, but not limited to: detective, preventative, corrective, and technical controls; identity and access management systems; periodic risk assessments, including penetration testing; periodic end-user training and simulations; incident response; vulnerability management; infrastructure and application security; corporate security; and policies for the handling of personally identifiable information and other restricted data. We closely monitor privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations and conduct related reviews of our policies. We have implemented incident response plans that provide for the response, containment, eradication, reporting, and disclosure of security incidents. We also carry customary cybersecurity risk insurance and have a retainer in place for third-party incident response and forensics resources. Cybersecurity Risk Management Program Cybersecurity is an ongoing priority, and we have developed and implemented a cybersecurity risk management program designed to identify, assess, prioritize, and mitigate cybersecurity risks to ensure our compliance with applicable privacy and cybersecurity laws. Our cybersecurity risk management program is integrated with our overall enterprise risk management program and is a crucial component of our risk assessment process. For instance, we report on, review, and consider the results and findings from external and internal security and privacy assessments as part of our risk program. Additionally, we analyze how cybersecurity risks interact with operational, financial, compliance, and reputational risks. When appropriate, we also engage third-party service providers to evaluate, test, or assist with specific elements of our cybersecurity risk management program. For instance, we utilize external assessors, including security researchers and penetration testers, to identify and report vulnerabilities in our information systems. Further, our cybersecurity risk management program includes a third-party risk management program to assess and manage cybersecurity risks associated with our use of third-party services providers that have access to our information systems and/or employee, agent or agent client confidential information. For example, we perform certain due diligence before engaging third-party service providers and consider potential cybersecurity risks and exposures in our choice among providers. We also generally require our third-party service providers that could potentially introduce cybersecurity risks to our information systems or sensitive consumer personal information to contractually agree to maintain a cybersecurity risk management program aimed at mitigating those risks and be subject to external cybersecurity audits. Cybersecurity Risks Associated With Cybersecurity Threats While we have been subject to a number of cybersecurity threats and experienced non-material incidents in the past, as of the date of this Annual Report, they have not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our third-party service providers have also been subject to a number of cybersecurity threats and incidents, but to date, none of those threats and incidents have had a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Please refer to the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report for additional information related to the cybersecurity risks that could potentially impact our business. Cybersecurity Governance 33 Table of Contents Our Information Security team oversees our cybersecurity program, which is described in more detail above. In conjunction with the Companys in-house legal team, this team is principally responsible for managing our cybersecurity risk management program, our security controls, and our response to cybersecurity threats, and incidents. We have also established a Security and Privacy Committee (Committee), co-chaired by our Senior Vice President, Head of Engineering, Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and General Counsel, that meets monthly. This Committee is responsible for setting cybersecurity policies, strategies, and priorities, as well as ensuring that cybersecurity initiatives are aligned with the Companys objectives. Members of the Committee may, from time to time, include representatives from information security, internal audit, legal, product, engineering, finance, operations, strategy and people and culture functions. In addition to the monthly communications at the Committee level, our Information Security team collaborates with senior leadership across our organization on a regular basis as part of the Companys overall enterprise risk management program. In 2024, we hired a new Chief Information Security Officer to oversee the cybersecurity program and lead the Information Security team.Our CISO has over 17 years of experience building security teams and driving security initiatives for public, high-growth, and regulated companies. He is a Certified Information Systems Security Professional and reports to our Senior Vice President and Head of Engineering. Our CISO reports quarterly to the Audit Committee of our board of directors (the Audit Committee), which is responsible for overseeing the Companys cybersecurity risk management program and cybersecurity risks. As part of that report, our CISO covers topics such as (i) an overview of our overall cybersecurity strategy and posture, (ii) results and recommendations from cybersecurity risk assessments and audits, (iii) vulnerabilities in our information systems, (iv) progress towards pre-determined risk-mitigation goals, (v) identified and potential cybersecurity risks and threats, (vi) cybersecurity incidents of certain impact in accordance with the Companys cybersecurity policies, and (vii) programs related to mitigation of cybersecurity risks and potential threats, among other things. The Audit Committee reports to the full board of directors regarding its activities, including reports that it receives from our CISO. Item 2. Properties. We are headquartered in New York, New York, where we occupy approximately 32,500 square feet of office space pursuant to a lease that is expected to expire in June 2030 subject to the terms thereof. We also lease operating and sales offices throughout the United States. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The information relating to legal proceedings contained in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report is incorporated herein by this reference. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. None. 34 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information for Common Stock Our common stock has traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol COMP since April 1, 2021. Prior to that, there was no public market for our common stock. Stockholders As of February 20, 2025, there were 205 holders of record of our common stock. The actual number of stockholders is greater than this number of holders of record, and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners, but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. This number of holders of record also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid, and do not anticipate declaring or paying in the foreseeable future, any cash dividends on our capital stock. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws and will depend on then existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans See the section titled Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters included in Part III, Item 12 of this Annual Report for information regarding securities authorized for issuance. Stock Performance Graph The stock performance graph set forth below shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C under, or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act and will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent the Company specifically incorporates it by reference into such a filing. 35 Table of Contents The following graph compares the performance of our common stock to the Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index and Peer Group Index by assuming $100 was invested in each investment option as of April 1, 2021, which represents the day our common stock began trading on the NYSE. Year 4/1/21 12/31/21 12/31/22 12/31/23 12/31/24 COMP $ 100.00 $ 45.11 $ 11.56 $ 18.66 $ 29.03 S&P 500 Index(1) $ 100.00 $ 118.57 $ 95.51 $ 118.66 $ 146.31 Peer Group Index (2) $ 100.00 $ 67.17 $ 23.05 $ 35.64 $ 20.99 ____________ (1)S&P 500 Index is a capitalization-weighted index of domestic equities of the largest companies traded on the NYSE and NASDAQ. (2)Peer Group Index consists of Zillow Group, Inc. (ZG), Redfin Corp (RDFN), Opendoor Technologies Inc. (OPEN), EXP World Holdings, Inc. (EXPI) and Anywhere Real Estate Inc. (HOUS). Sales of Unregistered Securities From October 1, 2024 through February 25, 2025, we offered, sold and issued the following unregistered securities: (1) As previously disclosed in Form 4s filed with the SEC, Robert Reffkin, our founder and Chief Executive Officer, exchanged an aggregate of 5,636,354 shares of Class C common stock for an equivalent number of shares of Class A common stock pursuant to an Equity Exchange Right Agreement on November 6, 2024, December 18, 2024 and February 19, 2025; and (2) As previously disclosed in Form 8-K filed with the SEC, we entered into an agreement to issue 44,136,191 shares of Class A common stock (the "Share Consideration") related to an acquisition that closed on January 13, 2025 (the "Closing Date"); the Share Consideration is subject to further adjustment (the Share Consideration Adjustment) if the value of the Share Consideration on the 366th day following the Closing Date, determined using the price per share equal to the volume-weighted average price of the Companys Class A common stock for the 10-trading day period ending on the 366th day following the Closing Date (the Post-Closing Share Price), is (i) greater than $344 million, in which case the Share Consideration will be reduced by a number of shares in an aggregate amount of up to $50 million (determined using the Post-Closing Share Price), up to a maximum of 5.6 million shares or (ii) less than $344 million, in which case the Share Consideration will be increased by a number of shares in an aggregate amount of up to $50 million (determined using the greater of $6.6612 and the Post-Closing Share Price), up to a maximum of 7.5 million shares. 36 Table of Contents The offer, sale and issuance of the securities described above were exempt from registration under the Securities Act in reliance upon Section 3(a)(9) and Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act (or Regulation D promulgated thereunder) as transactions by an issuer not involving any public offering. The recipients of the securities in each of these transactions represented their intentions to acquire the securities for investment only and not with the view to or for sale in connection with any distribution thereof, and appropriate legends were placed upon the stock certificates issued in these transactions. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. Item 6. Reserved. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled Note Regarding ForwardLooking Statements. You should review the disclosure under the section entitled Risk Factors in this Annual Report for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. OVERVIEW Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, or MD&A, is provided as a supplement to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report and is intended to provide an understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and changes in our results of operations and financial condition. Our MD&A is organized as follows: Introduction. This section provides a general description of our company and its business, recent developments affecting our company, operational highlights and discussions of how seasonal factors and macroeconomic conditions may impact our results. Results of Operations. This section provides our analysis and outlook for the significant line items on our statements of operations, as well as other information that we deem meaningful to understand our results of operations on a consolidated basis for the year ended December 31, 2024 compared to the year ended December 31, 2023. An analysis of the significant line items on our statements of operations, as well as other information that we deem meaningful to understand our results of operations on a consolidated basis for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 is included in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures. This section provides a discussion of key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures we use to evaluate our business and measure our performance, in addition to the measures presented in our consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources. This section provides an analysis of our liquidity and cash flows, as well as a discussion of our commitments that existed as of December 31, 2024. Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies. This section discusses those accounting policies that are considered important to the evaluation and reporting of our financial condition and results of operations, and whose application requires us to exercise subjective and often complex judgments in making estimates and assumptions. Recent Accounting Pronouncements. This section provides a summary of the most recent authoritative accounting standards and guidance that have either been recently adopted by our company or may be adopted in the future. INTRODUCTION 37 Table of Contents We are a leading tech-enabled real estate services company that includes the largest real estate brokerage in the United States by sales volume. We also provide integrated services to real estate agents and their clients, including title, escrow and mortgage. We provide an end-to-end proprietary technology platform that empowers residential real estate agents to deliver exceptional service to seller and buyer clients. Our Compass platform includes an integrated suite of cloud-based software for customer relationship management, marketing, client service, brokerage services and other critical functionalities, all custom-built for the real estate industry. The Compass platform also uses proprietary data, analytics, AI, and machine learning to simplify workflows of agents and deliver high-value recommendations and outcomes for both agents and their clients. Additionally, we provide integrated services, such as title and escrow and mortgage, both of which are available on the Compass platform. Compass agents utilize the platform to grow their businesses, save time and manage their businesses more effectively. Our business model is directly aligned with the success of agents. We attract agents to our brokerage and partner with them as independent contractors that affiliate their real estate licenses with us, operating their businesses on the Compass platform and under our brand. We currently generate substantially all of our revenue from commissions paid to us by our agents' clients at the time that a home is transacted on the Compass platform. While integrated services comprise a small portion of our revenue to date, we believe we are well-positioned to capture meaningful revenue from integrated services as we continue to diversify our offerings within the real estate ecosystem. Recent Developments A number of macroeconomic conditions, including high interest rates and the Federal Reserve Board's policies, have contributed to the slowdown in the U.S. residential real estate market, impacting our business and financial results. Specifically, these conditions resulted in slowed consumer demand, declining home affordability and low inventory. While the Federal Reserve Board began to ease interest rates during 2024 and the beginning signs of a housing market recovery emerged, any further slowdown, additional challenging conditions or lack of further improvement in the U.S. residential real estate market could have a significant impact on our business and financial results during 2025 and beyond. Additionally, as part of its nationwide class action settlement of antitrust claims, NAR agreed to implement certain industry-wide practice changes, including, but not limited to, prohibiting buyer brokers' offers of compensation from being included in listings on Multiple Listing Services and requiring a buyer to enter into a written agreement with their agent that would set forth the buyer broker's fee before showing the buyer a property. These changes went into effect in August of 2024. Early in the spring of 2024, the Company entered into its own class action antitrust settlement and agreed to implement certain other practice changes. See Note 11 - "Commitments and Contingencies" to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for more information. Further, we believe the Department of Justice is continuing to focus on the real estate industry, including the practice changes resulting from the NAR settlement, which could result in additional practice-wide changes. While we continue to assess the effects of the ongoing slowdown and the recent industry-wide changes on our business and financial results, the ultimate impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict, as well as the actions that we have taken, or will take, to minimize any current and future impact on our revenue, profitability, or liquidity. In the meantime, the significant cost reduction actions that we have taken since 2022 have reduced our operating expense levels to the point that we are able to consistently generate positive operating cash flow, aside from a limited number of seasonally slower transaction volume months during the year. Operational Highlights for the year ended December 31, 2024 We continue to attract and retain the most talented agents to our platform, which is critical to our long-term success. We grow our revenue by attracting high-performing agents looking to grow their business and increasing the productivity of our agents. We invest in our proprietary, integrated platform designed for real estate agents, to enable them to grow their business and save them time and money. This value proposition allows us to recruit more agents, help them grow their business and retain them on our platform at industry leading retention rates. We had over 33,000 agents on our platform as of December 31, 2024. A subset of our agents are considered principal agents, which we define as either agents who are leaders of their respective agent teams or individual agents operating independently on our platform. 38 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, the Number of Principal Agents1,2,3 was 17,752, 14,683 and 13,649, respectively. The principal agent additions came in both new and existing markets. During the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, our agents closed 205,122, 178,848 and 211,538 Total Transactions1, respectively. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2024 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily attributable to the increase in the number of agents on our platform. Our Gross Transaction Value1 for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 was $216.8 billion, $186.1 billion and $230.3 billion, respectively. Gross Transaction Value is primarily driven by home values in the markets we serve and by changes in the number of our agents in those markets. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2024 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily attributable to the increase of the number of agents on our platform. For the year ended December 31, 2024, our Gross Transaction Value represented 4.95% of residential real estate transacted in the United States, compared to 4.46% for the year ended December 31, 2023. We calculate our market share by dividing our Gross Transaction Value, or the total dollar value of transactions closed by agents on our platform, by two times (to account for the sell-side and buy-side of each transaction) the aggregate dollar value of U.S. existing home sales as reported by NAR. Gross Transaction Value includes a de minimis number of new development and commercial brokerage transactions. Seasonality and Cyclicality The residential real estate market is seasonal, which directly impacts our agents businesses. While individual markets may vary, transaction volume is typically highest in spring and summer, and then declines gradually in late fall and winter. We experience the most significant financial effect from this seasonality in the first and fourth quarters of each year, when our revenue is typically lower relative to the second and third quarters. The effect of this seasonality on our revenue has a larger effect on our results of operations as many of our operating expenses (excluding commissions) are somewhat fixed in nature and do not vary directly in line with our revenue. We believe that this seasonality has affected and will continue to affect our quarterly results. The broader residential real estate industry is cyclical, and individual markets can have their own dynamics that diverge from broad market conditions. The real estate industry can be impacted by the strength or weakness of the economy, changes in interest rates or mortgage lending standards, or extreme economic or political conditions. Our revenue growth rate tends to increase as the real estate industry performs well and to decrease when the real estate industry performs poorly. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate substantially all our revenue by assisting home sellers and buyers in listing, marketing, selling and finding homes. We hold the real estate brokerage license that is necessary under relevant state laws and regulations to provide brokerage services and therefore we control those services that are necessary to legally transfer real estate between home sellers and buyers. We are the principal in the transaction and recognize as revenue the gross amount of the commission we receive in exchange for those services. Revenue is recognized upon the transfer of control of promised services to the home sellers or home buyers. Accordingly, real estate commissions are recorded as revenue at the point in time real estate transactions are closed (i.e., sale or purchase of a home). We also recognize revenue from other integrated services related to the home transaction such as title and escrow services. While revenue from these services has been immaterial through 2024, we expect revenue from these services to grow over time as we expand existing and add new integrated services into our platform. 1 For the definitions of Number of Principal Agents, Total Transactions and Gross Transaction Value please refer to the section entitled Key Business Metrics included elsewhere in this Annual Report. 2 During the first quarter of 2024, the Company began to report its agent statistics as of the period end. The Company's Number of Principal Agents and year over year growth reported in this Annual Report is based on the period end count. 3 Excludes approximately 1,000 principal agents located in Texas who joined Compass during the second quarter of 2024 as part of the Latter & Blum Holdings, LLC acquisition. These agents operate with a flat fee / transaction fee based model, which is different from the Company's standard commission model. 39 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Commissions and other related expense Commissions and other related expense primarily consists of commissions paid to our agents, who are independent contractors, upon the closing of a real estate transaction and fees paid to external brokerages for client referrals, which are recognized and paid upon the closing of a real estate transaction. We also charge our agents fees. These fees are either transaction based, where amounts are collected at the closing of a real estate transaction, or in the form of periodic fixed fees. These fees are recognized as a reduction to commissions and other related expense. Our commissions and other related expense as a percentage of revenue is expected to fluctuate from period-to-period based on the mix of the commission arrangements we have with our agents, the fees we collect and any changes in integrated services revenue. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of marketing and advertising expenses, compensation and other personnel-related costs for employees supporting sales, marketing, expansion and related functions, occupancy-related costs for our regional offices, agent acquisition incentives and costs related to administering the Compass Concierge Program, including associated bad debt expenses. Advertising expense primarily includes the cost of marketing activities such as print advertising, online advertising and promotional items, which are expensed as incurred. Compensation and other personnel-related costs include salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation expense. We expect sales and marketing expense to vary from period-to-period as a percentage of revenue. Operations and support Operations and support expense consists primarily of compensation and other personnel-related costs for employees supporting agents, third-party consulting and professional services costs, fair value adjustments to contingent consideration for our acquisitions and other acquisition related expenses. We expect operations and support expense to vary from period-to-period as a percentage of revenue. Research and development Research and development expense consists primarily of compensation and other personnel-related costs for employees in the product, engineering and technology functions, website hosting expenses, software licenses and equipment, third-party consulting costs, data licenses and other related expenses. We expect that our research and development expense will vary from period-to-period as a percentage of revenue. General and administrative General and administrative expense primarily consists of compensation costs for executive management and administrative employees, including finance and accounting, legal, human resources and communications, the occupancy costs for our New York headquarters and other offices supporting administrative functions, litigation charges, professional services fees, insurance expenses and talent acquisition expenses. We expect that general and administrative expense will vary from period-to-period as a percentage of revenue for the foreseeable future as we focus on processes, systems and controls to enable our internal support functions for our business. Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs consists primarily of severance and other termination benefits for employees whose roles are being eliminated, lease terminations costs as a result of the accelerated amortization of various right-of-use assets and other restructuring costs. 40 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense consists primarily of depreciation and amortization of our property and equipment, capitalized software and acquired intangible assets. We expect depreciation and amortization expense will vary from period-to-period as a percentage of revenue for the foreseeable future. Investment Income, net Investment income, net consists primarily of interest, dividends and realized gains and losses earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of expense related to the interest expenses, including commitment fees for available borrowing capacities, and amortization of debt issuance costs associated with our Concierge Facility and Revolving Credit Facility. Benefit from Income Taxes Benefit from income taxes consists of a partial reduction in the valuation allowance related to the carryover tax basis in deferred tax liabilities from acquisitions netted with the recognition of deferred tax assets in India. Additionally, the Company incurred current income tax expense from states and its operations in India. We maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets for income tax purposes because we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Equity in Loss of Unconsolidated Entity Equity in loss of unconsolidated entity includes the results of our share of losses from our mortgage joint venture with Guaranteed Rate, Inc. 41 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 (in millions, except percentages) Revenue $ 5,629.1 100.0 % $ 4,885.0 100.0 % $ 6,018.0 100.0 % Operating expenses: Commissions and other related expense (1) 4,634.6 82.3 4,007.0 82.0 4,936.1 82.0 Sales and marketing (1) 368.7 6.5 435.4 8.9 575.1 9.6 Operations and support(1) 334.5 5.9 326.9 6.7 392.4 6.5 Research and development (1) 188.8 3.4 184.5 3.8 360.3 6.0 General and administrative (1) 165.2 2.9 125.7 2.6 208.1 3.5 Restructuring costs 9.7 0.2 30.4 0.6 49.1 0.8 Depreciation and amortization 82.4 1.5 90.0 1.8 86.3 1.4 Total operating expenses 5,783.9 102.7 5,199.9 106.4 6,607.4 109.8 Loss from operations (154.8) (2.7) (314.9) (6.4) (589.4) (9.8) Investment income, net 6.8 0.1 8.5 0.2 2.8 Interest expense (6.4) (0.1) (10.8) (0.2) (3.6) (0.1) Loss before income taxes and equity in loss of unconsolidated entity (154.4) (2.7) (317.2) (6.5) (590.2) (9.8) Benefit from income taxes 0.5 0.4 0.9 Equity in loss of unconsolidated entity (0.6) (3.3) (0.1) (12.2) (0.2) Net loss (154.5) (2.7) (320.1) (6.6) (601.5) (10.0) Net loss (income) attributable to non-controlling interests 0.1 (1.2) Net loss attributable to Compass, Inc. $ (154.4) (2.7 %) $ (321.3) (6.6 %) $ (601.5) (10.0 %) (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Commissions and other related expense $ $ 11.6 $ 59.0 Sales and marketing 31.5 35.0 42.0 Operations and support 16.5 16.1 15.6 Research and development 58.0 45.7 57.5 General and administrative 21.5 49.8 60.4 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 127.5 $ 158.2 $ 234.5 Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenue $ 5,629.1 $ 4,885.0 $ 744.1 15.2 % Revenue increased by $744.1 million, or 15.2%, for 2024 compared to 2023. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in the number of agents that joined our platform during 2023 and 2024 and a higher volume of transactions. The 42 Table of Contents Number of Principal Agents for 2024 was 17,752 compared to 14,683 for 2023. Total Transactions for 2024 increased to 205,122, an increase of 14.7% from 2023. Operating Expenses Commissions and other related expense Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Commissions and other related expense $ 4,634.6 $ 4,007.0 $ 627.6 15.7 % Percentage of revenue 82.3 % 82.0 % Commissions and other related expense increased by $627.6 million, or 15.7%, for 2024 compared to 2023. Included in Commissions and other related expense were non-cash expenses related to stock-based compensation of $11.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decline in stock-based compensation expense in 2024 as compared to 2023 was due to the discontinuation of the Agent Equity Program in 2023. Commissions and other related expense excluding such non-cash stock-based compensation expense was $4,634.6 million, or 82.3% of revenue for 2024, and $3,995.4 million, or 81.8% for 2023. The increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue of Commission and other related expense, excluding the non-cash stock-based compensation, was primarily driven by increased revenue and the impact of recent acquisitions, which operate in markets with higher average agent commissions splits compared to our core brokerage. Sales and marketing Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 368.7 $ 435.4 $ (66.7) (15.3 %) Percentage of revenue 6.5 % 8.9 % Sales and marketing expense decreased by $66.7 million, or 15.3%, for 2024 compared to 2023. Included in Sales and marketing expense were non-cash expenses related to stock-based compensation of $31.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 and $35.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease in stock-based compensation expense for 2024 as compared to 2023 was primarily due to the Company ceasing to offer share-based awards as incentives for agents. Sales and marketing expense excluding such non-cash stock-based compensation expense was $337.2 million, or 6.0% of revenue for 2024, and $400.4 million, or 8.2% for 2023, respectively. The decrease in sales and marketing expense in absolute dollars and on a percentage of revenue, excluding non-cash stock-based compensation expense, was primarily due to a decrease in agent marketing costs and a reduction in cash-based agent incentives. Operations and support Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Operations and support $ 334.5 $ 326.9 $ 7.6 2.3 % Percentage of revenue 5.9 % 6.7 % Operations and support expense increased by $7.6 million, or 2.3%, for 2024 compared to 2023. Included in Operations and support expense were non-cash expenses related to stock-based compensation of $16.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 and $16.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, which remained relatively flat. Operations and support expense excluding such non-cash stock-based compensation expense was $318.0 million, or 5.6% of revenue for 2024, and $310.8 million, or 6.4% for 2023. The increase in absolute dollars, excluding such non-cash stock-based compensation expense, was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs resulting from the Company's recent 43 Table of Contents acquisitions. The decrease of Operations and support expense, excluding such non-cash stock-based compensation expense, as a percentage of revenue was primarily related to the increase in revenue compared to the prior year period. Research and development Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Research and development $ 188.8 $ 184.5 $ 4.3 2.3 % Percentage of revenue 3.4 % 3.8 % Research and development expense increased by $4.3 million, or 2.3%, for 2024 compared to 2023. Included in Research and development expense were non-cash expenses related to stock-based compensation of $58.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 and $45.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in stock-based compensation expense for 2024 as compared to 2023 was primarily driven by forfeitures incurred due to the workforce reductions taken in connection with our restructuring activities in the prior year with no comparable activity in the current year. Research and development expense excluding non-cash stock-based compensation expense was $130.8 million, or 2.3% of revenue for 2024, and $138.8 million, or 2.8% for 2023. The decrease in absolute dollars and on a percentage of revenue basis, excluding such non-cash stock-based compensation expense, was primarily driven by a decrease in information technology related expenses as a result of the Company's cost reduction initiatives as described in Note 17 - "Restructuring Activities" in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. General and administrative Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ 165.2 $ 125.7 $ 39.5 31.4 % Percentage of revenue 2.9 % 2.6 % General and administrative expense increased by $39.5 million, or 31.4%, for 2024 compared to 2023. During the year ended December 31, 2024, General and administrative expense includes a charge of $57.5 million in connection with the Antitrust Lawsuits, which is discussed in Note 11 - "Commitments and Contingencies" to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Also included in General and administrative expense were non-cash expenses related to stock-based compensation of $21.5 million for 2024 and $49.8 million for 2023. The decrease in stock-based compensation expense for 2024 as compared to 2023 was primarily driven by the modification of the Company's Chief Executive Officer's performance-based RSUs at the end of 2023. General and administrative expense excluding non-cash stock-based compensation expense and the aforementioned litigation charge was $86.2 million, or 1.5% of revenue for 2024, and $75.9 million, or 1.6% of revenue for 2023. The increase in absolute dollars excluding such non-cash stock-based compensation expense and the litigation charge, was primarily due to the fact that during the year ended December 31, 2023, General and administrative expense included a benefit of $7.2 million for tax refunds resulting from a change in estimates for certain state taxes paid in prior years. These state taxes are now included in the Benefit from income taxes line of our consolidated statements of operations. On a percentage of revenue basis, excluding such non-cash stock-based compensation expense and the litigation charge, General and administrative expense remained relatively flat. 44 Table of Contents Restructuring costs Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Restructuring costs $ 9.7 $ 30.4 $ (20.7) (68.1 %) Percentage of revenue 0.2 % 0.6 % Restructuring costs during the year ended December 31, 2024 primarily consisted of lease terminations costs as a result of the accelerated amortization of various right-of-use assets and other related costs. Restructuring costs during the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily consisted of lease terminations costs and severance and other termination benefits for employees whose roles were eliminated. See Note 17 - "Restructuring Activities" in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report, for information. Depreciation and amortization Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Depreciation and amortization $ 82.4 $ 90.0 $ (7.6) (8.4 %) Percentage of revenue 1.5 % 1.8 % Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $7.6 million, or 8.4%, for 2024 compared to 2023. The decrease in absolute dollars and on a percentage of revenue basis was primarily driven by a year-over-year decrease in the amount of fixed assets whose depreciation was accelerated in connection the exit of offices. The remaining decline relates to a slow down in capital expenditures when compared to the prior year period. Investment income, net Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Investment income, net $ 6.8 $ 8.5 $ (1.7) (20.0 %) During the year ended December 31, 2024, investment income was $6.8 million and during year ended December 31, 2023, investment income was $8.5 million. Investment income, net decreased during the year ended December 31, 2024 as a result of the Company holding less short-term interest-bearing investments throughout the year. Interest expense Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Interest expense $ 6.4 $ 10.8 $ (4.4) (40.7 %) Interest expense decreased by $4.4 million, or 40.7%, for 2024 compared to 2023. The decrease from the prior year period was primarily driven by the interest expense incurred on our Revolving Credit Facility as a result of balances outstanding in the prior year on the credit facility with no comparable balance outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2024. 45 Table of Contents Benefit from income taxes Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Benefit from income taxes $ 0.5 $ 0.4 $ 0.1 25.0 % Benefit from income taxes increased by $0.1 million, or 25.0%, for 2024 compared to 2023. The change primarily resulted from the recognition of deferred tax assets in India. Equity in loss of unconsolidated entity Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Equity in loss of unconsolidated entity $ 0.6 $ 3.3 $ (2.7) (81.8 %) During the year ended December 31, 2024, equity in loss of unconsolidated entity was $0.6 million, and during the year ended December 31, 2023, equity in loss of unconsolidated entity was $3.3 million. These losses are from our mortgage joint venture with Guaranteed Rate, Inc. KEY BUSINESS METRICS AND NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES In addition to the measures presented in our consolidated financial statements, we use the following key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our business, measure our performance, develop financial forecasts and make strategic decisions. Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Total Transactions 205,122 178,848 211,538 Gross Transaction Value (in billions) $ 216.8 $ 186.1 $ 230.3 Number of Principal Agents(1)(2) 17,752 14,683 13,649 Net loss attributable to Compass, Inc. (in millions) $ (154.4) $ (321.3) $ (601.5) Net loss attributable to Compass, Inc. margin (2.7) % (6.6) % (10.0) % Adjusted EBITDA(3) (in millions) $ 126.0 $ (38.9) $ (210.0) Adjusted EBITDA margin(3) 2.2 % (0.8) % (3.5) % (1)During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company began to report its agent statistics as of the period end. The Company's Number of Principal Agents and year over year growth reported in this Annual Report is based on the year end count. (2)Excludes approximately 1,000 principal agents located in Texas who joined Compass during the second quarter of 2024 as part of the Latter & Blum Holdings, LLC acquisition. These agents operate with a flat fee / transaction fee based model, which is different from the Company's standard commission model. (3)Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information regarding our use of these measures and a reconciliation of Net loss attributable to Compass, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA, see the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Key Business Metrics Total Transactions Total Transactions is a key measure of the scale of our platform, which drives our financial performance. We define Total Transactions as the sum of all transactions closed on our platform in which our agent represented the buyer or seller in the purchase or sale of a home. We include a single transaction twice when one or more of our agents represent both the buyer and seller in any given transaction. This metric excludes rental transactions. 46 Table of Contents Our Total Transactions for the year ended December 31, 2024 were 205,122, an increase of 14.7% from the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in Total Transactions was primarily attributable to the brokerages acquired since the same period a year ago. Gross Transaction Value Gross Transaction Value is a key measure of the scale of our platform and success of our agents, which ultimately impacts revenue. Gross Transaction Value is the sum of all closing sale prices for homes transacted by agents on our platform. We include the value of a single transaction twice when our agents serve both the home buyer and home seller in the transaction. This metric excludes rental transactions. Gross Transaction Value is primarily driven by home values in the markets we serve and by changes in the number of our agents in those markets, as well as seasonality and macroeconomic factors. Our Gross Transaction Value for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $216.8 billion, an increase of 16.5% from the year ended December 31, 2023. The period-over-period increase was primarily driven by the increase in the number of agents on our platform. Number of Principal Agents The Number of Principal Agents represents the number of agents who are leaders of their respective agent teams or individual agents operating independently on our platform. The Number of Principal Agents is an indicator of the potential future growth of our business, as well as the size and strength of our platform. We use the Number of Principal Agents, in combination with our other key metrics such as Total Transactions and Gross Transaction Value, as a measure of agent productivity. Our Number of Principal Agents as of December 31, 2024 was 17,752, representing an increase of 20.9% from the year ago period primarily driven by the agents we acquired in 2024 from Latter & Blum Holdings, LLC and Parks Village Nashville, LLC. Our principal agents generate revenue across a diverse set of real estate markets in the U.S. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents our Net loss attributable to Compass, Inc. adjusted for depreciation and amortization, investment income, net, interest expense, stock-based compensation expense, benefit from income taxes and other items. During the periods presented, other items included (i) restructuring charges associated with lease termination and severance costs, (ii) acquisition-related expenses related to adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration and other forms of acquisition consideration and (iii) litigation charges in connection with the Antitrust Lawsuits and the Realogy Holdings Corp. matter. Adjusted EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by revenue. We use Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin in conjunction with GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our financial performance. We believe Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are also helpful to investors, analysts and other interested parties because these measures can assist in providing a more consistent and comparable overview of our operations across our historical financial periods. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin have limitations as analytical tools, however, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Because of these limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin alongside other financial performance measures, including Net loss attributable to Compass, Inc. and our other GAAP results. In evaluating Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, you should be aware that in the future we may incur expenses that are the same as or similar to some of the adjustments in this presentation. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin should not be construed to imply that our future results will be unaffected by the types of items excluded from the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are not presented in accordance with GAAP and the use of these terms varies from others in our industry. 47 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of Net loss attributable to Compass, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Net loss attributable to Compass, Inc. $ (154.4) $ (321.3) $ (601.5) Adjusted to exclude the following: Depreciation and amortization 82.4 90.0 86.3 Investment income, net (6.8) (8.5) (2.8) Interest expense 6.4 10.8 3.6 Stock-based compensation 127.5 158.2 234.5 Benefit from income taxes (0.5) (0.4) (0.9) Restructuring costs 9.7 30.4 49.1 Acquisition-related expenses(1) 4.2 1.9 11.2 Litigation charges(2) 57.5 10.5 Adjusted EBITDA $ 126.0 $ (38.9) $ (210.0) Net loss attributable to Compass, Inc. margin (2.7) % (6.6) % (10.0) % Adjusted EBITDA margin 2.2 % (0.8) % (3.5) % (1)Includes adjustments related to the change in fair value of contingent consideration and adjustments related to acquisition consideration treated as compensation expense over the underlying retention periods. See Note 3 - "Acquisitions" to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for more information. (2)For year ended December 31, 2024, Litigation charges represents an expense of $57.5 million incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2024 in connection with the Antitrust Lawsuits. See Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financials statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for more information. For the year ended December 31, 2022, Litigation charges represents an expense of $10.5 million incurred during the year ended December 31, 2022 in connection with the Realogy Holdings Corp. matter. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in the 2022 Form 10-K for more information. Adjusted EBITDA was income of $126.0 million compared to a loss of $38.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The improvement in Adjusted EBITDA during the year ended December 31, 2024 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily a result of the impact of our cost reduction initiatives and an increase in revenue which was driven by an increase in the number of agents on our platform during 2023 and 2024. The following tables provide supplemental information to the Reconciliation of Net loss attributable to Compass, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA presented above. These tables identify how each of the Operating expenses related financial statement line items contained within the accompanying consolidated statements of operations elsewhere in this Annual Report are impacted by the items excluded from Adjusted EBITDA (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2024 Commissions and other related expense Sales and marketing Operations and support Research and development General and administrative GAAP Basis $ 4,634.6 $ 368.7 $ 334.5 $ 188.8 $ 165.2 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation (31.5) (16.5) (58.0) (21.5) Acquisition-related expenses (4.2) Litigation charge (57.5) Non-GAAP Basis $ 4,634.6 $ 337.2 $ 313.8 $ 130.8 $ 86.2 48 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2023 Commissions and other related expense Sales and marketing Operations and support Research and development General and administrative GAAP Basis $ 4,007.0 $ 435.4 $ 326.9 $ 184.5 $ 125.7 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation (11.6) (35.0) (16.1) (45.7) (49.8) Acquisition-related expenses (1.9) Non-GAAP Basis $ 3,995.4 $ 400.4 $ 308.9 $ 138.8 $ 75.9 Year Ended December 31, 2022 Commissions and other related expense Sales and marketing Operations and support Research and development General and administrative GAAP Basis $ 4,936.1 $ 575.1 $ 392.4 $ 360.3 $ 208.1 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation (59.0) (42.0) (15.6) (57.5) (60.4) Acquisition-related expenses (11.2) Litigation charge (10.5) Non-GAAP Basis $ 4,877.1 $ 533.1 $ 365.6 $ 302.8 $ 137.2 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources are cash flows from operations and the net proceeds from the sale of common stock in connection with our initial public offering. Our cash requirements consist principally of working capital, general corporate needs, and mergers and acquisitions related activities. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations using available cash flows from operations. Ongoing investments include, but are not limited to, improvements in our technology platform and continued investments in our market footprint. As of December 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $223.8 million and an accumulated deficit of $2.7 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we generated $121.5 million in cash flows from operations. Additionally, we have a Revolving Credit Facility that matures in March 2026, which we can draw upon provided we maintain continued compliance with certain financial and non-financial covenants. See Note 9 - "Debt" to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for further details. As of December 31, 2024, we had $296.2 million available to be drawn under the Revolving Credit Facility. Further, we were in compliance with each of the financial and non-financial covenants. While our operating cash flows vary depending on the seasonality of the real estate business, we believe that the Company will have sufficient liquidity from cash on hand, its Revolving Credit Facility and future operations to sustain its business operations for the next twelve months and beyond. Concierge Facility In July 2020, we entered into a Revolving Credit and Security Agreement, or the Concierge Facility, with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent, and the several lenders party thereto, which was subsequently amended on July 29, 2021, August 5, 2022 and August 4, 2023. The Concierge Facility provides for a $75.0 million revolving credit facility and is solely used to finance a portion of our Compass Concierge Program. The Concierge Facility is secured primarily by the Concierge Receivables and cash of the Compass Concierge Program. The interest rate on the drawn down portion of the Concierge Facility was 7.49% as of December 31, 2024. Pursuant to the Concierge Facility, the principal amount, if any, is payable in full in January 2026, unless earlier terminated or extended. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, there were $23.6 million and $24.8 million, respectively, in borrowings outstanding under the Concierge Facility. We have the option to repay our borrowings under the Concierge Facility without premium or penalty prior to maturity. The Concierge Facility contains customary affirmative covenants, such as financial statement reporting requirements, as well as covenants that restrict its ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, sell certain receivables, declare dividends or make certain distributions, and undergo a merger or consolidation or certain other transactions. Additionally, in the event that we fail to comply with certain financial covenants that require us to meet certain liquidity- 49 Table of Contents based measures, the commitments under the Concierge Facility will automatically be reduced to zero and we will be required to repay any outstanding loans under the Concierge Facility. As of December 31, 2024, we were in compliance with the covenants under the Concierge Facility. Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreement In March 2021, we entered into a Revolving Credit and Guaranty Agreement, or the Revolving Credit Facility, with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and as collateral agent, or the Administrative Agent, and certain other lenders, which was subsequently amended on May 1, 2023. The Revolving Credit Facility provides for a $350.0 million revolving credit facility, subject to the terms and conditions of the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility also includes a letter of credit sublimit which is the lesser of (i) $125.0 million and (ii) the aggregate unused amount of the revolving commitments then in effect under the Revolving Credit Facility. Our obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries and are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets and subsidiary guarantors. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at either (i) a floating rate per annum equal to the base rate plus a margin of 0.50% or (ii) a rate per annum equal to the secured overnight financing rate, or SOFR, plus a margin of 1.50%. The base rate is equal to the highest of (a) the prime rate as quoted by The Wall Street Journal, (b) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50%, (c) the SOFR term rate for a one-month interest period plus 1.00%, and (d) 1.00%. The SOFR term rate is determined by the Administrative Agent as the forward-looking term rate plus a 0.10% adjustment. During an event of default under the Revolving Credit Facility, the applicable interest rates are increased by 2.0% per annum. We are also obligated to pay other customary fees for a credit facility of this type, including a commitment fee on a quarterly basis based on amounts committed but unused under the Revolving Credit Facility of 0.175% per annum, fees associated with letters of credit and administrative and arrangement fees. The principal amount, if any, is payable in full in March 2026, unless earlier terminated or extended. We have the option to repay our borrowings, and to permanently reduce the loan commitments in whole or in part, under the Revolving Credit Facility without premium or penalty prior to maturity. As of December 31, 2024, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility and outstanding letters of credit under the Revolving Credit Facility totaled approximately $53.8 million. The Revolving Credit Facility contains customary representations, warranties, financial covenants applicable to us and our restricted subsidiaries, affirmative covenants, such as financial statement reporting requirements, and negative covenants which restrict its ability, among other things, to incur liens and indebtedness, make certain investments, declare dividends, dispose of, transfer or sell assets, make stock repurchases and consummate certain other matters, all subject to certain exceptions. The financial covenants require that (i) we maintain liquidity of at least $150.0 million as of the last day of each fiscal quarter and each date of a credit extension and (ii) consolidated total revenue as of the last day of each fiscal quarter be equal to or greater than the specified amount corresponding to such period. Minimum liquidity is defined as unused amounts under the $350.0 million Revolving Credit Facility plus our unrestricted cash and that of our restricted subsidiaries. The minimum required consolidated revenue threshold for the trailing four fiscal quarters is $4,668.0 million during 2024 and thereafter. As of December 31, 2024, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility includes customary events of default that include, among other things, nonpayment of principal, interest or fees, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, violation of certain covenants, cross default to certain other indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency events, material judgments, change of control and certain material ERISA events. The occurrence of an event of default could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility. 50 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 (in millions) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 121.5 $ (25.9) $ (291.7) Net cash used in investing activities (36.6) (11.7) (100.1) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (28.0) (157.4) 135.4 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 56.9 $ (195.0) $ (256.4) Operating Activities For 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $121.5 million. The inflow was primarily due to a $154.5 million net loss adjusted for $215.1 million of non-cash charges and a net cash inflow due to changes in assets and liabilities of $60.9 million. The non-cash charges are primarily related to $127.5 million of stock-based compensation expense and $82.4 million of depreciation and amortization expense. The changes in assets and liabilities resulted in a cash inflow primarily due to an increase of $42.0 million in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $23.1 million increase in Commissions payable, a $21.3 million decrease in other currents assets and a decrease of $7.0 million in other non-current assets. The cash inflow from operations was partially offset by a $17.4 million outflow from net operating lease right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities, an increase of $8.0 million in accounts receivable due to timing of receipts, a decrease of $6.3 million in accounts payable due to timing of payments and a $0.8 million decrease in Compass Concierge receivables. The benefit to operating cash flow in 2024 provided by changes in assets and liabilities is impacted by timing and may reverse in future periods and negatively impact operating cash flows at that time. For 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $25.9 million. The outflow was primarily due to a $320.1 million net loss adjusted for $259.2 million of non-cash charges being offset by a net cash inflow due to changes in assets and liabilities of $35.0 million. The non-cash charges are primarily related to $158.2 million of stock-based compensation expense, $90.0 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $4.4 million of bad debt expense and $3.3 million of equity in loss of unconsolidated entity. The changes in assets and liabilities resulted in a cash inflow primarily due to a $21.4 million decrease in other currents assets, a $18.0 million decrease in Compass Concierge receivables, a $11.6 million increase in Commissions payable and a decrease of $9.1 million in other non-current assets. The cash inflow from operations was partially offset by a decrease of $10.6 million in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a decrease of $9.8 million in accounts payable due to timing of payments, an increase of $3.5 million in accounts receivable due to timing of receipts and a $1.2 million outflow from net operating lease right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities. For 2022, net cash used in operating activities was $291.7 million. The outflow was primarily due to a $601.5 million net loss adjusted for $339.0 million of non-cash charges and cash outflow due to changes in assets and liabilities of $29.2 million. The non-cash charges are primarily related to $234.5 million of stock-based compensation expense, $86.3 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $12.2 million of equity in loss of unconsolidated entity and $7.3 million of bad debt expense. The changes in assets and liabilities resulted in a cash outflow primarily due to a $36.5 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities, a $15.9 million decrease in Commissions payable, a $11.7 million increase in Compass Concierge receivables and a decrease of $4.8 million in accounts payable due to timing of payments. The cash outflow from operations was partially offset by a decrease of $17.6 million in other currents assets, a decrease of $9.8 million in other non-current assets, a decrease of $6.5 million in accounts receivable due to timing of receipts and a $5.8 million inflow from net operating lease right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities. Investing Activities During 2024, net cash used by investing activities was $36.6 million, consisting of $18.9 million in payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, $15.7 million in capital expenditures and $2.0 million for investments in an unconsolidated entity. During 2023, net cash used by investing activities was $11.7 million, consisting of $11.2 million in capital expenditures and $1.2 million for investment in an unconsolidated entity, partially offset by $0.7 million in net cash acquired from acquisitions. 51 Table of Contents During 2022, net cash used by investing activities was $100.1 million, consisting of $70.1 million in capital expenditures, $15.0 million in payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and $15.0 million for investment in an unconsolidated entity. Financing Activities During 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $28.0 million, primarily consisting of $35.0 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, $3.4 million in payments related to acquisitions, including payments of contingent consideration, and $1.2 million in net payments on drawdowns and repayments on the Concierge Facility, partially offset by $9.5 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $2.2 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. During 2023, net cash used in financing activities was $157.4 million, primarily consisting of $150.0 million in net repayments of drawdowns on the Revolving Credit Facility, $23.5 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, $14.6 million in payments related to acquisitions, including payments of contingent consideration, and $7.1 million in net payments on drawdowns and repayments on the Concierge Facility, partially offset by $32.3 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock in connection with the Strategic Transaction (see Note 12 - "Preferred Stock and Common Stock" to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for more information), $4.5 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options and $2.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. During 2022, net cash provided by financing activities was $135.4 million, primarily consisting of $150.0 million in proceeds from drawdowns on the Revolving Credit Facility, $15.7 million in net proceeds from drawdowns and repayments on the Concierge Facility and $9.0 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by $23.5 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards and $17.5 million in payments for acquisitions, including payments of contingent consideration. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2024: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years (in millions) Operating lease obligations(1) $ 560.9 $ 117.7 $ 197.1 $ 145.0 $ 101.1 Estimated undiscounted contingent consideration payments 35.4 3.3 20.4 7.9 3.8 Acquisition related payables 3.0 3.0 Purchase obligations 70.2 36.9 26.3 7.0 Total $ 669.5 $ 160.9 $ 243.8 $ 159.9 $ 104.9 _________ (1)As of December 31, 2024, we have additional operating leases for real estate that have not yet commenced of $15.3 million payable through 2035, which have been excluded from above. As of December 31, 2024, there were $23.6 million in borrowings outstanding under the Concierge Facility. We are required to pay an annual commitment fee of 0.35% if the Concierge Facility is utilized greater than 50% and 0.50%, if the Concierge Facility is utilized less than 50%. In addition, borrowings under the Concierge Facility bear interest at the term SOFR rate plus a margin of 2.75%. The effective interest rate was 7.49% as of December 31, 2024. The principal amount, if any, is payable in full in January 2026, unless earlier terminated or extended. For additional information, see the section titled Liquidity and Capital ResourcesConcierge Facility. As of December 31, 2024, we had no outstanding borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and outstanding letters of credit totaled approximately $53.8 million. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at either (i) a floating rate per annum equal to the base rate plus a margin of 0.50% or (ii) a rate per annum equal to SOFR plus a margin of 1.50%. During an event of default under the Revolving Credit Facility the applicable interest rates are increased by 2.0% per annum. We are also obligated to pay other customary fees for a credit facility of this type, including a commitment fee on a quarterly basis based on amounts committed but unused under the Revolving Credit Facility of 0.175% per annum, fees associated with letters of credit and administrative and arrangement fee. The principal amount, if 52 Table of Contents any, is payable in full in March 2026, unless earlier terminated or extended. For additional information, see the section titled Liquidity and Capital ResourcesRevolving Credit and Guaranty Agreement. We have irrevocable letters of credit with various financial institutions, primarily related to security deposits for leased facilities. As of December 31, 2024, we were contingently liable for $53.8 million, under these letters of credit which are collateralized by our Revolving Credit Facility. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We administer escrow and trust deposits which represent undistributed amounts for the settlement of real estate transactions. We are contingently liable for these escrow and trust deposits totaling $147.1 million and $120.0 million as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We did not have any other off-balance sheet arrangements as of or during the periods presented. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates and therefore, if material, our future financial statements will be affected. A thorough understanding of our critical accounting policies is essential when reviewing our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the critical accounting policies listed below are the most difficult management decisions as they involve the use of significant estimates and assumptions as described above. See Note 2 - " Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for more information. Revenue Recognition We generate revenue by assisting home sellers and buyers in listing, marketing, selling and finding homes. We hold the real estate brokerage license that is necessary under relevant state laws and regulations to provide brokerage services and therefore controls those services that are necessary to legally transfer real estate between home sellers and buyers. Although our agents are independent contractors, they cannot execute a real estate transaction without a brokerage license, which the Company possesses. We have the only contractual relationship for the sale or exchange of real estate with their clients. Accordingly, we are the principal in our transactions with home buyers and sellers. As principal, we recognize revenue in the gross amount of consideration to which we receive in exchange for those services. We concluded that our brokerage revenue contains a single performance obligation that is satisfied upon the closing of a real estate services transaction, at which point the entire transaction price is earned. Revenue is recognized upon the closing of a real estate transaction (i.e. purchase or sale of a home) since we are not entitled to any commission until the performance obligation is satisfied and are not owed any commission for unsuccessful transactions, even if services have been provided. We operate exclusively in the United States and generate substantially all of our revenue from commissions from home sellers and buyers. In addition to commission revenue, we generate revenue through integrated services related to the home transaction such as title and escrow services which comprised an insignificant amount of the consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022. Our management evaluated and determined that no disaggregation of revenue is necessary or appropriate. As we generally bill for our services at the time of revenue recognition, we do not have material deferred revenue or contract asset balances. In addition, we do not capitalize commissions paid to agents as incremental contract costs as there are no future benefits associated with the expenses. 53 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation expense for all stock-based awards based on the estimated fair value of the awards on the date of grant. Compensation expense is generally recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the service period based on the vesting requirements. We recognize forfeitures as they occur. We issue RSUs to employees, and to affiliated agents and in certain cases in connection with business combinations. In addition to the issuance of RSUs to agents as equity compensation for the provision of services, we previously offered RSUs to affiliated agents through the Agent Equity Program. The Agent Equity Program offered affiliated agents the ability to elect to have a portion of their commissions earned during a calendar year to be paid in the form of RSUs. RSUs issued in connection with the Agent Equity Program were granted at the beginning of the year following the calendar year in which the commissions were earned and are subject to the terms and conditions of the 2012 Stock Incentive Plan and the 2021 Equity Incentive Plan, as applicable. We discontinued the Agent Equity Program following the issuance of RSUs during the first quarter of 2023 related to the 2022 Agent Equity Program. For RSUs granted in connection with the 2021 and 2022 Agent Equity Programs, we determined the value of the stock-based compensation expense at the time the underlying commission was earned and recognized the associated expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods beginning on the closing date of the underlying real estate commission transactions. The stock-based compensation expense was recorded as a liability throughout the service periods and was reclassified to Additional paid-in capital at the end of the vesting period when the underlying RSUs were issued. On a limited basis, we have issued stock options and RSUs that contain service, performance and market-based vesting conditions. Such awards were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation and the underlying expense will be recognized as the associated vesting conditions are met. For stock options, which we issue to employees, affiliated agents and in certain cases in connection with business combinations, we generally estimate the fair value using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which requires the input of subjective assumptions, including (1) the fair value of common stock, (2) the expected stock price volatility, (3) the expected term of the award, (4) the risk-free interest rate and (5) expected dividends. During the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, the number of stock options granted was immaterial. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For a description of our recently adopted accounting pronouncements and accounting pronouncements issued but not yet adopted, see Note 2 - "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.