Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Fiscal 2024 Highlights and Business Outlook for Fiscal 2025. For a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA, see Part II Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Comparison of Fiscal 2024 and 2023 Adjusted EBITDA. More Information and Where to Find It Our Internet website is www.comtech.com, at which you can find our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including investor letters, press releases, annual reports, quarterly reports, current reports, and any amendments to those filings. We also make announcements regarding company developments and financial and operating performance through our blog, Signals, at www.comtech.com/signals. We also use our website to disseminate other material information to our investors (on the Home Page and in the "Investor Relations" section). Among other things, we post on our website our press releases and information about our public conference calls (including the scheduled dates, times and the methods by which investors and others can listen to those calls), and we make available for replay webcasts of those calls and other presentations for a limited time. We also use social media channels to communicate with customers and the public about our Company, our products, services, and other issues, and we use social media and the Internet to communicate with investors, including information about our stockholder meetings. Information and updates about our Annual Meetings will continue to be posted on our website at www.comtech.com in the "Investors" section. None of the information on our website, blog or any other website identified herein is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and such information should not be considered a part of this Form 10-K. 10 Strategic Transformation In order to position ourselves to take advantage of additional growth opportunities and meet our strategic objectives, we have followed, and will continue to follow, a disciplined approach in identifying, executing and capitalizing on acquisitions and divestitures of businesses and enabling technologies. Material acquisitions and divestitures in the recent past include: On November 7, 2023, we completed the divestiture of our solid-state RF microwave high power amplifiers and control components product line, which was included in our Satellite and Space Communications segment, pursuant to a stock sale agreement entered into on October 11, 2023 (the "PST Divestiture"). Net proceeds from the PST Divestiture in fiscal 2024 were $33.2 million and used in part to repay a portion of our outstanding debt at the time, as well as to fund working capital needs. On October 17, 2024, we announced that we are executing a strategy to transform Comtech into a pure-play satellite and space communications company. Ongoing and future actions supporting our transformation strategy include: an exploration of strategic alternatives for our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment, which is well underway; the pursuit of further portfolio-shaping opportunities to enhance profitability, efficiency and focus; and the implementation of additional operational initiatives to both achieve profitable results from operations as well as to align our go-forward cost structure with a pure-play focus on satellite and space communications. In connection with this transformation strategy, we have also undertaken a detailed evaluation of our Satellite and Space Communications segment's product portfolio to identify opportunities to divest, separate and/or rationalize businesses or facilities that are not core to our go-forward focus. Consistent with this effort, in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we made the decision to exit our operations in Basingstoke, United Kingdom. Such operations were established in connection with the prior management teams fiscal 2020 acquisition of CGC Technology Limited, which primarily served customers in Europe. Following the acquisition, Comtech continued to invest in the Basingstoke facility to advance LEO constellation-based antenna technologies in anticipation of significant production orders. Taking into consideration the significant ongoing investment as well as unfavorable contract terms on prospective antenna sales, we concluded such operations would not generate an attractive return on invested capital and made the decision to exit these operations. Furthermore, over the past several months, we have conducted an intensive review of our product portfolio to focus future investment on our most strategic, high-margin revenue opportunities within the Satellite and Space Communications segment. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in a transaction or other strategic changes or outcomes. While anticipated to improve our profitability in future periods, such actions may result in near-term restructuring charges. Sales, Marketing and Customer Support Sales and marketing strategies include direct sales through sales, marketing and engineering personnel, indirect sales through independent representatives, value-added resellers, and sales through a combination of the foregoing. We devote resources to evaluating and responding to requests for proposals by governmental agencies around the world and, as needed, we employ the use of specialized consultants to develop our proposals and bids. We intend to continue to expand international marketing efforts, as needed, by engaging additional independent sales representatives, distributors and value-added resellers and by establishing foreign sales offices. In addition, we expect to leverage our relationships with larger companies (such as prime contractors to the U.S. government and large mobile wireless operators) to market our technology solutions. In fiscal 2025, we expect to continue expanding our social media and Internet presence and further developing an updated marketing and branding strategy. We are pre-qualified as an approved vendor for certain government contracts. We collaborate in sales efforts under various arrangements with integrators. Our marketing efforts also include advertising, public relations, speaking engagements and attending and sponsoring industry conferences. Our management, technical and marketing personnel establish and maintain relationships with customers. Our sales strategies include a commitment to providing ongoing customer support for our systems and equipment. This support involves providing direct access to engineering staff or trained technical representatives to resolve technical or operational issues. Our products and services in many of our product lines have long sales cycles. Once a product is designed into a system, customers may be reluctant to change the incumbent supplier due to the extensive qualification process and potential redesign required in using alternative sources. In addition, in recent years, we have found that overall sales cycles for each of our product lines have significantly increased, as we continue to support our customer's overall migration and upgrade to newer designs and technologies. 11 Sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of related net sales, are as follows: Fiscal Years Ended July 31, 2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 Satellite and Space Communications Terrestrial and Wireless Networks Consolidated U.S. government 55.4 % 49.9 % 45.6 % 1.1 % 1.7 % 2.4 % 33.7 % 31.3 % 27.2 % Domestic 15.1 % 16.7 % 18.0 % 89.4 % 89.2 % 88.1 % 44.8 % 44.7 % 47.8 % Total U.S. 70.5 % 66.6 % 63.6 % 90.5 % 90.9 % 90.5 % 78.5 % 76.0 % 75.0 % International 29.5 % 33.4 % 36.4 % 9.5 % 9.1 % 9.5 % 21.5 % 24.0 % 25.0 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the DoD, intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. For fiscal 2024, except for the U.S. government, there were no customers that represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales. For fiscal 2023 and 2022, included in domestic sales are sales to Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon"), which were 10.6% and 11.1% of consolidated net sales, respectively. International sales for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $115.9 million, $132.1 million and $121.4 million, respectively. When we sell internationally, we denominate most of our contracts in U.S. dollars. Some of our sales to international customers are paid for by letters of credit or on an open account. From time to time, some of our international customers may require us to provide performance guarantees. Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022. Backlog Our backlog as of July 31, 2024 was $798.9 million (of which $278.9 million was attributed to the Satellite and Space Communications segment and $520.0 million was attributed to the Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment). Such amount represented a new record level of consolidated backlog for our Company. We estimate that a substantial portion of the backlog as of July 31, 2024 will be recognized as sales during the next twenty-four month period, with the rest thereafter. Such estimate could be impacted by our transformation strategy discussed above, under the section "Strategic Transformation." At July 31, 2024, 66.6% of our backlog consisted of orders for use by U.S. commercial customers, 18.8% consisted of U.S. government contracts, subcontracts and government funded programs and 14.6% consisted of orders for use by international customers (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that will be sold to international customers). Our backlog is defined as orders (sometimes also referred to herein as bookings) that we believe to be firm. Backlog that is derived from U.S. government orders relates to U.S. government contracts that have been awarded, signed and funded. Backlog for our U.S. government customers also includes amounts appropriated by Congress and allotted to the contract by the procuring government agency. Such backlog does not include the value of options that may be exercised in the future on multi-year contracts, nor does it include the value of additional purchase orders that we may receive under indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts or basic ordering agreements. In some cases, such as contracts received from large U.S. based telecommunication companies, our backlog may include the value of customer authorizations to proceed or may be computed by multiplying the most recent months contract or revenue by the months remaining under the existing long-term agreements, which we consider to be the best available information for anticipating revenue under those agreements. When we acquire a company with existing contracts, we only record bookings for those contracts that meet our definition. Almost all of the contracts in our backlog (including firm orders previously received from the U.S. government) are subject to modification, cancellation at the convenience of the customer, or for default in the event that we are unable to perform under the contract. Please see "Strategic Transformation" section discussed above, as well as Item 1A Risk Factors under Part I of this Form 10-K for more information about risks pertaining to recognition of our backlog. 12 A significant portion of the backlog from our U.S. commercial customers relates to large, multi-year contracts to provide state and local governments (and their agencies) with 911 public safety and location technology solutions. Although the contracts themselves represent legal, binding obligations of these governments, funding is often subject to the approval of budgets (for example, on an annual or bi-annual basis). Although funding for these multi-year contracts is dependent on future budgets being approved, we include the full estimated value of these large, multi-year contracts in our backlog given the critical nature of the services being provided and the positive historical experience of our state and local government customers passing their respective budgets. There can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, or that any contract included in backlog will be profitable. There is a higher degree of risk in this regard with respect to unfunded backlog. The actual amount and timing of any revenue is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. The actual recognition of revenue on contracts included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change, a customer may not follow up with order details (e.g., delivery instructions), fluctuations in currency exchange rates after an order is placed could cause our products to become too expensive for a foreign customer, a customers program could be canceled, a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early due to changes in a customers priorities, funding may not be included in future budgets, actual indirect rates being reimbursed on U.S. government contracts may ultimately be less than those indirect rates included in our initial proposals, or an option that we had assumed would be exercised is not exercised. As a result of these contingencies, we may adjust our backlog if we determine that such orders are no longer firm and/or funded. In addition to adjustments from these types of contingencies, variations in backlog from time to time are attributable, in part, to changes in sales mix, the timing of contract proposals, the timing of contract awards, delivery schedules on specific contracts, new bookings obtained through acquisitions or reductions due to divestitures or other restructuring type activities. A large majority of the solutions in our satellite ground infrastructure technologies product line within our Satellite and Space Communications segment operate under short lead times. Backlog in both our Satellite and Space Communications segment and Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment has been, and could be, highly influenced by the nature and timing of orders received from federal, state and local governments and defense-related agencies, causing such orders to be subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by such customers. As a result, we believe our backlog and orders, at any point in time, are not necessarily indicative of the total sales anticipated for any future period. Research and Development We have established leading technology positions in our fields through internal and customer-funded research and development activities. Internal research and development expenses are reported as research and development expenses for financial reporting purposes and were $24.1 million, $48.6 million and $52.5 million in fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively, representing 4.5%, 8.8% and 10.8% of total consolidated net sales, respectively, for these periods. Customer-funded research and development activities relate to the adaptation of our basic technology to specialized customer requirements which is recoverable under contracts and is reflected in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Certain of our government customers also contract with us from time to time to conduct research on telecommunications software, equipment and systems. During fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, we were reimbursed by customers for such activities in the amounts of $18.9 million, $14.0 million and $9.8 million, respectively. In addition to the recent increases in customer-funded research and development activities, in fiscal 2024, we also experienced an increase in engineering efforts related to cost to fulfill contract assets and internal use software, for which we capitalized $2.9 million and $3.8 million, respectively. As a result of these trends and the impact of prior reductions in force announced in fiscal 2023, our research and development expenses for financial reporting purposes significantly decreased in fiscal 2024 as compared to historical periods. During fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, we incurred $4.1 million, $3.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively, of strategic emerging technology costs for next-generation satellite technology to advance our solutions offerings to be used with new broadband satellite constellations. A significant portion of the fiscal 2024 costs related to our steerable antenna operations in Basingstoke, United Kingdom, which we decided to exit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, as discussed above in the section "Strategic Transformation." We are evaluating this new market in relation to our long-term business strategies, and expect to incur additional costs in fiscal 2025. However, such costs will be reported in the future as part of our ongoing research and development activities and not added back to our Adjusted EBITDA. 13 Intellectual Property We rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how, continuing technological innovation and, with respect to certain key technologies, patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. The products we sell require significant engineering design and manufacturing expertise. For technological capabilities that are not protected by patents or licenses, we generally rely on the expertise of our employees and our learned experiences in both the design and manufacture of our products and the delivery of our services. Some of our key Satellite and Space Communications segment technology is protected by patents that are significant to protecting our proprietary technology. We have been issued several U.S. patents relating to forward error correction technology that is utilized in our TPC-enabled satellite modems. Due to our market leadership position, we do not expect that upon expiration of these patents, our future results will be negatively impacted. We have a portfolio of several hundred patents worldwide relating to wireless location services, text messaging, GPS ephemeris data, emergency public safety data routing, electronic commerce and other areas. To-date, our strategy has been to avoid offensive and defensive patent litigation and focus on building meaningful partnerships with other companies through direct licensing, cross licensing, and other forms of agreements. We do not believe that any single patent or group of patents, patent application or patent license agreement is material to our operations. We have filed additional patent applications for certain apparatus and processes we believe we have invented covering key features of location services, wireless text alerts, SMS Center, mobile-originated data and E911 network software. There is no assurance that any patent application will result in a patent being issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other patent offices, nor is there any guarantee that any issued patent will be valid and enforceable. Additionally, foreign patent rights may or may not be available or pursued in any technology area for which U.S. patent applications have been filed. Almost all the products and services we sell to the U.S. government include technology and other technical know-how that we have internally developed. In past instances where we have provided government-purpose rights, to our knowledge, the U.S. government has not exercised any of these rights. To the extent that we have provided or will provide government-purpose rights in the future, we believe that given the rapidly changing nature of our technology, our future success will depend primarily on the technical competence and creative skill of our personnel, rather than any contractual protection. Competition Our businesses are highly competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. Some of our competitors are substantially larger, have significantly greater financial, marketing, research and development, technological and operating resources and broader product lines than we have. Other companies are developing new technologies and the shift towards open standards such as IP-based satellite networks will likely result in increased competition. A significant technological breakthrough by others, including new companies, our existing competitors and our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success depends on, among other things, our ability to keep pace with such changes and developments and to respond to the increasing variety of electronic equipment users and transmission technologies. Some large defense-based companies have subsidiaries or divisions that compete against us in one or more business segments. In addition, new and potential competitors are always emerging. Certain of our customers, such as prime contractors who currently outsource their engineering and manufacturing requirements to us, have technological capabilities in our product areas and could choose to replace our products with products they develop. In some cases, we partner or team with companies (both large and mid-tier) to compete against other teams for large defense programs. In some cases, these same companies may be among our competitors. 14 Listed below, in alphabetical order, are some of our competitors in each of our two business segments: Satellite and Space Communications Advantech Co., Ltd., Aethercomm Inc. (acquired by Frontgrade Technologies, a portfolio company of Veritas Capital), Agilis Satcom, AMERGINT Technologies, Inc., Amkom Design Group Inc., AnaCom, Inc., Codan Limited, Communications and Power Industries (also referred to as "CPI"), Datum Systems, Inc., dB Control Corp. (a subsidiary of HEICO Corp.), ETM Electromatic Inc. (acquired by Teledyne Technologies Inc.), Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd., Empower RF Systems, Inc., General Dynamics Corporation, Hughes Network Systems, LLC (a subsidiary of EchoStar), KVH Industries, Inc., Kratos Defense and Security Solutions (Including Kratos RT Logic and Avtec Systems, Inc.), L3Harris Technologies, Inc., Mission Microwave Technologies, LLC, ND Satcom GmbH, Novelsat LTD, Panasonic Corporation, Paradise Datacom Ltd. (a subsidiary of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated), Raytheon Technologies Corporation, SatixFy Israel Ltd., ST Engineering iDirect, Inc. (including Newtec), Starlink Services, LLC (a wholly owned subsidiary of SpaceX), Terrasat Communications Inc., Trace Systems Inc., TrellisWare Technologies, Inc., Ultra Intelligence and Communications, and ViaSat, Inc. Terrestrial and Wireless Networks AT&T Inc., Atos, Bandwidth.com, Carbyne, Central Square Technologies, 8x8, Inc., Everbridge, Inc., Hexagon AB, Immersive Labs, INdigital (acquired by Novacap), Intersec, Intrado Corporation (formerly West Corporation), LM Ericsson, Lumen Technologies, Inc. (formerly CenturyLink, Inc.), Mobilaris AB, Mobile Arts AB, Motorola Solutions, Inc., NGA911, NextNav, Inc., Nokia Networks (a subsidiary of Nokia Corporation), Polaris Wireless, RapidDeploy, Inc., RapidSOS, Rave Mobile Safety, Sinch AB (Inteliquent), Synergem Technologies, SS8, TomTom N.V., Versaterm Public Safety Inc., WestTel, and Zetron. We believe that competition in all our markets is based primarily on technology innovation, product performance, reputation, delivery times, customer support and price. Due to our proprietary know-how, we believe we can develop, produce and deliver products and services on a cost-effective basis faster than many of our competitors. Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability We recognize the need for driving corporate responsibility within our organization, throughout our supplier network and in our communities. To drive this responsibility, we will continue to target effective corporate governance, ethical behavior in the workplace and social responsibility, while also updating and enhancing this focus with initiatives, such as: refreshing the roles and responsibilities of the committees of our Board of Directors, including with the establishment of an Environment, Social and Governance ("ESG") task force supervised by our Board of Directors, developing a company-wide People Strategy to foster and promote workplace talent and diversity, and organizing a company-wide strategic sourcing group that will be accountable for tracking and driving resource reduction targets, such as resource-efficient manufacturing, reduction of hazardous substances, and take-back, recycling and reuse of products. Human Capital Our employees are one of our most valuable assets and we believe our success depends on the talent we attract and retain. Our comprehensive people strategy continues to focus on developing a meaningful plan to enhance our employees engagement and interests, which will complement and build on our strong foundation. We are passionate about building meaningful employee engagement and happiness through a variety of programs, initiatives, and other opportunities that are addressed in our People Strategy. As part of this strategy, we are providing a foundation for a diverse, inclusive and equitable workplace where employees feel they belong, their views are valued, and they are empowered to pursue opportunities they are passionate about. Our People Strategy is also focused on meeting and executing our strategic recruitment initiatives, developing and promoting talent; supporting competitive benefits and wellness programs; and emphasizing the importance of our employees health, safety and wellness. Fostering Proactive Belonging We believe the principle of hospitality acts as a catalyst for fostering a sense of proactive belonging, a key component for achieving a sustainable impact. At the heart of our approach is the intentional act of bringing people together across social, cultural, and experiential gaps. By creating opportunities for provocative thinking and meaningful experiences, we are able to challenge assumptions that disrupt our innate habits of thinking and behaving. 15 We expect our employees and contractors to foster authentic connections, cultivate hospitable spaces, embrace disorienting dilemmas, and emphasize continuous learning. Our policy promotes equal employment opportunities without discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, disability, or any other status protected by law. Our Chief People Officer is committed to driving these policies and efforts across the enterprise to cultivate a strong culture of inclusivity. We value a workforce that is diverse by thought. To promote this initiative, we reach out to a variety of institutions, attend recruiting events aimed at attracting talent of various backgrounds and cultures; and emphasize creating opportunities of belonging during our talent, promotion, and succession planning. At least once per month we organize an event or engagement where employees are encouraged to participate to celebrate our workforce and our communities. Events include Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month, International Womens Day, Breast Cancer Awareness Month, and Pride Month, among others. In fiscal 2024, we emphasized our commitment to celebrations like Pride Month by featuring a lunch and learn webinar led by one of our Executive Team Leaders who discussed their journey as a member of the LGBTIQA+ community. Each year we also commemorate "Honor Week by spotlighting our veteran employees and recognizing their accomplishments. In fiscal 2024, we also launched our first Employee Resource Group focusing on Womens Leadership to deepen and expand our efforts in this space. Employee Workforce Employee workforce consists of the following at July 31, 2024 and 2023: 2024 2023 Women 24 % 22 % People of Color* 39 % 38 % Veterans 12 % 10 % People with Disabilities 7 % 5 % *People of Color include employees who identify with any race other than white. Developing and Retaining Talent Our employees are one of our most valuable assets and we believe our success depends on the talent we attract and retain. Our comprehensive people strategy continues to focus on developing a meaningful plan to enhance our employees engagement and interests, which will complement and build on our strong foundation. To meet and execute our strategic business goals, we are focused on sourcing, attracting, and retaining top talent, including those with engineering, science, and technical backgrounds. To boost our talent attraction efforts, we partner with local university student organizations, such as Arizona State University, to educate students about our work and to hire interns throughout our organization. This year, our total internship class was comprised of 24 students, up from 12 students in fiscal 2023. We designed our internship program to be a hands-on program that exposes students to a wide variety of activities and allows them to learn from real-world projects. All interns are paired with a mentor and are invited to attend weekly lunch and learns to receive insights about our culture and working environment. We value employee development at all career stages and performance levels. We have made significant investments to provide ongoing training and career development opportunities by offering courses through our online learning management system. We offer job-specific skills training to promote and develop advancement within the organization and to enhance skills. In fiscal 2024 we launched Comtech University through a learning management system that is available year-round for development courses facilitated by a training coordinator. We are developing additional courses focusing on financial, leadership, and lean management skills. We also developed a Program Management Office academy for program management employees which includes courses and training to become a certified project manager and introduce company-wide best practices and procedures. 16 We are working to build stronger employee engagement through several new initiatives. We believe that strong communication is key to providing the foundation for an engaged workforce. Company news, employee opportunities, company initiatives, and events are communicated through our internal and external blogs and our redesigned company-wide intranet. Since launching our new MyComtech intranet site, we have identified new ways to recognize our employees. We commenced our Meet the Team series profiling one employee each month in a monthly article released on our intranet. Through the series, employees are able to learn about a fellow team member including their current position, career path, background, and interests outside of work. Mentorship and collegiality are strongly valued at Comtech. We value exceptional employees who make a difference to the communities where we operate. In addition to spotlighting employee achievements through our communication channels, we have introduced other initiatives such as awards to motivate and recognize employees who go the extra mile. At July 31, 2024, we had 1,676 employees (including temporary employees and contractors), 1,048 of whom were engaged in production and production support, 337 in research and development and other engineering support and 291 in marketing and administrative functions. None of our U.S. based employees are represented by a labor union. Of our 1,676 employees, 345 employees are based outside of the United States, including 142 employees in Canada, 88 employees in the United Kingdom, and 87 employees in India. We believe that our employee relations are good. Subsequent to our fiscal year end, headcount based in the United Kingdom was significantly reduced as a result of our fourth quarter of fiscal 2024 decision to cease operations at such location. Safety and Wellness We strive to maintain a robust health, safety and wellness program to ensure a healthy work environment, promote workforce resiliency, and enhance business value. We encourage employee participation to identify opportunities for improvement and review and monitor our performance with safety committees at our local sites. Local safety committees identify safety programs and ensure completion of all training and target learning objectives. Employee wellness is important to Comtech. All employees and their households have access to an employee assistance program, as well as a health advocate program to help with all aspects of benefits, family life, financial concerns, legal issues and transition to retirement. Assistance is available 365 days per year, 24 hours per day. This year employees had an opportunity to participate in wellness events as a company-wide challenge. We rigorously review our benefit and compensation plans to maintain competitive packages that reflect the wellness needs of our workforce and the marketplace. These programs include 401(k) plans, comprehensive health packages, and welfare benefits, among many others. We support pay equity for all employees within the same geographic area, experience level, and performance standards. This year we added several new benefits including a legal plan and discounted pet insurance. Environment We are committed to reducing our environmental impact across our value chain, including in the design of our products, operation of our facilities, and procurement of materials. We are also committed to maintaining compliance with the various global environmental regulations that are applicable to our business segments, including with the respect to the waste and emissions generated at our facilities. Our Board of Directors is responsible for the oversight of our environmental efforts, and the management of climate-related issues is overseen by our Chief Legal Officer. In September 2023, we completed our first climate change disclosure through CDP, which includes a baseline greenhouse gas inventory for company-wide Scope 1 and 2 emissions. In fiscal 2024, we completed our second Greenhouse Gas ("GHG") inventory. Having established a foundation, we are working to build on our environmental strategy and initiatives. We seek to increase efficient usage of building space, respond to increased work-from-home and reduced requirements for office space, and encourage reduced employee commuting. We offer our employees incentives to promote greener commuting options through rideshare programs. We are committed to providing a workplace which values the health, safety, and well-being of our employees, contractors, and visitors to our facilities, complying with Environment, Health and Safety ("EHS") legal requirements, and minimizing EHS risk. In fiscal 2024, we developed a comprehensive EHS Management System ("EHSMS"), designed to align with the core elements of international standards for environmental and occupational health and safety management systems, while placing a risk-based focus on the elements most relevant to our operations. The EHSMS has the goals of engaging employees at all levels of the organization in the prevention of work-related injuries and illnesses, reducing environmental impacts, and fostering a culture of continuous improvement. 17 U.S. Government Contracts and Security Clearances The U.S. government operates on an October-to-September fiscal year. Generally, in February of each year, the President of the United States presents to the U.S. Congress ("Congress") the proposed budget for the upcoming fiscal year and from February through September of each year, the appropriations and authorization committees of Congress review the Presidents budget proposals and establish the funding levels for the upcoming fiscal year. Once these levels are enacted into law, the Executive Office of the President administers the funds to the agencies. Thereafter, we can receive orders pursuant to sole-source or competitively awarded contracts, which we describe below. The U.S. government may be unable to complete its budget process before the end of any given government fiscal year and when the fiscal budget is not approved in a timely manner, the U.S. government is required either to shut down or be funded pursuant to a "continuing resolution" that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue operations but does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for products and services we provide. Sole-source contracts are generally awarded to a single contractor without a formal competition when a single contractor is deemed to have an expertise or technology superior to that of competing contractors or when there is an urgent need by the U.S. government that cannot wait for a full competitive process. Potential suppliers compete informally through research and development and marketing efforts. Competitively-bid contracts are awarded based on a formal proposal evaluation established by the procuring agency and interested contractors prepare bids. Competitively-bid contracts are awarded after a formal bid and proposal competition among suppliers. The U.S. government has a stated policy direction to reduce the number of sole-source contract awards across all procuring agencies. In addition, the U.S. government is increasing the use of multiple-award IDIQ contracts to increase its procurement options. IDIQ contracts allow the U.S. government to select a group of eligible contractors for the same program. When the government awards IDIQ contracts to multiple bidders under the same program, a company that has already competed to be selected as a participant in the program must subsequently compete for individual delivery orders. As a result of this U.S. government shift toward multiple award IDIQ contracts, we expect to face greater competition for future U.S. government contracts and, at the same time, greater opportunities for us to participate in program areas that we do not currently participate in. As a U.S. government contractor and subcontractor, we are subject to a variety of rules and regulations, such as the Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR"). Individual agencies can also have acquisition regulations. For example, the DoD implements the FAR through the U.S. Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (commonly known as "DFARS"). For all Federal government entities, the FAR regulates the phases of any product or service acquisition, including: acquisition planning, competition requirements, contractor qualifications, protection of source selection and vendor information, and acquisition procedures. In addition, the FAR addresses the allowability of supplier costs, while Cost Accounting Standards address how those costs can be allocated to contracts. The FAR also subjects suppliers to audits and other government reviews. These reviews cover issues such as cost, performance and accounting practices relating to our contracts. The government may challenge a supplier's costs and fees or require corrective actions which can delay programs and increase our costs. Suppliers are also required to comply with the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual which relates to the handling of classified materials and programs and is administered by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA). Suppliers who do not comply with these various regulations may lose and/or become ineligible for facility security clearances and/or participation in classified and non-classified programs. Under firm fixed-price contracts, we perform for an agreed-upon price and we can derive benefits from cost savings, but bear the risk of cost overruns. Our cost-reimbursable type contracts typically provide for reimbursement of allowable costs incurred plus a negotiated fee. Cost-plus-incentive-fee orders typically provide for sharing with the U.S. government savings accrued from orders performed for less than the target costs and costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), and for the supplier to carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. In fiscal 2024, $182.3 million or 33.7% of our consolidated net sales were to the U.S. government (including sales to prime contractors to the U.S. government). Of this amount, firm fixed-price and cost-reimbursable type contracts (including fixed-fee, incentive-fee and time and material type contracts) accounted for $135.5 million and $46.8 million, respectively. 18 Regulatory Matters In addition to the rules and regulations that pertain to us as a U.S. government contractor and subcontractor, we are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal governmental regulations. Our products that are incorporated into wireless communications systems must comply with various government regulations, including those of the FCC. Our manufacturing facilities, which may store, handle, emit, generate and dispose of hazardous substances that are used in the manufacture of our products, are subject to a variety of local, state and federal regulations, including those issued by the Environmental Protection Agency. Our products are also subject to European Union directives related to the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. Our international sales are subject to U.S. and foreign regulations such as the Arms Export Control Act, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ("IEEPA"), the International Traffic in Arms Regulations ("ITAR"), the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR") and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"), the Department of Commerce ("DoC") and their foreign counterparts as well as other applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We must comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the U.S. and other countries. Certain of our products and systems may require licenses from U.S. government agencies for export from the U.S. or other countries, and some of our products are not permitted to be exported. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain necessary export licenses, and such failure would materially adversely affect our operations. If we are unable to receive appropriate export authorizations in the future, we may be prohibited from selling our products and services internationally, which may limit our sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in certain cases, U.S. and foreign export controls also severely limit unlicensed technical discussions, such as discussions with any persons who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents. As a result, in cases where we may need an export license, our ability to compete against a non-U.S. domiciled foreign company that may not be subject to the same U.S. laws may be materially adversely affected. In addition, we are subject to the FCPA and other local laws that generally bar bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant sanctions, including disgorgement of profits, fines, and criminal sanctions against us, our officers, our directors, or our employees, more onerous compliance requirements, more extensive debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business. A violation of any of the regulations enumerated above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements could further restrict our ability to deliver services to our international customers or negatively impact our business, including the addition of a country to the list of sanctioned countries under the IEEPA or similar legislation. In the past, we have self-reported violations of export control laws or regulations to the U.S. Department of State, Directorate of Defense Trade Controls ("DDTC"), DoC, OFAC and their foreign counterparts. In addition, we have made various commitments to U.S. government agencies that oversee trade and export matters that we will maintain certain policies and procedures including maintaining a company-wide Office of Trade Compliance and conducting ongoing internal assessments and reporting any future violations to those agencies. Our financial reporting, corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices are governed by laws such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, and rules and regulations issued by the SEC. The SEC has adopted rules which require, among other things, public companies to conduct certain inquiries to determine whether or not Conflict Minerals (as that term is defined in the SEC rules) that are necessary to the functionality of their manufactured products or their product's production processes originated in a Covered Country (as that term is defined in the SEC rules) and ultimately file a report with the SEC. Conflict Minerals are widely used in many industries, including the telecommunications industry and almost all of our products include component parts purchased from third-party suppliers and we must rely heavily on information received from suppliers to determine the origin of those materials. We have implemented a due diligence program consistent with the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development guidelines to collect information concerning the country of origin of Conflict Minerals and in that regard, have adopted a policy that requires our suppliers (both public and private) to commit to a code of conduct relating to the responsible sourcing of minerals and to establish a policy to reasonably assure that the products they manufacture do not contain Conflict Minerals that originated in a Covered Country. Efforts to comply with this SEC rule have resulted in additional costs to us and, we believe, to our suppliers. As such, the availability of raw materials used in our operations could be negatively impacted and/or raw material prices could increase. Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage and could harm our reputation. 19 Laws and regulations have been enacted that affect companies conducting business on the Internet, including the European General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR"). The GDPR imposes certain privacy related requirements on companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the European Union that are currently different than those in the United States and include significant penalties for non-compliance. Similarly, there are several legislative proposals in the United States, at both the federal and state level, that could impose new obligations in areas affecting our business, such as liability for personal data protection. In addition, some countries are considering or have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services. Our costs to comply with the GDPR as well any other similar laws and regulations that emerge may negatively impact our business. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following describes major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. Any of these factors could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results, which could cause the trading prices of our equity securities to decline. The risks described below are not the only risks we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, could also negatively affect us. Summary of Risk Factors The following is a summary of the principal risks that could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial conditions, or operating results. For a more complete discussion of the material risks facing our business, please see below: Global Risks New and ongoing challenges relating to current supply chain constraints and impacts from inflation, including for satellite ground station and troposcatter components, could adversely impact our revenue, gross margins and financial results. If global economic business and political conditions deteriorate as compared to the current environment it could have a material adverse impact on our business outlook and our business, operating results and financial condition. We have significant operations in locations which could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a terrorist attack and government responses thereto or significant disruptions (including natural disasters) to our business. Ongoing instability and conflicts in global markets, including in the Ukraine and Eastern Europe, Israel, Lebanon, the Gaza Strip and the Middle East and Asia, and the attending possibility of economic sanctions, have created and may continue to create economic and political disruption that could adversely impact our revenue, gross margins and financial results. Strategic Transformation Risks We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our operational initiatives, including the strategic alternatives for our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment and further portfolio-shaping opportunities, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. Our transformation strategy may require a substantial portion of the time and attention of our management team, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and we may face increased levels of employee attrition. Business Risks Our current cash and liquidity projections raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our business outlook is difficult to forecast and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and are likely to be volatile. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation or modification and such cancellations or modifications could result in a decline in sales and increased provisions for excess and obsolete inventory. Our efforts to invoice and collect unbilled receivables may be unsuccessful. 20 Contract cost growth on our firm fixed-price contracts exposes us to reduced profitability and the potential loss of future business and other risks. Our business is highly dependent on the budgetary decisions of our government customers. Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique business, commercial and government audit risks. Our dependence on sales to international customers exposes us to unique business, commercial and export compliance audit risks. A change in our relationship with our large wireless carrier customers could have a material adverse effect. A change by wireless carrier partners in the pricing and other terms by which they offer our products to their end-customers could have a material adverse affect. Disputes with our subcontractors or key suppliers or their inability to deliver on a timely basis, could cause delays in our shipments. Our estimates regarding future warranty obligations may change based on a variety of factors, impacting future cost of revenue. Strategic Growth Risks We face a number of risks relating to the expected long-term growth of our business. Loss of our executive officers or other key personnel or other changes to our management team could disrupt our operations and growth plans or harm our business. We must service the debt and maintain compliance with various covenants under a credit facility that imposes restrictions on our business. Divestitures of portions of our business in the course of pursuing strategic alternatives and revisiting our portfolio could prove difficult to carve out, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or adversely affect operating results or the market price of our common stock. Our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets have been impaired and may be further impaired as a result of future business conditions, a deterioration of the global economy or if we change our reporting unit structure as we pursue strategic alternatives. Cybersecurity Risks We could be negatively impacted by a system failure, breach, attack or intrusion of our IT networks or those we operate for certain customers, or third-party data center facilities, servers and related systems. The measures we have implemented to secure information we collect and store or enable access to may be breached. Legal, Regulatory and Litigation Risks Changes in U.S. federal, state and local and foreign tax law could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our U.S. federal, state and local and foreign tax returns are subject to audit and a resulting tax assessment or settlement could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to environmental liabilities. The success of our business is dependent on compliance with FCC rules and regulations and similar foreign, state and local laws and regulations. Regulation of the mobile communications industry and VoIP is evolving, and unfavorable changes or our failure to comply with existing and potential new legislation or regulations could harm our business and operating results. 21 Ongoing compliance with the provisions of securities laws, related regulations and financial reporting standards could unexpectedly materially increase our costs and compliance related expenses. Indemnification provisions in our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We are, from time to time, and could become a party to additional litigation or subject to claims. Additionally, we may become subject to government investigations, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Protection of our intellectual property is limited and pursuing infringers of our patents and other intellectual property rights can be costly. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights and we could be prevented from selling our products, or suffer significant litigation expense, even if these claims have no merit. Competitive Risks All of our business activities are subject to rapid technological change, new entrants, the introduction of other distribution models and long development and testing periods each of which may harm our competitive position. Our business is highly competitive, we are reliant upon the success of our partners, and some of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do, which could result in a loss of customers, market share and/or market acceptance. We rely upon various third-party companies and their technology to provide services to our customers. Because our software may contain defects or errors, and our hardware products may incorporate defective components, our sales could decrease if these defects or errors adversely affect our reputation or delay shipments of our products. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile. Future issuances of our shares of common stock could dilute a stockholder's ownership interest in Comtech and reduce the market price of our shares of common stock. Actions of activist stockholders could impact the pursuit of our business strategies and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and/or share price. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of Comtech. Global Risks New and ongoing challenges relating to current supply chain constraints and impacts from inflation, including for satellite ground station and troposcatter components, could adversely impact our revenue, gross margins and financial results. The global supply chain for certain raw materials and components, including those used in our satellite ground station and troposcatter equipment, has experienced significant strain in recent periods. The constrained supply environment has adversely affected, and could further affect, availability and lead times of raw materials and components, thereby impeding our ability to meet customer demand in circumstances where we cannot timely secure supply of components that meet our quality standards. Even when raw materials and components are available, they often come with higher prices reflecting an imbalance between supply and demand, as well as inflationary pressures affecting global markets. The effects of inflation and labor challenges have caused, and we expect will continue to cause further delays in the supply chain. Despite our attempts to mitigate the impact on our business, constrained supply chain conditions have and are expected to continue to adversely impact our costs of goods sold and may impact the timing and amount of revenue we realize. During fiscal 2024, we experienced disruptions in our supply chain relating to later-than-expected delivery of certain key components from several suppliers that adversely impacted our revenue in fiscal 2024. In addition, the ongoing supply chain issues have affected the quality of the components we receive. Certain parts received in fiscal 2024 did not meet our quality specifications and we were unable to use them. 22 We obtain certain components and subsystems from a single source or a limited number of sources. Some of our single source suppliers, particularly those that provide satellite ground station and troposcatter components, have reported to us that they are having disruptions in their respective supply chains. These single source components, which include items such as RF filters and custom fiber connectors are in limited supply with very long lead times. In some cases, we have now depleted our stock inventory and we are on waiting lists to obtain additional components. In order to ship certain items during fiscal 2024, we must obtain additional components to produce certain finished goods. We continue to seek new suppliers and inventory elsewhere. In light of current challenges in the supply chain, we may not be able to qualify alternate suppliers for our components. Heading into our fiscal 2025, we have a significant portion of our targeted revenues in our backlog. However, if shipments from our backlog are delayed or we are unable to obtain expected orders or components, our business outlook will prove to be inaccurate. These aforementioned supply chain constraints, and their related challenges could result in future shortages, increased material costs or use of cash, engineering design changes, and delays in new product introductions, each of which could adversely impact our revenue, gross margins and financial results. There can be no assurance that the impacts of all the aforementioned conditions will not continue, or worsen, in the future. If global economic business and political conditions deteriorate as compared to the current environment it could have a material adverse impact on our business outlook and our business, operating results and financial condition. Many of the end-markets for our products and services may be significantly impacted for other issues that result in adverse global economic conditions. For example, many of our international end-customers are in emerging and developing countries that are subject to sweeping economic and political changes. Many governments around the world are under pressure to reduce their spending. From time to time, global oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and have significantly impaired the ability of certain of our government customers in the oil and gas producing regions of the world to invest in telecommunications products and infrastructure. Additionally, from time to time, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar against many international currencies has negatively impacted the purchasing power for many of our international end-customers because most of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. We generate significant sales from many emerging and developing countries and any such reduced purchasing power of our customers could adversely impact our sales and backlog. If credit in financial markets outside of the U.S. remains difficult to obtain, our international customers and suppliers may find it difficult to obtain financing, which could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and increased transaction costs (e.g., insurance, performance bonds). Volatility of financing conditions may cause our customers to be reluctant to spend funds required to purchase our solutions and could cause their projects to be postponed or canceled. In addition, if an adverse economic environment and lack of financing results in insolvencies for our customers, it would adversely impact the recoverability of our accounts receivable and/or inventories which would, in turn, adversely impact our results of operations. We believe that the current global economic business environment is unstable and sudden negative changes could result in the immediate suppression of end-market demand for many of our products such as satellite ground station technologies and other short lead-time products. The timing, impact, severity and duration of these conditions are difficult to predict. If U.S. or global economic conditions deteriorate, or political conditions become unstable, or additional economic sanctions are imposed on some of our end-customers, it could adversely impact our business in a number of ways. In the past, our businesses have been negatively affected by uncertain economic environments in the overall market and, more specifically, in the telecommunications sector. Our customers have reduced their budgets for spending on telecommunications equipment and systems and in some cases postponed or reduced the purchase of our products and systems. In the future, our customers may again reduce their spending on telecommunications equipment and systems which would negatively impact our business. If this occurs, it would adversely affect our outlook, net sales, profitability and the recoverability of our assets, including intangible assets such as goodwill. We have significant operations in Arizona, Florida, California, Washington State, Maryland and other locations which could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a terrorist attack and government responses thereto or significant disruptions (including natural disasters) to our business. Terrorist attacks, the U.S. and other governments' responses thereto, and threats of war could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, our 911 hosted location-based services and satellite teleport services operations depend on our ability to maintain our computer equipment and systems in effective working order, and to protect our systems against damage from fire, natural disaster, terrorist attack, power loss, telecommunications failure, sabotage, unauthorized access to our system or similar events. 23 Any unanticipated interruption or delay in our operations or breach of security could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for any losses that may occur in the event of a terrorist attack, threat, system failure or a breach of security. Insurance may not be available to us at all or, if available, may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. We currently, and intend to continue to, operate a high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Arizona. A terrorist attack or similar future event may disrupt our operations or those of our customers or suppliers and may affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. If a natural disaster or other business interruption occurred with respect to our high-volume technology manufacturing center, we do not have immediate access to other manufacturing facilities and, as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The loss of our facility in Arizona would have a negative impact on our production capability and we would incur unexpected costs and lost revenue associated with our inability to meet our contractual commitments. We design and manufacture our over-the-horizon microwave equipment and systems in Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred in the past, and amplifiers in Santa Clara, California, an area close to major earthquake fault lines. Additionally, certain of our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment activities are conducted in Washington State near a fault line. We maintain operations in Maryland near a U.S. Navy facility which may be more prone to a terrorist attack. Our operations in these and other locations (such as in our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Arizona), could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, tornadoes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications failures, and other natural and man-made disasters or disruptions. We cannot be sure that our systems will operate appropriately if we experience hardware or software failure, intentional disruptions of service by third parties, an act of God or an act of war. A failure in our systems could cause delays in transmitting data, and as a result we may lose customers or face litigation that could involve material costs and distract management from operating our business. In the event of any such disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ongoing instability and conflicts in global markets, including in the Ukraine and Eastern Europe, Israel, Lebanon, the Gaza Strip and the Middle East and Asia, and the attending possibility of economic sanctions, have created and may continue to create economic and political disruption that could adversely impact our revenue, gross margins and financial results. The U.S. government and other nations have imposed significant restrictions on most companies ability to do business in Russia. It is not possible to predict the broader or longer-term consequences of this conflict, which could include further sanctions, embargoes, regional instability, geopolitical shifts, adverse effects on macroeconomic conditions, security conditions, currency exchange rates and financial markets. Such geo-political instability and uncertainty could have a negative impact on our ability to sell to, ship products to, collect payments from, and support customers in certain regions based on trade restrictions, embargoes, export control law restrictions, and logistics restrictions including closures of air space, and could increase the costs, risks and adverse impacts from these new challenges. We may also be the subject of increased cyber-attacks as a result of the conflict. The military conflict between Russia and Ukraine has impacted our sales pipeline and continues to have repercussions for our business. Although sales into Russia represented approximately 1% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2024 and 2023, consolidated net sales into Russia in fiscal 2025 and beyond had been expected to grow. As a result of the economic sanctions against Russia, however, we have stopped accepting new orders in Russia and initiated a wind down of operations in fiscal 2024. As a result of this conflict, from time to time over the past two years, we believe that certain customers (including the U.S. government, Ukraine and neighboring countries) paused procurement and deployment of satellite and troposcatter communication systems, and instead began purchasing war-fighting equipment. 24 Accordingly, it has become difficult to predict the timing or dollar amount of our contract awards in the region. For example, we anticipated being awarded several opportunities to provide wireless communication systems (including troposcatter systems) to Ukraine and neighboring countries for a variety of both defense and communications uses. However, while we continue to track such opportunities and believe that they will ultimately be awarded to us, such opportunities continue to be delayed. Additionally, funding for opportunities with other customers that we expected to book and ship has also been shifted to other programs and/or temporarily delayed as a result of changes in defense spending priorities. Prior to this conflict, we maintained a small group of employees who supported certain UHP-branded satellite communications products. In fiscal 2024, we continued to expand our operations and shift certain commercial software development and support activities to Canada. However, as we are currently in an environment where software engineering talent is already in high demand and commands a premium, we expect to incur additional annual expenses in connection with this personnel shift for our UHP products. We may not be able to timely ramp up our operations in Canada or elsewhere on a sufficient scale to support anticipated growth of our UHP products, which could adversely impact future revenues, gross margins and operations. The U.S. Government's budget deficit, as well as a breach of the debt ceiling, could have an adverse impact on our operations. Our sales to government customers are highly dependent on the U.S. defense budget, which in turn is driven by an annual appropriation by Congress. These appropriations rarely align with the performance period of our contractsfor instance, most of our government contracts are only partially funded at inception. DoD budgets are driven by factors that are outside our control (such as economic conditions, administration policy shifts within the Executive branch and geopolitical events). Any one or combination of these factors may adversely impact our operations, resulting in a decline of sales and operating income. Strategic Transformation Risks We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our operational initiatives, including the strategic alternatives for our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment and further portfolio-shaping opportunities, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. On October 17, 2024, we announced that we are executing a strategy to transform Comtech into a pure-play satellite and space communications company. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in a transaction on terms acceptable to us or other strategic changes or outcomes. Even if a transaction or series of transactions were completed, there can be no assurance as to the timing of completing these activities. Moreover, we may not realize any or all of the anticipated benefits from our pursuit of strategic alternatives for our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment, or the anticipated benefits from further portfolio-shaping opportunities, and related transactions could in fact adversely affect our business. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our transformation strategy and further portfolio-shaping opportunities will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to continue to focus on satellite and space communications and to achieve more predictable growth in the absence of any divested businesses, including the Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment. Some of the anticipated benefits may not occur for a significant period of time. In addition, we may retain certain liabilities or obligations related to our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment or other businesses that may arise under contract or law, or may have difficulties enforcing our rights, contractual or otherwise, against the buyer. The focus on becoming a pure-play satellite and space communications company and the related transactions may not enhance long-term stockholder value as anticipated. Further, our strategic transformation could result in near term restructuring charges and a material impairment of our goodwill and/or intangible assets, among other things. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, including restructuring charges, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of managements time and energy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the process of such strategic transformations, including divesting assets, carries an inherent risk of market fluctuations and economic uncertainties that could undermine the value we expect to realize. 25 Our transformation strategy may require a substantial portion of the time and attention of our management team, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and we may face increased levels of employee attrition. Our management team has spent, and continues to spend, a significant amount of time and effort focusing on our transformation strategy. This diversion of attention may have an adverse effect on the conduct of our business, and, as a result, on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the time it takes to complete our transformation strategy is protracted. During the pendency of the transformation strategy, our employees may face considerable distraction and uncertainty and we may experience increased levels of employee attrition. A loss of key personnel or material erosion of employee morale could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to meet customer expectations, thereby adversely affecting our business and results of operations. The failure to retain or attract members of our management team and other key personnel could impair our ability to execute our strategy and implement operational initiatives, thereby having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Likewise, we could experience losses of customers who may be concerned about our ongoing long-term viability. Business Risks Our current cash and liquidity projections raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Pursuant to the requirements of ASC Topic 205-40, "Disclosure of Uncertainties About an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern," we are required to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This evaluation does not take into consideration the potential mitigating effect of our plans that have not been fully implemented or are not within our control as of the date the audited Consolidated Financial Statements are issued. When substantial doubt exists, we are required to evaluate whether the mitigating effect of our plans sufficiently alleviates substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The mitigating effect of our plans, however, is only considered if both (i) it is probable that the plans will be effectively implemented within one year after the date that the Consolidated Financial Statements are issued, and (ii) it is probable that the plans, when implemented, will mitigate the relevant conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the Consolidated Financial Statements are issued. As of the date these financial statements were issued (the "issuance date"), we evaluated whether the following adverse conditions, when considered in the aggregate, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern over the next twelve months beyond the issuance date. Over the past three fiscal years, we incurred operating losses of $79.9 million, $14.7 million and $33.8 million in fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. In addition, over the past three fiscal years, net cash used in operating activities was $54.5 million and $4.4 million in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, and net cash provided by operating activities was $2.0 million in fiscal 2022. Our ability to meet future anticipated liquidity needs over the next year beyond the issuance date will largely depend on our ability to generate positive cash inflows from operations, maximize our borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility, as discussed further below, and or secure other sources of outside capital. While we believe we will be able to generate sufficient positive cash inflows, maximize our borrowing capacity and secure outside capital, there can be no assurance our plans will be successfully implemented and, as such, we may be unable to continue as a going concern over the next year beyond the issuance date. As discussed further in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (8) - Credit Facility" included in "Part II -