Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016." Our Internet website is www.comtechtel.com and we make available on our website: our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including annual reports, quarterly reports, current reports and any amendments to those filings. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference the information contained therein into this Form 10-K. We also use our website to disseminate other material information to our investors (on the Home Page and in the Investor Relations section). Among other things, we post on our website our press releases and information about our public conference calls (including the scheduled dates, times and the methods by which investors and others can listen to those calls), and we make available for replay webcasts of those calls and other presentations. We also use social media channels to communicate with customers and the public about our Company, our products, services and other issues, and we use social media and the Internet to communicate with investors, including information about our shareholder meetings. Information and updates about our Annual Meetings will continue to be posted on our website at www.comtechtel.com in the "Investor Relations" section. Any materials filed with the SEC may be read and copied by the public at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are incorporated in the state of Delaware and were founded in 1967. 1 Index Business Conditions and Industry Background We participate in the advanced global commercial and government communications market which is characterized by rapid technological advances and constant change. We manufacture, design, market and sell products and/or services that are generally customized to meet our customers' specific requirements. For the past several years, the end-markets for our products and services have been significantly impacted by adverse global economic conditions. For example, many of our international end-customers are located in emerging and developing countries that are undergoing sweeping economic and political changes. Many governments around the world have also cut their spending budgets and are under pressure to further reduce them. In fiscal 2015, global oil prices and natural gas prices have plunged, significantly impairing the ability of our customers in the oil and gas producing regions of the world to invest in telecommunications products and infrastructure. Additionally, the U.S. dollar, the currency in which virtually all of our sales are denominated, has strengthened against many international currencies resulting in lower purchasing power for many of our international end-customers. We believe that our customers have been materially impacted by the aforementioned adverse global economic conditions and that the cumulative effect of these conditions has been to suppress end-market demand for many of our products. Although the impact, severity and duration of these conditions are impossible to predict with precision, we believe the current economic environment has resulted in, and may continue to result in, changes to our commercial and government customers' historical spending priorities and downward spending pressure on government budgets throughout the world. Notwithstanding adverse global economic conditions, we believe that the global advanced communications market will grow in the long-term due to many factors, including the following: Continued Reliance on Communications Systems . Businesses and governments around the world have become and will continue to be increasingly reliant upon advanced communications systems to communicate with their customers, suppliers, and personnel. In particular, there has been and we believe there will continue to be a significant increase in global demand for products and services that are utilized for wireless and cellular-based communications, broadcasting, Internet Protocol ("IP")-based communications (including voice, broadband video and data), long distance telephony and highly secure defense applications. New Applications and New Technologies Are Being Introduced and Marketed. New applications and technologies for our products and services are currently being introduced and marketed. For example, we believe that Internet connectivity will transform the aviation and shipboard industry and demand for products and services that enable the ability to provide in-flight and shipboard connectivity (including providing in-flight and shipboard entertainment) will grow. Additionally, we believe the ongoing shift from standard broadcasting to high definition television ("HDTV") and Ultra High Definition ("Ultra HD" which is also referred to as "4K") for cable and over-the-air broadcast will result in increased need for our high power amplifiers and more efficient satellite ground station equipment. At the same time, current and potential customers are planning additional launches of new High Throughput Satellites ("HTS") that will be used to support additional applications such as broadband Internet in emerging and developing countries. These new satellites have multiple spot beams and achieve significantly greater capacity for broadcast applications and high-speed Internet service and require, in many cases, upgrade to existing satellite equipment. The Shift to Information-Based, Network-Centric Warfare. Militaries around the world, including the U.S. military, have become increasingly reliant on information and communications technology to provide critical advantages in battlefield, support and logistics operations. Situational awareness, defined as knowledge of the location and strength of friendly and unfriendly forces during battle, can increase the likelihood of success during a conflict. As evidenced by the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, stretched battle and supply lines have used satellite-based (including mobile satellite-based) and over-the-horizon microwave communications solutions to span distances that normal radio communications, such as terrestrial-based systems, are unable to cover. The Need for Emerging and Developing Countries to Upgrade Their Commercial and Defense Communications Systems. We believe many emerging and developing countries will be required to further develop and upgrade their commercial and defense communications systems. Many of these countries lack the financial resources to install extensive land-based networks, particularly where they have large geographic areas or unfriendly terrain that make the installation of land-based networks more costly. We believe satellite-based and over-the-horizon microwave technologies often provide affordable and effective solutions to meet the requirements for communications services in these countries. 2 Index Although the health of the global economy and political stability directly impact the speed at which our industry advances and changes, we expect that we will be able to participate in our industrys expected long-term growth by focusing research and development resources to produce secure, scalable and reliable technologies to meet these evolving market needs. Corporate Strategies We manage our business with the following principal corporate business strategies: Seek leadership positions in markets where we can provide differentiated products and services; Identify and participate in emerging technologies that enhance or expand our product portfolio; Maximize responsiveness to our customers, including offering more integrated systems and solutions; Strengthen our diversified and balanced customer base; and Pursue acquisitions of businesses and technologies. Competitive Strengths The successful execution of our principal corporate strategies is based on our competitive strengths, which are briefly described below: Leadership Positions In our telecommunications transmission segment, we believe we are the leading provider of single channel per carrier ("SCPC") satellite earth station modems and over-the-horizon microwave (or troposcatter) products and systems. Many of our key satellite earth station products incorporate Turbo Product Code ("TPC") forward error correction technology and our licensed DoubleTalk Carrier-in-Carrier bandwidth compression technology which enable our customers to optimize their satellite networks by either reducing their satellite transponder lease costs or increasing data throughput. Our over-the-horizon microwave system product line has evolved and now includes smaller, lighter, higher capacity transportable network systems. We believe we offer the only available adaptive troposcatter modem operating at 50 megabits per second ("Mbps"). In our RF microwave amplifiers segment, we believe we are a leader in the satellite earth station traveling wave tube amplifier ("TWTA") market and one of the largest independent suppliers of broadband, high-power, high-performance RF microwave amplifiers. We recently received a major production award for the in-flight connectivity market and believe we are the leader in this growing market. In our mobile data communications segment, we remain a key legacy supplier to the U.S. Armys satellite-based, tracking and communications system known as Blue Force Tracking-1 ("BFT-1"). Innovative Leader with Emphasis on Research and Development We have established a leading technology position in our fields through internal and customer-funded research and development activities. We believe we were the first company to begin full-scale deployment of TPC forward error correction technology and licensed DoubleTalk Carrier-in-Carrier bandwidth compression technology in digital satellite earth station modems. In fiscal 2015, we announced our new Heights networking platform that combines our most efficient waveforms, compression engines and the ability to provide dynamic bandwidth and power management to meet the demands of customers operating on traditional fixed satellite service systems ("FSS") while providing advantages for those with HTS systems in their future. Our Heights platform, a successor to our Advanced VSAT series of products, is ideally suited for cellular backhaul, universal service obligation networks and other applications that require high performance in a hub-spoke environment. As a result of our research and development capabilities, we were selected by the U.S. Navy over a legacy supplier to develop the Advanced Time Division Multiple Access ("TDMA") Interface Processor ("ATIP"). Our field-proven over-the-horizon microwave systems utilize a proprietary 50 Mbps adaptive digital modem. In our RF microwave amplifiers segment, we differentiate our product offerings by our ability to develop the most efficient size, weight and power profile. We are incorporating Gallium Nitride technology into our products which allows us to offer customers more powerful and higher efficiency RF microwave amplifiers. In fiscal 2015, we announced the introduction of a new line of SuperPower TM TWTAs that can double available TWTA output enabling direct replacement of klystron power amplifiers in satellite communications uplinks. In addition, our traveling wave tube amplifiers have built-in block up converters ("BUCs") that significantly reduce operating costs for domestic and international broadcasters. 3 Index Diverse Customer Base with Long-Standing Relationships We have established long-standing relationships with leading domestic and international system and network suppliers in the satellite, defense, broadcast and aerospace industries, as well as with the U.S. government and foreign governments. Our products are in service around the globe and we continue to expand our geographic distribution. For instance, our satellite earth station products and our high-power amplifiers are used by hundreds of customers including mobile cellular network providers and governments around the world. We believe that our customers recognize our ability to develop new technologies and to meet stringent program requirements. We have ongoing relationships with the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, U.S. Army and other U.S. government agencies. Our high-power amplifiers, for example, are being used in a major network expansion for the U.S. Air Force, and we continue to develop and manufacture the ATIP for the U.S. Navy's Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command. Core Manufacturing Expertise That Can Support All Three Business Segments Our high-volume technology manufacturing center located in Tempe, Arizona is part of our telecommunications transmission segment. This center utilizes state-of-the-art design and production techniques, including analog, digital and RF microwave production, hardware assembly and full-service engineering. Both our RF microwave amplifiers and mobile data communications segments have utilized this manufacturing center to contract for certain high-volume production. Although contract manufacturing production (including use by our RF microwave amplifiers and mobile data communications segments) is currently modest, we are actively seeking appropriate opportunities to expand this part of our business. Successful and Disciplined Acquisition Track Record We have demonstrated that we can successfully integrate acquired businesses, achieve increased efficiencies and capitalize on market and technological synergies. We believe that our disciplined approach in identifying, integrating and capitalizing on acquisitions provides us with a proven platform for additional growth. Our last major acquisition was the purchase of Radyne Corporation (Radyne) which was completed in fiscal 2009. The Radyne acquisition was the largest acquisition in our history and we achieved all of the strategic goals and operating efficiency targets that we originally established when we announced the acquisition. For the past several years, although we evaluated a number of acquisition opportunities, we focused most of our business development efforts on the repositioning of our business. In fiscal 2015, we completed a review of strategic alternatives, concluding that the interests of the Company and its shareholders will be best served by the Company remaining independent and we are now pursuing a focused acquisition plan with the goal of expanding our global footprint and further diversifying our product lines. Our Three Business Segments We conduct our business through three complementary business segments: telecommunications transmission, RF microwave amplifiers and mobile data communications. Our corporate senior management team supports the business segments by, among other things, actively seeking to exploit potential synergies that exist between the segments, including in areas such as manufacturing, technology, sales, marketing and customer support. Financial information about our business segments, including net sales, operating income and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the United States, is provided in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note (11) Segment Information included in Part II