ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, information relating to our future performance and financial condition, plans and objectives of our management and our assumptions regarding such future performance, financial condition, and plans and objectives that involve certain significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors not under our control which may cause our actual results, future performance and financial condition, and achievement of our plans and objectives to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: the possibility that the expected synergies from the acquisition of TeleCommunication Systems, Inc. ("TCS") will not be fully realized, or will not be realized within the anticipated time period; the risk that Comtechs and TCSs businesses will not be integrated successfully; the possibility of disruption from the merger, making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships or retain key personnel; the nature and timing of receipt of, and our performance on, new or existing orders that can cause significant fluctuations in net sales and operating results; the timing and funding of government contracts; adjustments to gross profits on long-term contracts; risks associated with international sales; rapid technological change; evolving industry standards; new product announcements and enhancements; changing customer demands; changes in prevailing economic and political conditions; changes in the price of oil in global markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with our legal proceedings, customer claims for indemnification, and other similar matters; risks associated with our obligations under our revolving credit facility and acquisition debt; risks associated with our large contracts; and other factors described in this and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). OVERVIEW We design, develop, produce and market innovative products, systems and services for advanced communications solutions. We sell our products to a diverse customer base in the global commercial and government communications markets. We believe we are a leader in most of the market segments that we serve. In connection with the TCS acquisition, which closed on February 23, 2016 (the first month of our third quarter of fiscal 2016), we have announced that we will manage our combined business in two operating segments: commercial solutions and government solutions. The TCS acquisition is further discussed in the below section, entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016. As of January 31, 2016, we operated our business in three segments: (i) telecommunications transmission, (ii) RF microwave amplifiers and (iii) mobile data communications. As such, the below sections entitled Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended January 31, 2016 and January 31, 2015 and Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended January 31, 2016 and January 31, 2015 , have been presented in the same manner as we operated our business. Our telecommunications transmission segment provides sophisticated equipment and systems that are used to enhance satellite transmission efficiency and that enable wireless communications in environments where terrestrial communications are unavailable, inefficient or too expensive. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment designs, develops, manufactures and markets traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA's") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPA's"), including high-power, narrow and broadband RF microwave amplifier products. Our mobile data communications segment's products and services substantially relate to our support of the U.S. Army's Blue Force Tracking (BFT-1) program, which is currently in a sustainment mode. Quarterly and period-to-period sales and operating results may be significantly affected by either short-term or long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, our gross profit is affected by a variety of factors, including the mix of products, systems and services sold, production efficiencies, estimates of warranty expense, price competition and general economic conditions. Our gross profit may also be affected by the impact of any cumulative adjustments to contracts that are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method. 26 Index Our contracts with the U.S. government can be terminated for convenience by the U.S. government at any time and orders are subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. Some of these contracts are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts and, as such, the U.S. government is not obligated to purchase any equipment or services under these contracts. We have, in the past, experienced and we continue to expect significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period. As such, comparisons between periods and our current results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. As further discussed below, under Critical Accounting Policies, revenue from the sale of our products is generally recognized when the earnings process is complete, upon shipment or customer acceptance. Revenue from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyers specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts are generally recognized in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts (ASC 605-35). Revenue from contracts that contain multiple elements that are not accounted for under FASB ASC 605-35 is generally accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC 605-25, Revenue Recognition - Multiple Element Arrangements, which, among other things, requires revenue associated with multiple element arrangements to be allocated to each element based on the relative selling price method. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each. Revenue Recognition on Long-Term Contracts. Revenues and related costs from long-term contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyers specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts are recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts (ASC 605-35). We primarily apply the percentage-of-completion accounting method and generally recognize revenue based on the relationship of total costs incurred to total projected costs, or, alternatively, based on output measures, such as units delivered or produced. Profits expected to be realized on such contracts are based on total estimated sales for the contract compared to total estimated costs, including warranty costs, at completion of the contract. Direct costs which include materials, labor and overhead are charged to work-in-progress (including our contracts-in-progress) inventory or cost of sales. Indirect costs relating to long-term contracts, which include expenses such as general and administrative, are charged to expense as incurred and are not included in our work-in-process (including our contracts-in-progress) inventory or cost of sales. Total estimates are reviewed and revised periodically throughout the lives of the contracts, and adjustments to profits resulting from such revisions are made cumulative to the date of the change. Estimated losses on long-term contracts are recorded in the period in which the losses become evident. Long-term U.S. government cost-reimbursable type contracts are also specifically covered by FASB ASC 605-35. We have been engaged in the production and delivery of goods and services on a continual basis under contractual arrangements for many years. Historically, we have demonstrated an ability to accurately estimate total revenues and total expenses relating to our long-term contracts. However, there exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating revenues, expenses and progress toward completion, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. If we do not accurately estimate the total sales, related costs and progress towards completion on such contracts, the estimated gross margins may be significantly impacted or losses may need to be recognized in future periods. Any such resulting changes in margins or contract losses could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, most government contracts have termination for convenience clauses that provide the customer with the right to terminate the contract at any time. Such terminations could impact the assumptions regarding total contract revenues and expenses utilized in recognizing profit under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Changes to these assumptions could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have not experienced material terminations of our long-term contracts. We also address customer acceptance provisions in assessing our ability to perform our contractual obligations under long-term contracts. Our inability to perform on our long-term contracts could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have been able to perform on our long-term contracts. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation . As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (11) Stock-Based Compensation, we issue stock-based awards to certain of our employees and our Board of Directors and we recognize related stock-based compensation for both equity and liability-classified stock-based awards in our condensed consolidated financial statements. 27 Index We have used and expect to continue to use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to compute the estimated fair value of stock options. The Black-Scholes option pricing model includes assumptions regarding dividend yield, expected volatility, expected option term and risk-free interest rates. The expected dividend yield is the expected annual dividend as a percentage of the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. We estimate expected volatility by considering the historical volatility of our stock and the implied volatility of publicly-traded call options on our stock. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for an instrument which closely approximates the expected term. The expected term is the number of years we estimate that awards will be outstanding prior to exercise and is determined by employee groups with sufficiently distinct behavior patterns. The assumptions used in computing the fair value of stock-based awards reflect our best estimates, but involve uncertainties relating to market and other conditions, many of which are outside of our control. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by the recipients of stock-based awards. As a result, if other assumptions or estimates had been used, stock-based compensation expense that was recorded could have been materially different. Furthermore, if different assumptions are used in future periods, stock-based compensation expense could be materially impacted in the future. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . As of January 31, 2016 , goodwill recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $137.4 million (of which $107.8 million relates to our telecommunications transmission segment and $29.6 million relates to our RF microwave amplifiers segment). Additionally, as of January 31, 2016 , intangibles recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $17.4 million (of which $9.3 million relates to our telecommunications transmission segment and $8.1 million relates to our RF microwave amplifiers segment). Our mobile data communications segment has no goodwill or intangible assets. Each of our three operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions in determining their estimated fair values. In accordance with FASB ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods. If we fail Step One (discussed below), we would do a Step Two test which compares the carrying value of the reporting unit to the fair value of all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangibles) as if the reporting unit was acquired in a business combination. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of its goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. On August 1, 2015 (the first day of our fiscal 2016 ), we performed a quantitative assessment (commonly referred to as a Step One test) using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value. Based on our quantitative evaluation performed on August 1, 2015, we determined that our telecommunications transmission and RF microwave amplifiers reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 14.0% and 14.2% , respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired. As such, we did not perform a Step Two assessment. As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (18) - Subsequent Events, in anticipation of closing the TCS acquisition, we announced a new organizational structure in which our chief operating decision maker will manage the enterprise in two operating segments: commercial solutions and government solutions. In connection with this reporting change, we intend to perform a Before Reorganization and an After Reorganization interim goodwill impairment test during our three months ending April 30, 2016. Although these tests have not yet been finalized, we believe that no impairment of goodwill will result from our change to a new segment organizational structure. In any event, we are required to perform the next annual goodwill impairment analysis on August 1, 2016 (the start of our fiscal 2017). This test will include an evaluation of the substantial goodwill that is expected to result from the TCS acquisition. During the interim periods, if our expected financial results materially decline below our expectations or if other events and circumstances change which indicate the potential for impairment (e.g., a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock (considered on both absolute terms and relative to peers)), we may be required to record interim impairment charges if we perform and fail an interim test. Any impairment charges that we may record in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. 28 Index Provision for Warranty Obligations. We provide warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long-term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment. We record a liability for estimated warranty expense based on historical claims, product failure rates and other factors. Costs associated with some of our warranties that are provided under long-term contracts are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs. There exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating warranty expenses, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. As such, if we do not accurately estimate our warranty costs, any changes to our original estimates could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Accounting for Income Taxes. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Our provision for income taxes is based on domestic (including federal and state) and international statutory income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions where we operate, permanent differences between financial reporting and tax reporting and available credits and incentives. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. The U.S. federal government is our most significant income tax jurisdiction. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and tax positions. We may be challenged upon review by the applicable taxing authority and positions taken by us may not be sustained. We recognize all or a portion of the benefit of income tax positions only when we have made a determination that it is more-likely-than-not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, based upon the technical merits of the position and other factors. For tax positions that are determined as more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination, the tax benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The development of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and reserves for income tax positions requires consideration of timing and judgments about future taxable income, tax issues and potential outcomes, and are subjective critical estimates. In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of our adoption of FASB ASU No. 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes, for periods presented after July 31, 2015, all of our deferred income taxes are now classified as non-current. In December 2015, we received notification from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") of its intent to audit our federal income tax return for fiscal 2014. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2012 and 2013 are also subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2011 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends. Other factors may also influence our provision, including decisions to exit a product line, technological change and new product development. These factors could result in a change in the amount of excess and obsolete inventory on hand. Additionally, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory was overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charge could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We perform credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness, as determined by our review of our customers current credit information. Generally, we will require cash in advance or payment secured by irrevocable letters of credit before an order is accepted from an international customer that we do not do business with regularly. In addition, we seek to obtain insurance for certain domestic and international customers. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. We have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio. Except for an increase in bad debt expense in fiscal 2015 related to one international customer, our overall credit losses have historically been within our expectations of the allowances established. In light of the current global economic conditions, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have in the past. Measurement of credit losses requires consideration of historical loss experience, including the need to adjust for current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates and the financial health of specific customers. Changes to the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. 29 Index Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016 During the three months ended January 31, 2016, we continued to operate our legacy business (which excludes the TCS acquisition) in a challenging environment. In particular, the end markets for certain of our products, primarily our satellite earth station product line, continue to be significantly impacted. Global oil and natural gas prices have further declined since we reported our first quarter fiscal 2016 results. As such, our customers in energy dependent countries including Russia and Brazil, among others, continue to be adversely impacted. Additionally, many of our international customers (including those in emerging markets and developing countries) have experienced lower purchasing power for our products given the relative strength of the U.S. dollar (the currency in which virtually all of our sales are denominated). In response to all of the aforementioned, many of our international customers have cut their spending budgets for our products or have delayed purchases. As such, our legacy business is not expected to achieve the same level of annual revenues or operating income in fiscal 2016 that it achieved in fiscal 2015. Nevertheless, as a result of the TCS acquisition, our consolidated Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016 is expected to improve as compared to fiscal 2015. We also believe that our fiscal 2017 financial results will be significantly higher than the amounts we anticipate to achieve in fiscal 2016. As discussed in detail in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (18) - Subsequent Events, pursuant to the terms of a merger agreement, we completed the acquisition of TCS on February 23, 2016. TCS is a leading provider of commercial solutions (such as public safety systems and enterprise application technologies), and government solutions (such as command and control (also known as Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR))) applications. The acquisition was a significant step in our strategy of entering complementary markets and expanding our domestic and international commercial offerings. We believe that the acquisition of TCS provides the following strategic benefits which will have a positive impact to our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016: The creation of scale and more diversified earnings, reducing volatility associated with challenging international (including emerging markets) business conditions; Entry into new commercial markets, including the public safety market which has a growing need for next generation emergency 911 systems; An enhanced position with existing customers, including the U.S. government, for which Comtech will now be a prime contractor, including for sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems (troposcatter) products; and The ability to obtain meaningful cost synergies. In connection with the TCS acquisition, and beginning with our third quarter of fiscal 2016, we reorganized our business into two operating segments: commercial solutions and government solutions. Our commercial solutions segment serves commercial customers (including smaller governments such as state and local governments) which require advanced technologies to meet their needs. We believe this segment has leadership positions in the areas of satellite communications, public safety systems and enterprise application technologies. Our government solutions segment serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) which require mission critical technologies and systems. We believe this segment has leadership positions in the areas of C4ISR applications, troposcatter communications and RF power and switching technologies. Although the TCS business previously operated on a calendar year basis, as a result of the acquisition, TCS will conform to Comtechs fiscal year which ends on July 31st. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, based on unaudited financial results, TCS generated net sales of approximately $360.0 million , of which approximately 47.2% or $169.8 million was generated during the first half of its calendar year 2015 (which was the six-month period ended June 30, 2015). Our consolidated Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016 will benefit from incremental net sales and operating income contributions from TCS that will be generated from February 23, 2016 (the acquisition closing date) through July 31, 2016 (the end of our current fiscal year). Our third quarter of fiscal 2016 will reflect approximately two months of TCS operations while our fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 will reflect a full three months of TCS operations. The approximately five months of TCS net sales contributions to our fiscal 2016 is expected to be less than the $169.8 million of net sales that TCS generated in the first half of its calendar year 2015. At the same time, the results for the second half of our fiscal 2016, particularly the third quarter of our fiscal 2016, will reflect significant transaction and merger related expenses, duplicate spending, severance costs and certain inefficiencies as we combine our business operations. 30 Index Excluding transaction and merger related expenditures, on a cash basis, the acquisition is expected to be accretive. We are on track to deliver meaningful cost synergies, which are expected to approximate an annual run-rate of $8.0 million over the next several quarters, with $12.0 million of synergies in the second year after completing the acquisition. Synergies are expected to be achieved by reductions in duplicate public company costs, reduced spending on maintaining multiple information technology systems and obtaining increased operating efficiencies throughout the combined company. The total amount of transaction and merger related expenditures is expected to approximate $48.0 million , which includes significant amounts for: (i) change-in-control payments, (ii) severance, (iii) costs associated with establishing a new $400.0 million credit facility (the "New Credit Facility"), described below in "Liquidity and Capital Resources," and (iv) professional fees for financial and legal advisors for both Comtech and TCS. Given that the TCS transaction closed on February 23, 2016, it is not practicable, as of the date of this SEC filing, to perform and complete an analysis and assessment of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired as well as the accounting treatment related to expected transaction and merger related expenditures. Some of these expenditures are expected to be immediately expensed, some expensed during the first year following the closing of the acquisition and some capitalized in accordance with purchase accounting rules. In addition to the impact of transaction and merger related expenditures, our financial results in our second half of fiscal 2016 are expected to reflect a material increase in Comtechs annual amortization expense related to intangible assets as well as a material increase in annual interest expense associated with our New Credit Facility. The TCS acquisition has a preliminary aggregate purchase price for accounting purposes of approximately $340.4 million (also referred to as the "transaction equity value"). As of February 23, 2016, the date we closed the acquisition, based on unaudited financial information, TCS had $61.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and debt (including accrued interest) of approximately $144.1 million . As such, the transaction had an enterprise value of approximately $423.2 million . We expect to fully fund the acquisition (including $48.0 million of transaction and merger related expenditures) and to repay the large majority of TCS's debt by redeploying a significant amount of our combined cash and cash equivalents, with the remaining funds coming from our New Credit Facility. On the closing date, on a pro-forma combined basis and assuming all transaction costs and TCS's outstanding debt were paid or assumed, the combined companies had more than $50.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and outstanding debt of approximately $361.6 million . As we continue to evaluate the anticipated impact of the TCS acquisition on our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016, including with respect to finalizing required purchase accounting and fair value estimates of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, we anticipate being in a position to provide more specifics concerning our Fiscal 2016 Business Outlook in a future announcement during our third fiscal quarter. Additional information related to our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016 is included in the below sections entitled Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended January 31, 2016 and January 31, 2015 and Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended January 31, 2016 and January 31, 2015 . COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2016 AND JANUARY 31, 2015 Except to the extent expressly stated, the following discussion gives no effect to our acquisition of TCS which closed on February 23, 2016. Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $70.3 million and $81.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing a decrease of $11.5 million, or 14.1% . As further discussed below, the period-over-period decrease primarily reflects significantly lower net sales in our telecommunications transmission segment, partially offset by higher net sales in our RF microwave amplifiers and mobile data communications segments. Telecommunications Transmission Net sales in our telecommunications transmission segment were $38.6 million and $53.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, a significant decrease of $15.3 million, or 28.4% . This decrease reflects lower comparative net sales in both our satellite earth station and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines, as further discussed below. Both net sales and bookings for our satellite earth station products were lower during the three months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2015 as our international customers continue to face significant economic challenges. As end markets for our satellite earth station products have been and continue to be significantly impacted by adverse global business conditions, we are now expecting annual satellite earth station product sales to decrease in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015. The fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 is expected to be the peak quarter of sales for this product line in fiscal 2016. 31 Index Net sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems were significantly lower during the three months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2015 . Annual and quarterly sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems and products tend to fluctuate, based on the timing of, and our related performance on large customer contracts. In this regard, although we continued performance on our two large multi-year contracts to design and supply over-the-horizon microwave systems and equipment for a North African government, both of these contracts are nearing completion. Sales generated from these contracts during the three months ended January 31, 2016 were significantly lower than sales generated during the three months ended January 31, 2015 and these sales are not expected to increase during the remainder of our contract performance. Although lower sales from the two large contracts are expected to result in lower annual over-the-horizon microwave systems sales in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015, we are expecting strong bookings during the second half of fiscal 2016. We anticipate receiving and starting shipment of large new orders from one or more international customers who have expressed strong interest in our products. The fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 is expected to be the peak quarter of sales for this product line in fiscal 2016. In the aggregate, sales in our telecommunications transmission segment are expected to decline in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015. Bookings, sales and profitability in our telecommunications transmission segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including the book and ship nature of our satellite earth station products, the current volatile and adverse conditions in the global economy, and the timing of, and our related performance on, contracts from the U.S. government (including prime contractors to the U.S. government) and from both existing and new international customers. Our telecommunications transmission segment represented 54.8% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2016 , as compared to 65.9% for the three months ended January 31, 2015 . RF Microwave Amplifiers Net sales in our RF microwave amplifiers segment were $24.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 , as compared to $21.6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2015 , an increase of $3.3 million, or 15.3% . This increase reflects higher sales in both our traveling wave tube amplifier and solid-state high-power amplifier product lines. To date, adverse global business conditions that have impacted our satellite earth station product line have not significantly impacted our RF microwave amplifiers segment. While we have seen a delay in some orders, we continue to expect that fiscal 2016 will be another year of sales and bookings growth for this segment. Customer reaction to our new SuperPower TM traveling wave tube amplifiers has been extremely positive. We received our first order for this new product in fiscal 2015, received orders for this product in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2016 and we are expecting significant additional orders during the balance of fiscal 2016. In addition, we are expanding our presence in the fast-growing in-flight connectivity market. We believe we are a leader in this market and expect strong sales into this market during fiscal 2016 and beyond. Bookings, sales and profitability in our RF microwave amplifiers segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including the challenging business conditions and U.S. and international military budget constraints that currently exist, and the timing of, and our related performance on, contracts from the U.S. government (including prime contractors to the U.S. government) and international customers. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment represented 35.5% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to 26.4% for the three months ended January 31, 2015 . Mobile Data Communications Net sales in our mobile data communications segment were $6.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to $6.3 million for the three months ended January 31, 2015 , an increase of $0.5 million, or 7.9% . Sales in both periods primarily reflect our efforts in providing BFT-1 sustainment support services to the U.S. Army (including $2.5 million of net sales related to our annual $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license fee) and are expected to continue at the same levels for each of the remaining fiscal 2016 quarters. Bookings, sales and profitability in our mobile data communications segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Our mobile data communications segment represented 9.7% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2016 , as compared to 7.7% for the three months ended January 31, 2015 . 32 Index Geography and Customer Type Sales to U.S. government customers (which include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors) approximated 42.0% and 27.5% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. International sales (which include sales to U.S. companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) approximated 38.0% and 60.8% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Domestic commercial sales approximated 20.0% and 11.7% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Gross Profit. Gross profit was $29.4 million and $37.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing a decrease of $8.5 million. This decrease was driven by lower consolidated net sales and an overall lower gross profit percentage. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales was 41.8% for the three months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to 46.3% for the three months ended January 31, 2015 . Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment sales is further discussed below. Our telecommunications transmission segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2016 , was significantly lower than the percentage we achieved for the three months ended January 31, 2015 . This decrease was primarily attributable to significantly lower sales and changes in product sales mix in our satellite earth station product line (both of which resulted in significantly lower gross profit margins). Our RF microwave amplifiers segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2016 , was lower as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2015 . This decrease is primarily the result of changes in overall segment sales mix. Our mobile data communications segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2016 , was higher as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2015 . The increase is primarily the result of changes in overall segment sales mix. Gross profit in both periods includes $2.5 million related to our annual $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license. Included in consolidated cost of sales for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $0.6 million and $0.7 million , respectively. As discussed in our Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory, we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage assumptions. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $15.0 million and $16.0 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing a decrease of $1.0 million. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 21.3% and 19.6% for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The increase in percentage is primarily due to lower overall consolidated net sales during the three months ended January 31, 2016 . Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $0.9 million in both three month periods ended January 31, 2016 and 2015. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $7.7 million and $9.7 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing a decrease of $2.0 million, or 20.6% . As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 11.0% and 11.9% for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. These decreases were driven by cost reduction activities and the completion of several research and development projects. 33 Index For the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , research and development expenses of $5.4 million and $6.8 million, respectively, related to our telecommunications transmission segment, $2.1 million and $2.4 million, respectively, related to our RF microwave amplifiers segment, and $0.1 million and $0.4 million, respectively, related to our mobile data communications segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million for both the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is not allocated to our three reportable operating segments. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , customers reimbursed us $2.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses, but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Acquisition Plan Expenses. As discussed in prior SEC filings, our President and CEO initiated an assessment of our operations and embarked on a focused acquisition plan. In this regard, during the three months ended January 31, 2016 , we incurred approximately $2.3 million of expenses related to our focused acquisition plan, the large majority of which related to our activities which resulted in the signing of a definitive merger agreement to acquire TCS (which is discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (18) - Subsequent Events and the section above entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016 "). There were no comparable expenses during the three months ended January 31, 2015 . Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $1.2 million and $1.6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. We expect amortization of intangible assets to materially increase as a result of our acquisition of TCS. Operating Income. Operating income for the three months ended January 31, 2016 was $3.2 million, or 4.6% of consolidated net sales as compared to $10.6 million, or 13.0% of consolidated net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2015 . Excluding $2.3 million of expenses related to our acquisition plan, operating income for the three months ended January 31, 2016 would have been $5.5 million, or 7.8% of consolidated net sales. Operating income (both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales) is discussed below, by segment. Our telecommunications transmission segment generated operating income of $4.8 million, or 12.4% of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2016 , as compared to $11.0 million, or 20.4% of related segment net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2015 . The decrease in operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is primarily due to significantly lower net sales activity and a lower gross profit, as a percentage of related net sales, as discussed above. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment generated operating income of $1.4 million, or 5.6% of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to $1.0 million, or 4.6% of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2015 . Operating income both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales benefited from overall higher segment net sales. Our mobile data communications segment generated operating income of $3.7 million, or 54.4% of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to $2.7 million, or 42.9% of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2015 . Operating income both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales benefited from a more favorable sales mix and lower research and development expenses, as discussed above. Unallocated operating expenses were $6.7 million and $4.1 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The increase is primarily due to the $2.3 million of expense related to our focused acquisition plan, the large majority of which related to our activities which resulted in our acquisition of TCS on February 23, 2016. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is included in unallocated operating expenses, was $1.1 million for both three month periods ended January 31, 2016 and 2015. Interest Expense. Interest expense was $0.1 million for both three month periods ended January 31, 2016 and 2015. As a result of the TCS acquisition and our New Credit Facility, interest expense is expected to materially increase for the remainder of fiscal 2016. 34 Index Interest Income and Other. Interest income and other for both three month periods ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 was $0.1 million. Interest income and other for both periods is primarily generated from interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits, money market mutual funds, certificates of deposit, and short-term U.S. Treasury securities which, at this time, are currently yielding a blended annual interest rate of approximately 0.44% . Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $0.8 million and $3.1 million for the three months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Our effective tax rate was 23.2% for the three months ended January 31, 2016 , as compared to 28.7% for the three months ended January 31, 2015 . Our effective tax rate for the three months ended January 31, 2016 reflects a discrete tax benefit of approximately $0.3 million, primarily related to the passage of legislation that included the retroactive, permanent extension of the federal research and experimentation credit from December 31, 2014. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended January 31, 2015 reflects a discrete tax benefit of approximately $0.6 million, primarily related to the passage of legislation that included the retroactive extension of the research and experimentation credit from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014 and the finalization of certain tax deductions in connection with the filing of certain foreign fiscal 2014 income tax returns. Excluding discrete tax items in both periods, our effective tax rate for the three months ended January 31, 2016 would have been 33.5% as compared to 34.75% for the three months ended January 31, 2015 . The decrease from 34.75% to 33.5% is principally attributable to the retroactive, permanent extension of the federal research and experimentation credit from December 31, 2014, and expected product and geographical mix changes reflected in our fiscal 2016 business outlook. In December 2015, we received notification from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") of its intent to audit our federal income tax return for fiscal 2014. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2012 and 2013 are also subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2011 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2016 AND JANUARY 31, 2015 Except to the extent expressly stated, the following discussion gives no effect to our acquisition of TCS which closed on February 23, 2016. Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $134.4 million and $158.2 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing a decrease of $23.8 million, or 15.0% . As further discussed below, the period-over-period decrease primarily reflects significantly lower net sales in our telecommunications transmission segment, partially offset by higher net sales in our RF microwave amplifiers and mobile data communications segments. Telecommunications Transmission Net sales in our telecommunications transmission segment were $73.8 million and $105.2 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, a significant decrease of $31.4 million, or 29.8% . This decrease reflects lower comparative net sales in both our satellite earth station and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines, as further discussed below. Both net sales and bookings for our satellite earth station products were significantly lower during the six months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to the six months ended January 31, 2015 as our international customers continue to face significant economic challenges. As end-markets for our satellite earth station products have been and continue to be significantly impacted by adverse global business conditions, we are now expecting annual satellite earth station product sales to decrease in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015. The fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 is expected to be the peak quarter of sales for this product line in fiscal 2016. 35 Index Net sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems were significantly lower during the six months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to the six months ended January 31, 2015 . Annual and quarterly sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems and products tend to fluctuate, based on the timing of, and our related performance on large customer contacts. In this regard, although we continued performance during the six months ended January 31, 2016 on our two large multi-year contracts to design and supply over-the-horizon microwave systems and equipment for a North African government, both of these contracts are nearing completion. Sales generated from this contract during six months ended January 31, 2016 were significantly lower than sales generated during the six months ended January 31, 2015 and these sales are not expected to increase during the remainder of our contract performance. Although lower sales from the two large contracts are expected to result in lower annual over-the-horizon microwave systems sales in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015, we are expecting strong bookings during the second half of fiscal 2016. We anticipate receiving and starting shipment of large new orders from one or more international customers who have expressed strong interest in our products. The fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 is expected to be the peak quarter of sales for this product line in fiscal 2016. In the aggregate, sales in our telecommunications transmission segment are expected to decline in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015. Bookings, sales and profitability in our telecommunications transmission segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including the book and ship nature of our satellite earth station products, the current volatile and adverse conditions in the global economy, and the timing of, and our related performance on, contracts from the U.S. government (including prime contractors to the U.S. government) and from both existing and new international customers. Our telecommunications transmission segment represented 54.9% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2016 , as compared to 66.5% for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . RF Microwave Amplifiers Net sales in our RF microwave amplifiers segment were $47.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 , as compared to $40.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2015 , an increase of $7.2 million, or 17.8% . This increase reflects higher sales in both our traveling wave tube amplifier and solid-state high-power amplifier product lines. To date, adverse global business conditions that have impacted our satellite earth station product line have not significantly impacted our RF microwave amplifiers segment. While we have seen a delay in some orders, we continue to expect that fiscal 2016 will be another year of sales and bookings growth for this segment. Customer reaction to our new SuperPower TM traveling wave tube amplifiers has been extremely positive. We received our first order for this new product in fiscal 2015, received orders for this product in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2016 and we are expecting significant additional orders during the balance of fiscal 2016. In addition, we are expanding our presence in the fast-growing in-flight connectivity market. We believe we are a leader in this market and expect strong sales into this market during fiscal 2016 and beyond. Bookings, sales and profitability in our RF microwave amplifiers segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including the challenging business conditions and U.S. and international military budget constraints that currently exist, and the timing of, and our related performance on, contracts from the U.S. government (including prime contractors to the U.S. government) and international customers. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment represented 35.4% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to 25.5% for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . Mobile Data Communications Net sales in our mobile data communications segment were $13.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to $12.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2015 , an increase of $0.5 million, or 4.0% . Sales in both periods primarily reflect our efforts in providing BFT-1 sustainment support services to the U.S. Army (including $5.0 million of net sales related to our annual $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license fee) and are expected to continue at the same levels for the balance of fiscal 2016. Bookings, sales and profitability in our mobile data communications segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Our mobile data communications segment represented 9.7% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2016 , as compared to 8.0% for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . 36 Index Geography and Customer Type Sales to U.S. government customers (which include sales to the DoD, intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors) approximated 41.7% and 26.2% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. International sales (which include sales to U.S. companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) approximated 40.9% and 61.0% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Domestic commercial sales approximated 17.4% and 12.8% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Gross Profit. Gross profit was $57.6 million and $73.2 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing a decrease of $15.6 million. This decrease was driven by lower consolidated net sales and an overall lower gross profit percentage. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales was 42.9% for the six months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to 46.3% for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment sales is further discussed below. Our telecommunications transmission segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2016 , was lower than the percentage we achieved for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . This decrease was primarily attributable to significantly lower sales and changes in product sales mix in our satellite earth station product line (both of which resulted in significantly lower gross profit margins), offset in part by better than expected performance on our over-the-horizon microwave systems contracts. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2016 was slightly lower as compared to the six months ended January 31, 2015 . This decrease is primarily the result of changes in overall segment sales mix. Our mobile data communications segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2016 , was higher as compared to the six months ended January 31, 2015 . The increase is primarily the result of changes in overall segment sales mix. Gross profit in both periods includes $5.0 million related to our annual $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license. Included in consolidated cost of sales for both the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $1.3 million . As discussed in our Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory, we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage assumptions. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $30.4 million and $31.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing a decrease of $1.2 million. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 22.6% and 20.0% for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The increase in percentage is primarily due to lower overall consolidated net sales during the six months ended January 31, 2016 . Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $1.8 million in the six months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to $2.0 million in the six months ended January 31, 2015 . This decrease is primarily related to changes in the timing of grants for certain stock-based awards. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $15.6 million and $19.7 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing a decrease of $4.1 million, or 20.8% . As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 11.6% and 12.5% for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. These decreases were driven by cost reduction activities and the completion of several research and development projects. 37 Index For the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , research and development expenses of $10.9 million and $14.1 million, respectively, related to our telecommunications transmission segment, $4.3 million and $4.6 million, respectively, related to our RF microwave amplifiers segment, and $0.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively, related to our mobile data communications segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.2 million and $0.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is not allocated to our three reportable operating segments. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , customers reimbursed us $4.8 million and $4.3 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses, but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Acquisition Plan Expenses. As discussed in prior SEC filings, our President and CEO initiated an assessment of our operations and embarked on a focused acquisition plan. In this regard, during the six months ended January 31, 2016 , we incurred approximately $3.7 million of expenses related to our focused acquisition plan, the large majority of which related to our activities which resulted in the signing of a definitive merger agreement to acquire TCS (which is discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (18) - Subsequent Events and the section above entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016 "). There were no comparable expenses during the six months ended January 31, 2015 . Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $2.6 million and $3.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. We expect amortization of intangible assets to materially increase as a result of our acquisition of TCS. Operating Income. Operating income for the six months ended January 31, 2016 was $5.4 million, or 4.0% of consolidated net sales as compared to $18.8 million, or 11.9% of consolidated net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . Excluding $3.7 million of expenses related to our focused acquisition plan, operating income for the six months ended January 31, 2016 would have been $9.1 million, or 6.8% of consolidated net sales. Operating income (both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales) is discussed below, by segment. Our telecommunications transmission segment generated operating income of $7.2 million, or 9.8% of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2016 , as compared to $19.2 million, or 18.3% of related segment net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . The decrease in operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is primarily due to significantly lower net sales activity and a lower gross profit, as a percentage of related net sales, as discussed above. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment generated operating income of $3.4 million, or 7.1% of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to $2.0 million, or 5.0% of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . Operating income both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales benefited from overall higher segment net sales. Our mobile data communications segment generated operating income of $6.7 million, or 51.1% of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to $5.6 million, or 44.4% of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . Operating income both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales benefited from lower research and development expenses, as discussed above. Unallocated operating expenses were $11.9 million and $8.0 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The increase is primarily due to the $3.7 million of expense related to our focused acquisition plan, the large majority of which related to our activities which resulted in our acquisition of TCS on February 23, 2016 . Unallocated operating expenses during the six months ended January 31, 2015 include $0.6 million of expenses related to our strategic alternatives analysis which was completed in December 2014. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is included in unallocated operating expenses, was $2.1 million and $2.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Interest Expense. Interest expense was $0.1 million and $0.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. As a result of the TCS acquisition and our New Credit Facility, interest expense is expected to materially increase for the remainder of fiscal 2016. 38 Index Interest Income and Other. Interest income and other for both six month periods ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 was $0.2 million. Interest income and other for both periods is primarily generated from interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits, money market mutual funds, certificates of deposit, and short-term U.S. Treasury securities which, at this time, are currently yielding a blended annual interest rate of approximately 0.44% . Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $1.5 million and $5.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Our effective tax rate was 27.9% for the six months ended January 31, 2016 , as compared to 31.4% for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . Our effective tax rate for the six months ended January 31, 2016 reflects a discrete tax benefit of approximately $0.3 million, primarily related to the passage of legislation that included the retroactive, permanent extension of the federal research and experimentation credit from December 31, 2014. Our effective tax rate for the six months ended January 31, 2015 reflects a discrete tax benefit of approximately $0.6 million, primarily related to the passage of legislation that included the retroactive extension of the research and experimentation credit from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014 and the finalization of certain tax deductions in connection with the filing of certain foreign fiscal 2014 income tax returns. Excluding discrete tax items in both periods, our effective tax rate for the six months ended January 31, 2016 would have been 33.5% as compared to 34.75% for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . The decrease from 34.75% to 33.5% is principally attributable to the retroactive, permanent extension of the federal research and experimentation credit from December 31, 2014, and expected product and geographical mix changes reflected in our fiscal 2016 business outlook. In December 2015, we received notification from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") of its intent to audit our federal income tax return for fiscal 2014. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2012 and 2013 are also subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2011 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Except to the extent expressly stated, the following discussion gives no effect to our acquisition of TCS which closed on February 23, 2016. Our cash and cash equivalents increased to $163.5 million at January 31, 2016 from $151.0 million at July 31, 2015 , an increase of $12.5 million . The increase in cash and cash equivalents during the six months ended January 31, 2016 was driven by the following: Net cash provided by operating activities was $ 23.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to net cash used of $ 8.2 million for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . The significant period-over-period increase in cash flow from operating activities is attributable to overall changes in net working capital requirements, most notably the timing of billings and payments related to our large over-the-horizon microwave system contracts. Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended January 31, 2016 was $ 1.5 million as compared to $ 2.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . Both of these amounts primarily represent expenditures relating to ongoing equipment upgrades and enhancements. Net cash used in financing activities was $ 9.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2016 as compared to $ 9.0 million for the six months ended January 31, 2015 . During both the six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015 , we paid $9.7 million in cash dividends to our shareholders. 39 Index Our investment policy relating to our cash and cash equivalents is intended to minimize principal loss while at the same time maximize the income we receive without significantly increasing risk. To minimize risk, we generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in money market mutual funds (both government and commercial), certificates of deposit, bank deposits, and U.S. Treasury securities. Many of our money market mutual funds invest in direct obligations of the U.S. government, bank securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, certificates of deposit and commercial paper and other securities issued by other companies. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we believe our investment policies are appropriate in the current environment. Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market. As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note ( 9) - Credit Facility and the section above entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016, we acquired TCS on February 23, 2016 and entered into a five-year New Credit Facility pursuant to a Credit Agreement with a syndicate of lenders. The New Credit Facility and the related Credit Agreement are described in further detail in "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Financing Arrangements - $400.0 Million New Credit Facility." Our material short-term cash requirements primarily consist of: (i) quarterly interest payments and principal repayments associated with the New Credit Facility, (ii) our ongoing working capital needs, including income tax payments and (iii) accrued quarterly dividends. As of January 31, 2016 and March 9, 2016 , we were authorized to repurchase up to an additional $8.7 million of our common stock, pursuant to our current $100.0 million stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase program has no time restrictions and repurchases may be made in open-market or privately negotiated transactions and may be made pursuant to SEC Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. There were no repurchases of our common stock during the three or six months ended January 31, 2016 and 2015. As a result of the acquisition of TCS, we do not currently anticipate purchasing additional shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. During the six months ended January 31, 2016 , our Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends of $0.30 per common share aggregating $9.7 million of which $4.8 million was paid during the six months ended January 31, 2016 with the remainder paid on February 17, 2016 . On March 10, 2016 , our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per common share, payable on May 20, 2016 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 20, 2016 . This latest dividend declaration represents our twenty-third consecutive quarterly dividend. Future dividends are subject to Board approval and compliance with financial covenants under our New Credit Facility. Our material long-term cash requirements primarily consist of mandatory interest payments and principal repayments pursuant to our New Credit Facility and payments relating to our operating leases. In addition, we expect to make future cash payments of approximately $4.5 million related to our 2009 Radyne-related restructuring plan, including accreted interest. For further information regarding our Radyne restructuring plan, see Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (8) - Radyne Acquisition-Related Restructuring Plan. We have historically met both our short-term and long-term cash requirements with funds provided by a combination of cash and cash equivalent balances, cash generated from operating activities and cash generated from financing transactions. In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions and overall adverse business conditions, we continue to receive requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. We have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests and have experienced an increase in bad debt expense in recent periods attributable to one international customer located in South America. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio and, except for this one international customer, we have not had any material negative customer credit experiences. Based on our anticipated level of future sales and operating income, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalent balances, our cash generated from operating activities and our New Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet both our currently anticipated short-term and long-term operating cash requirements. Although it is difficult in the current economic and credit environment to predict the terms and conditions of financing that may be available in the future, should our short-term or long-term cash requirements increase beyond our current expectations, we believe that we would have sufficient access to credit from financial institutions and/or financing from public and private debt and equity markets. 40 Index FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS $400.0 Million New Credit Facility In connection with our acquisition of TCS, discussed further in Note (18) - " Subsequent Events ," on February 23, 2016 we entered into a five-year $400.0 million secured credit facility with a syndicate of lenders. The New Credit Facility currently provides a senior secured term A loan facility of $250.0 million (the Term Loan Facility) and a senior secured revolving loan facility of up to $150.0 million , including a $25.0 million letter of credit sublimit (the Revolving Loan Facility and, together, with the Term Loan Facility, the New Credit Facility), each of which mature in five years, on February 23, 2021. The New Credit Facility was used to finance, in part, the acquisition of TCS, a Maryland corporation, and its subsidiaries and is intended to be used to pay related transaction and merger-related expenditures. The proceeds of the Revolving Loan Facility will be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries, including the issuance of letters of credit and the repayment of certain existing indebtedness. Borrowings under the New Credit Facility shall be either: (i) ABR borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined in the New Credit Facility) in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate (as defined in the New Credit Facility) in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1.00% per annum and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate (as defined in the New Credit Facility) on such day (or, if such day is not a business day, the immediately preceding business day) plus 1.00% per annum, plus (y) the Applicable Rate (as defined in the New Credit Facility), or (ii) Eurodollar borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such interest period plus (y) the Applicable Rate. The Applicable Rate is determined based on a pricing grid that is dependent upon the Companys leverage ratio as of the end of the fiscal quarter of the Company for which financial statements have most recently been delivered. The New Credit Facility contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants. The New Credit Facility also contains customary negative covenants, subject to negotiated exceptions, on (i) liens, (ii) investments, (iii) indebtedness, (iv) significant corporate changes, including mergers and acquisitions, (v) dispositions, (vi) restricted payments, including stockholder dividends, and (vii) certain other restrictive agreements. The New Credit Facility also contains certain financial covenants and customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate), such as payment defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency, the occurrence of a defined change in control and the failure to observe the negative covenants and other covenants related to the operation of our business. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be required to enter into amendment to the New Credit Facility in connection with the further syndication of the New Credit Facility. Any such material amendment will be disclosed in a future SEC filing. The obligations under the New Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of the Companys domestic subsidiaries (the Subsidiary Guarantors). As collateral security under the New Credit Facility and the guarantees thereof, the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors have granted to the administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a lien on, and first priority security interest in, substantially all of their tangible and intangible assets. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS As of January 31, 2016 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. COMMITMENTS In the normal course of business, other than as discussed below, we routinely enter into binding and non-binding purchase obligations primarily covering anticipated purchases of inventory and equipment. We do not expect that these commitments, as of January 31, 2016 , will materially adversely affect our liquidity. At January 31, 2016 , cash payments due under long-term obligations, excluding purchase orders that we entered into in our normal course of business are as follows: Obligations Due by Fiscal Years or Maturity Date (in thousands) Total Remainder of 2016 2017 and 2018 2019 and 2020 After 2020 Operating lease commitments $ 32,103,000 3,285,000 11,281,000 7,412,000 10,125,000 In fiscal 2015, we entered into a multi-year purchase agreement in the amount of $12.9 million for certain inventory items. Such amount is not included in the above table because the purchase agreement is cancellable at our option. As of January 31, 2016 , our maximum liability under this purchase commitment was approximately $2.5 million. Additionally, the above table does not reflect any obligations associated with the acquisition of TCS, including any principal or interest payments in connection with our New Credit Facility. 41 Index As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (16) - Stockholders Equity, on March 10, 2016 , our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per common share, payable on May 20, 2016 to our shareholders of record at the close of business on April 20, 2016 . No future dividend amounts are included in the above table. At January 31, 2016 , we have approximately $1.7 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our old Credit Facility related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts. Such amounts are not included in the above table. In the ordinary course of business, we include indemnification provisions in certain of our customer contracts. Pursuant to these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify, hold harmless and reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, including but not limited to losses related to third-party intellectual property claims. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these agreements due to a history of nominal claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. To date, there have not been any material costs or expenses incurred in connection with such indemnification clauses. Our insurance policies may not cover the cost of defending indemnification claims or providing indemnification. As a result, if a claim were asserted against us by any party that we have agreed to indemnify, we could incur future legal costs and damages. We have change in control agreements, severance agreements and indemnification agreements with certain of our executive officers and certain key employees. All of these agreements may require payments by us, in certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in control of our Company or an involuntary termination of employment without cause. Our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 31, 2016 includes total liabilities of $3.1 million for uncertain tax positions, including interest, any or all of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of any potential cash settlement with the taxing authorities. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS We are required to prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board's (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) which is the source for all authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which is commonly referred to as GAAP. The ASC is subject to updates by the FASB, which are known as Accounting Standards Updates (ASUs). As further discussed in Note (2) - Adoption of Accounting Standards and Updates included in Part I Item 1. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, during the six months ended January 31, 2016 , we adopted: FASB ASU No. 2014-08 which changed the definition of discontinued operations and related disclosure requirements. Only those disposed components (or components held-for-sale) representing a strategic shift that have (or will have) a major effect on operations and financial results will be reported as discontinued operations. Continuing involvement will no longer prevent a disposal group from being presented as discontinued operations. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2014-16 which requires an entity that issues or invests in hybrid financial instruments, issued in the form of a share, to determine the nature of the host contract by considering all stated and implied substantive terms and features of the hybrid financial instrument, weighing each term and feature on the basis of relevant facts and circumstances and including the embedded derivative feature that is being evaluated for separate accounting from the host contract. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2015-01 which eliminates the concept of extraordinary items from GAAP and expands the presentation and disclosure guidance for items that are unusual in nature or occur infrequently. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2015-02 which amends current consolidation guidance affecting the evaluation of whether certain legal entities should be consolidated. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. 42 Index FASB ASU No. 2015-03 which requires that debt issuance costs be presented as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability, consistent with the presentation of debt discounts. Also, ASU No. 2015-15 was issued in August 2015 and indicates that Securities and Exchange Commission staff would not object to an entity deferring and presenting debt issuance costs associated with a line of credit arrangement as an asset and subsequently amortizing the deferred debt issuance costs ratably over the term of the line of credit arrangement, regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2015-05 which provides guidance to customers about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any material impact on our consolidated financial statements. FASB ASU No. 2015-07 which removes the requirements to categorize within the fair value hierarchy, and make certain disclosures related to, investments for which fair value is measured using the net asset value per share practical expedient. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2015-17 which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a statement of financial position. As discussed further in Note (10) - " Income Taxes " included in Part I Item 1. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we adopted this ASU prospectively on August 1, 2015 and reclassified our net deferred tax assets and liabilities to the net non-current deferred tax asset in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet beginning as of October 31, 2015. No prior periods were retrospectively adjusted. In addition, the following FASB ASUs have been issued and incorporated into the ASC and have not yet been adopted by us as of January 31, 2016 : FASB ASU No. 2014-09, issued in May 2014, which replaces numerous requirements in U.S. GAAP, including industry-specific requirements, and provides a single revenue recognition model for contracts with customers. The core principle of the new standard is that a company should record revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, ASU No. 2015-14 was issued to defer the effective date of ASU No. 2014-09 by one year. As a result, ASU No. 2014-09 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2018), and can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. Early adoption is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2017). We are evaluating which transition approach to use and the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements, including financial reporting and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2014-12, issued in June 2014, which requires that a performance target which affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant-date fair value of the award at the grant date. This ASU is effective in our first quarter of fiscal 2017, and can be adopted either (a) prospectively to all awards granted or modified after the effective date, or (b) retrospectively to all awards with performance targets that are outstanding as of the beginning of the earliest annual period presented in the financial statements and to all new or modified awards thereafter. As we currently do not have share-based awards outstanding with a performance target that could be achieved after the requisite service period, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. FASB ASU No. 2014-15, issued in August 2014, which provides guidance about management's responsibility to evaluate whether there is a substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. This ASU is effective for the annual period ending after December 15, 2016 (our fiscal year ending on July 31, 2017). Early adoption is permitted. As we currently do not believe that there is a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. 43 Index FASB ASU No. 2015-11, issued in July 2015, which simplifies the guidance on the subsequent measurement of inventory other than inventory measured using the last-in, first out or the retail inventory method. This ASU requires in-scope inventory to be subsequently measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value, the latter of which is defined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2017), and should be applied prospectively with earlier adoption permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements. FASB ASU No. 2015-16, issued in September 2015, which requires an acquirer to recognize adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. Acquirers must recognize, in the same reporting period, the effect on earnings of changes in depreciation, amortization, or other income effects, if any, as a result of the changes to the provisional amounts, calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date. This ASU also requires an entity to present separately on the face of the income statement or disclose in the notes the portion of the amount recorded in current-period earnings by line item that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustments to the provisional amount had been recorded as of the acquisition date. We adopted this ASU as of February 1, 2016 and will apply it to the accounting for our February 23, 2016 acquisition of TCS. FASB ASU No. 2016-01, issued January 2016, is an update to ASC 825 " Financial Instruments " and changes the treatment for available for sale equity investments by recognizing unrealized fair value changes directly in net income, and no longer in other comprehensive income. In addition, the impairment assessment of equity securities without readily determinable fair values is simplified by allowing a qualitative assessment. The ASU eliminates the disclosure requirement of methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value for financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet. Additional disclosure of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form is also required. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2018), including interim periods within those fiscal years and should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. Early adoption of the provisions affecting us is not permitted. As we currently do not hold investments in available for sale securities, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. FASB ASU No. 2016-02, issued in February 2016, which requires lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases): (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee's obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee's right to use a specified asset for the lease term. Under the new guidance, lessor accounting is largely unchanged. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years (our fiscal year beginning in August 1, 2019) and should be applied with a modified retrospective approach with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures.