Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impact of COVID-19 and Business Outlook for Fiscal 2022 ." For a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA, see Part II - "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of Fiscal 2021 and 2020 - Adjusted EBITDA ." Our Internet website is www.comtechtel.com and we make available on our website: our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including annual reports, quarterly reports, current reports and any amendments to those filings. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained therein into this Form 10-K. We also use our website to disseminate other material information to our investors (on the Home Page and in the "Investor Relations" section). Among other things, we post on our website our press releases and information about our public conference calls (including the scheduled dates, times and the methods by which investors and others can listen to those calls), and we make available for replay webcasts of those calls and other presentations for a limited time. We also use social media channels to communicate with customers and the public about our Company, our products, services and other issues, and we use social media and the Internet to communicate with investors, including information about our stockholder meetings. Information and updates about our Annual Meetings will continue to be posted on our website at www.comtechtel.com in the "Investor Relations" section. 1 We are incorporated in the state of Delaware and were founded in 1967. Corporate Strategies We intend to manage our business with the following principal corporate strategies: Seek leadership positions in markets where we can provide differentiated products and technology solutions; Identify and participate in emerging technologies that enhance or expand our product portfolio; Maximize responsiveness to our customers, including offering more integrated systems and solutions; Expand and further penetrate our diversified and balanced customer base; and Pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies. Competitive Strengths The successful execution of our principal corporate strategies is based on our competitive strengths, including the following: (1) We Have Significant Exposure to Large, Growing End Markets We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on some of the most significant long-term technology trends occurring worldwide and that customers around the world will increasingly turn to us to fulfill their needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial. These important technology trends include the expansion of 5G mobile networks and the integration of satellite communications into mobile phones, the need for public safety agencies to seamlessly integrate various networks and protocols and utilize precise location to connect individuals with first responders, the expanding breadth of High Definition ("HD") and 4K broadcasting content, and the need for governments to have more modern and mobile communications and transmission equipment to successfully complete mission-critical goals. We believe that all these long-term trends generate growth in global voice, video and data usage that, in turn, drives increased long-term demand for the secure wireless communications solutions that we provide. We are in the process of further focusing both our research and development and marketing efforts to advance our next-generation satellite technology solution offerings that are targeted for use on new broadband satellite constellations. Thousands of new LEO, medium-earth-orbit ("MEO") and even geosynchronous equatorial orbit ("GEO") satellites are reportedly being launched over the next several years. Satellite constellations will provide internet access across the world, support increasing demand for data transmission, and will be facilitated by solutions that we provide, including ground station equipment such as Single Channel per Carrier ("SCPC") and time division multiple access (TDMA) modems, solid-state amplifiers and X/Y steerable antennas. In fiscal 2021, we entered into a strategic and highly valued multi-year agreement enabling a large new customer to potentially order hundreds of millions of dollars of our next-generation satellite earth station technology that can be used with the thousands of LEO satellites reportedly being launched over the next several years. Shortly after we signed this agreement, we received our first order valued at more than $13.0 million to make certain customizations on behalf of this customer. Work on these efforts commenced immediately. 2 (2) We Believe We Are a Market Leader in the End-Markets That We Serve Commercial Solutions Segment Satellite Ground Station Technologies - We believe we are the leading provider of satellite earth station modems, solid-state amplifiers and traveling wave tube amplifiers. Many of our key satellite earth station modems incorporate Turbo Product Code ("TPC") or Low Density Parity Check ("LDPC") forward error correction and bandwidth compression technologies, which enable our customers to optimize their satellite networks by either reducing their satellite transponder lease costs or increasing data throughput. We hold leadership positions in the market for high throughput modems used in cellular backhaul, a market that has been rapidly growing due to increased mobile phone use as well as LTE and 5G deployments. In fiscal 2021, we added to our product portfolio software-defined TDMA technology, which delivers industry-leading bandwidth-efficiency and flexibility to our customers. Our amplifier products are used to amplify signals carrying voice, video or data for air-to-satellite-to-ground communications and are vital to satellite communication applications such as traditional broadcast, direct-to-home ("DTH") broadcast and satellite newsgathering. We differentiate our amplifier product offerings by our ability to develop the most efficient size, weight and power profile. We believe that our expertise complying with regulatory and performance restrictions, particularly in challenging frequency bands such as X, Ka and Q, is a key differentiator. Demand for equipment in these challenging frequency bands is expected to grow over the coming years as new constellations are launched, such as Amazon Kuiper, SpaceX Starlink, Telesat Lightspeed and High Throughput Satellites ("HTS") from other providers. Certain of our amplifiers are DO-160 certified (an airborne quality standard) and when incorporated into an aircraft satellite communication system, can provide passengers, both commercial and military, with email, Internet access and video conferencing. Public Safety and Location Technologies - In fiscal 2021, we were recognized by Frost & Sullivan, a leading industry research firm, for registering the most significant year-over-year market share increase among all NG-911 primary contract holders, growing our market share from an estimated 17.3% in 2019 to 26.2% in 2020, as calculated by Frost & Sullivan. By closing statewide contracts in Arizona, Iowa, Ohio, Pennsylvania and South Carolina, our direct NG-911 contracts now represent a population of over 60 million in the U.S., and over 25 million in Australia via Next Generation 000 contracts. As such, we believe that we are a leader in public safety communication and location technologies. We meet the ISO 27001 data security standard and believe we have significant market share in the routing of U.S. wireless 911 calls, Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") 911 calls and Text to 911 messaging. We believe we are one of a limited number of companies fulfilling the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") requirements for Enhanced 911 ("E911") call-routing to Public Safety Answering Points ("PSAPs") for wireless and VoIP network operators. E911 refers to 911 calls for both wireline and wireless telephones that are enhanced to provide the caller's location information. We are focusing our marketing and research and development efforts to meet system standards for NG-911, which refers to an Internet Protocol ("IP") based system that defines how digital information (e.g., voice, photos, videos and text messages) flows seamlessly from the public to the PSAPs, and on to emergency responders. With more than 85 global deployments of our Location Based Services (LBS) platform, we are a leading global provider of device location for both public safety and commercial applications. Leveraging decades of our location-based technology expertise, our solutions support the generation and distribution of location information for both indoor and outdoor environments. We have developed industry leading 2G through 5G mobile network and WiFi location functions, robust mapping, navigation and geolocation solutions incorporated by industry verticals such as public safety, automotive manufacturing, mobile network operators (MNOs) and retail. We provide a high-capacity, multiprotocol Short-Messaging-Service (SMS) platform for Person-to-Person (P2P), Application-to-Person (A2P) and Machine-to-Machine (M2M) communications. In addition, we offer Location Studio, a complete end-to-end location application platform consisting of maps, map data, geo-services, application program interfaces (APIs) and software development kits ("SDKs") enabling MNOs, application developers, public safety ecosystems, and enterprises to build custom and unique applications. 3 Government Solutions Segment Tactical Communications Technologies - We are a key supplier to large governments (particularly the U.S. government) and large prime contractors for tactical communications technologies, primarily tactical satellite-based technology solutions, field support services and satellite component supply chain management. We are a prime contractor under several indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") defense contract vehicles, including the: (i) U.S. Armys Global Tactical Advanced Communications Systems ("GTACS") contract; (ii) U.S. Armys Global Tactical Advanced Communications Systems (GTACS II) contract; (iii) U.S. Navys Seaport Next Generation (SeaPort-Nxg) contract; (iv) Complex Commercial SATCOM Solutions ("CS3") contract; (v) Communications Electronics Command ("CECOM") Responsive Strategic Sourcing for Services ("RS3") contract with the U.S. Army Contracting Command - Aberdeen Proving Ground (ACC-APG); and (vi) Advanced Battle Management System ("ABMS") contract for the Air Force Life Cycle Management Center. We provide field support sustainment services, centralized and deployed depot services and technology insertion services to the U.S. Armys AN/TSC-198 family of communication systems that are commonly referred to as "SNAP" (Secret Internet Protocol Router ("SIPR") and Non-secure Internet Protocol Router ("NIPR") Access Point) Very Small Aperture Terminals ("VSATs"). Our field support services include providing U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD") personnel with curriculum development and training services to support cybersecurity workforce development. We provide high reliability Electrical, Electronic and Electromechanical (EEE) parts for use in satellite, launch vehicle and manned space applications. We also provide services encompassing all aspects of ground station life cycle to include requirements definition and analysis; design, development and integration of turnkey systems from antenna to data processing; civil works and construction; station installation and verification; operations and maintenance; and decommissioning at end of life. We also provide to customers worldwide a line of X/Y steerable satellite tracking antenna systems ideal for LEO, MEO and GEO constellations. High-Performance Transmission Technologies - We are a world leader in the design and supply of troposcatter equipment, and a key supplier of radio frequency ("RF") microwave solid-state, high-power amplifier and switching control technologies. We have designed, manufactured and delivered troposcatter systems (sometimes referred to as over-the-horizon ("OTH") microwave products and systems) for over fifty years and are one of the largest independent suppliers of solid-state, high-power RF microwave amplifiers and integrated transmit receive hardware, which reproduce signals with higher power, are extremely complex, and are critical to the performance of the systems into which they are incorporated. Our CS67PLUS software defined, adaptive troposcatter radio can operate at over 200 megabits per second ("Mbps"). The radio is MIL-STD 461 EMI and MIL-STD 810G environmentally compliant. Our Modular Tactical Transmission System ("MTTS") provides a high capacity, troposcatter and beyond-line-of-sight modular communications system designed for easy and rapid deployment. Our best-in-class troposcatter solutions led to our equipment being chosen to be used on the U.S. Marine Corps next generation troposcatter system Program of Record. These dual frequency systems are designed to operate in harsh environmental conditions and are protected from Electromagnetic Interference and Electromagnetic Pulse (EMI/EMP). Many solid-state RF microwave amplifier and switching control technologies are produced in-house by large companies; however, our expertise has created a cost-effective and technologically superior alternative to in-house sourcing. Some of the companies who have outsourced amplifier development and production to us include Rockwell Collins, Inc., European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company ("EADS"), Lockheed Martin Corporation, L3Harris Technologies, Inc., Northrop Grumman Corporation, BAE Systems Plc, the U.S. Navy and Raytheon Technologies Corporation. Our amplifiers are also used in oncology treatment systems that allow physicians to give cancer patients higher doses of radiation that are more closely focused on cancerous tissue, thereby minimizing damage to healthy tissue. (3) We Believe We Provide Industry Leading Innovation, Capabilities and Solutions We have established a leading position of technology innovation in our fields through internal and customer-funded research and development activities, which have yielded significant advances. Examples of our industry-leading innovation include: Our VSAT Networking Technologies and Platforms For the past several years, we have developed and manufactured Heights TM ("Heights"). Heights TM is an advanced satellite earth station networking platform that combines our most efficient waveforms, compression engines and the ability to provide dynamic bandwidth and power management to meet the demands of customers operating on traditional fixed satellite service systems ("FSS"), while providing advantages for customers who plan to transition to HTS systems in the future. Heights TM is ideally suited for cellular backhaul, universal service obligation networks and other applications that require high performance in a hub-spoke environment. Heights TM solutions are designed to deliver the highest Internet Protocol bits per Hertz in its class. 4 In fiscal 2021, we introduced a TDMA technology solution which offers best-in-class support for very large networks. With an estimated 3 billion people globally who are not connected to any wireless services, this technology allows our customers to cost-effectively provide services to end-users with the quality and reassurance of the Comtech brand and service offerings. We also intend to offer a solution that combines our Heights Dynamic Network Access ("H-DNA") and TDMA technologies in a single VSAT platform so that we can deliver a solution that will deliver increased value to our customers. Additionally, at the start of our fiscal 2022, we announced a technology and business development partnership with Kymeta Corporation, a satellite communications company to broaden network offerings by combining the Kymeta TM u8 terminal with our SLM-5650B modem and UHP-200 Universal Satellite Router. This solution will enable new and existing U.S. Department of Defense and commercial customers to operate state-of-the art technologies using cost-effective and seamless VSAT router solutions. Our Solacom Software Solutions We offer a best-in-class call handling solution marketed under the Solacom Guardian brand name, which provides an integrated text-to-and-from 911 solution on a unified platform. The solution provides a flexible user interface, adapts to varying customer environments and preferences, provides powerful call conferencing capabilities, enhanced reporting capabilities and offers geospatial 911 location call display directly from a customized map. Because of its advanced features, it allows us to offer an immediate upgrade path to existing and new customers and has expanded our presence in the public safety solutions market. We are investing in product enhancements of the Guardian software, including developing a cloud-based version so that we can offer software as a service ("SaaS") type solutions to our public safety customers. Our Compact Over-the-horizon Mobile Expeditionary Terminal (COMET TM ) We offer the Comtech COMET TM , the worlds smallest OTH microwave troposcatter terminal. Our Comtech COMET TM is rapidly deployable, low power and highly portable. Troposcatter technology has long been associated with large antennas and high-power amplifiers that require kilowatts of prime power and large trucks to transport them to the field. The COMET TM has fundamentally changed this paradigm. The COMET TM is capable of being transported in a carrying case by a single individual and set up in under fifteen minutes. The COMET TM is ideally suited for situations where high bandwidth backhaul communications are required, extending critical services into areas where there is no communications infrastructure, or the infrastructure has been destroyed. U.S. Special Forces, as well as non-U.S. NATO forces, have already begun procuring and deploying the COMET TM for high reliability, mission essential communications. Our "XyPoint " Mobile Location Platform Provided to MNOs globally, our virtualized LBS platform is a high availability robust solution with multiple positioning technologies, that allows authorized users to locate and track specific mobile devices and monitor specific areas of interest. MNOs can use this platform for location accuracy to support a wide variety of use cases, including public safety, location intelligence, network optimization and big data analytics. On the legacy front, our LBS platform is compatible within 2G through 4G wireless networks, as well as an enabler to the MNOs to seamlessly migrate to cloud native environments, as they start their migrations to 5G. (4) We Have a Diverse Global Customer Base We have established long-standing relationships with thousands of customers worldwide, including leading system and network suppliers in the global satellite (such as Intelsat S.A. and SES S.A.), mobile cellular (such as Verizon Wireless), defense, broadcast and aerospace industries, as well as the U.S. federal government (such as the U.S. Army and Navy), U.S. state and local governments, and foreign governments. Our global commercial and government customers are increasingly seeking integrated solutions to meet their operational needs. We believe that our customers recognize our ability to develop improved technologies and to meet stringent program requirements. Our ability to solve complex problems is well known and we believe we have strong relationships with our customers. We hold prime positions on several key contracts and have had a long history of servicing key programs. Business Segments Fundamentally, we offer advanced secure wireless communications technologies with expertise in the satellite communications and cellular markets. We believe these markets are undergoing a period of significant growth and rapid technological change. We manage our business through two reportable operating segments: Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions. Our corporate senior management team supports the business segments by, among other things, actively seeking to exploit potential synergies that exist between the segments, including in areas such as manufacturing, technology, sales, marketing, customer support and finance. The diagram below summarizes our key products, systems and services by our two reportable operating segments: 5 Commercial Solutions Segment Technologies (approximately 61.9% of fiscal 2021 net sales) Government Solutions Segment Technologies (approximately 38.1% of fiscal 2021 net sales) Satellite Ground Station Technologies Public Safety and Location Technologies Tactical Communications Technologies High-Performance Transmission Technologies Satellite ground station technologies such as SCPC modems, TDMA modems and networking platforms that facilitate the transmission of voice, video and data over satellite links including LEO and HTS satellite constellations Solid-state and traveling wave tube amplifiers used to amplify signals from satellite ground stations Wireless/VolP 911 service for network operators NextGen 911 solutions ESInet (Emergency Services IP Network) Call Handling applications for PSAPs Software and equipment for location-based and messaging services for various applications, including both public safety and commercial services Tactical satellite-based communications, field support and end-to-end integration Satellite-based mobile communications and tracking systems, including high precision full motion fixed and mobile X/Y satellite tracking antennas, RF feeds, reflectors and radomes Procurement and supply chain management of high reliability EEE parts for satellite, launch vehicle and manned space applications Over-the-horizon microwave equipment that can transmit digitized voice, video and data over distances up to 200 miles using the troposphere and diffraction, including the Comtech COMET TM Solid-state, RF microwave high-power amplifiers and control components designed for radar, electronic warfare, jamming, medical and aviation applications Commercial Solutions Segment Representative Customers Government Solutions Segment Representative Customers Satellite systems integrators, wireless and other communication service providers and broadcasters Domestic and international defense customers, as well as U.S. and foreign governments, prime contractors and system suppliers, such as General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, L3Harris Technologies, Inc., Raytheon Technologies Corporation, SED Systems (a division of Calian Ltd.), and ViaSat Inc. Satellite broadcasters, such as The DIRECTV Group and EchoStar Corporation U.S. state and local governments, such as Arizona, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Iowa, Maine, South Carolina and the state of Washington End-customers also include AT&T Inc., BT Group plc., China Mobile Limited, CenturyLink, Inc., Claro Argentina, Comcast Corporation, Intelsat S.A., Speedcast International Limited, Nokia Corporation, QUALCOMM Incorporated, SES S.A., T-Mobile USA, Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. U.S. Army, the U.S. Marine Corps, the U.S. Navy, prime contractors to the U.S. Armed Forces, NATO and foreign governments (i.e., ministries of defense) Domestic and international defense customers, prime contractors and system suppliers such as Lockheed Martin Corporation, L3 Harris Technologies, Inc., Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Technologies Corporation., SES S.A., and The Boeing Company Medical equipment companies, such as Varian Medical Systems, Inc., and aviation industry system integrators such as Collins Aerospace (a subsidiary of Raytheon Technologies Corporation) and Telephonics Corporation Foreign government customers in the Middle East, Europe, North Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific and related prime contractors and systems integrators Oil companies such as Shell Oil Company and PETRONAS Financial information about our business segments, including net sales, operating income, Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure), total assets, and our operations outside the United States, is provided in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (11) Segment Information" included in "Part II -