ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains, and oral statements made by our representatives from time to time may contain, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as: "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "future," "goal," "outlook," "intend," "likely," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "seek," "should," "strategy," "target," "will," "would," and similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements we make regarding our future performance and financial condition, plans to address our ability to continue as a going concern, plans and objectives of our management and our assumptions regarding such future performance, financial condition, and plans and objectives that involve certain significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors not under our control which may cause our actual results, future performance and financial condition, and achievement of our plans and objectives of our management to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: our ability to access capital and liquidity so that we are able to continue as a going concern; our ability to successfully implement changes in our executive leadership; the possibility that the expected synergies and benefits from acquisitions and/or restructuring activities will not be fully realized, or will not be realized within the anticipated time periods; the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully; the possibility of disruption from acquisitions or dispositions, making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships or retain key personnel; the risk that we will be unsuccessful in implementing our "One Comtech" transformation and integration of individual businesses into two segments; the risk that we will be unsuccessful in implementing a tactical shift in our Satellite and Space Communications segment away from bidding on large commodity service contracts and toward pursuing contracts for our niche products and solutions with higher margins; the nature and timing of our receipt of, and our performance on, new or existing orders that can cause significant fluctuations in net sales and operating results; the timing and funding of government contracts; adjustments to gross profits on long-term contracts; risks associated with international sales; rapid technological change; evolving industry standards; new product announcements and enhancements; changing customer demands and/or procurement strategies; changes in prevailing economic and political conditions, including as a result of Russia's military incursion into Ukraine, the Israel- Hamas war and escalating attacks in the Red Sea region; changes in the price of oil in global markets; changes in prevailing interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with our legal proceedings, customer claims for indemnification, and other similar matters; risks associated with our obligations under our Credit Facility and our ability to refinance our Credit Facility; risks associated with our large contracts; risks associated with supply chain disruptions; and other factors described in this and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). OVERVIEW We are a leading global provider of next-generation 911 emergency systems ("NG-911") and secure wireless and satellite communications technologies. This includes the critical communications infrastructure that people, businesses, and governments rely on when durable, trusted connectivity is required, no matter where they are on land, at sea, or in the air and no matter what the circumstances from armed conflict to a natural disaster. Our solutions are designed to fulfill our customers needs for secure wireless communications in the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial. We anticipate future growth in our business due to a trend of increasing demand for global voice, video and data usage in recent years, upgraded ground stations and related services resulting from the large quantities of satellites anticipated to be launched for new LEO and MEO constellations, digitization and virtualization of modems, the resurgence of troposcatter as a viable form of primary or backup communications, enhanced location positioning combined with data-rich geospatial intelligence, and the growth of 988 networks. We provide our solutions to both commercial and governmental customers within the converging satellite and space communications and terrestrial and wireless networking markets. Index 38 We manage our business through two reportable operating segments: Satellite and Space Communications - is organized into three technology areas: satellite modem technologies and amplifier technologies, troposcatter and SATCOM solutions and space components and antennas. This segment offers customers: satellite ground station technologies, services and system integration that facilitate the transmission of voice, video and data over GEO, MEO and LEO satellite constellations, including traveling wave tube power amplifiers, modems, VSAT platforms and frequency converters; satellite communications and tracking antenna systems, including high precision full motion fixed and mobile X/Y tracking antennas, RF feeds, reflectors and radomes; over-the-horizon microwave equipment that can transmit digitized voice, video, and data over distances up to 200 miles using the troposphere and diffraction, including the Comtech COMET; and procurement and supply chain management of high reliability Electrical, Electronic and Electromechanical ("EEE") parts for satellite, launch vehicle and manned space applications. Terrestrial and Wireless Networks - is organized into three service areas: next generation 911 and call delivery, Solacom call handling solutions, and trusted location and messaging solutions. This segment offers customers SMS text to 911 services, providing alternate paths for individuals who need to request assistance (via text messaging) a method to reach Public Safety Answering Points ("PSAPs"); next generation 911 solutions, providing emergency call routing, location validation, policy-based routing rules, logging and security functionality; Emergency Services IP Network transport infrastructure for emergency services communications and support of next generation 911 services; call handling applications for PSAPs; wireless emergency alerts solutions for network operators; and software and equipment for location-based and text messaging services for various applications, including for public safety, commercial and government services. Our Quarterly Financial Information Quarterly and period-to-period sales and operating results may be significantly affected by either short-term or long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, our gross profit is affected by a variety of factors, including the mix of products, systems and services sold, production efficiencies, estimates of warranty expense, price competition and general economic conditions. Our gross profit may also be affected by the impact of any cumulative adjustments to contracts that are accounted for over time. In particular, our contracts with the U.S. government can be terminated for convenience by it at any time and orders are subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. Some of these contracts are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts and, as such, the U.S. government is not obligated to purchase any equipment or services under these contracts. We have, in the past, experienced and we continue to expect significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period due to these factors. As such, comparisons between periods and our current results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each. Revenue Recognition. In accordance with FASB ASC 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606"), we record revenue in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for goods or services promised to customers. See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (4) - Revenue Recognition" for further information. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. As of January 31, 2024, total goodwill recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $333.1 million (of which $159.0 million relates to our Satellite and Space Communications segment and $174.1 million relates to our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment). Additionally, as of January 31, 2024, net intangibles recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $215.3 million (of which $61.7 million relates to our Satellite and Space Communications segment and $153.6 million relates to our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment). For purposes of reviewing impairment and the recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets, our Satellite and Space Communications and Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segments each constitute a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions in determining their estimated fair values. See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (15) - Goodwill and Note (16) - Intangible Assets" for further information. Index 39 Provision for Warranty Obligations. We provide warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long- term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment. We record a liability for estimated warranty expense based on historical claims, product failure rates and other factors. Costs associated with some of our warranties that are provided under long-term contracts are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs. There exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating warranty expenses, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. If we do not accurately estimate our warranty costs, any changes to our original estimates could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Accounting for Income Taxes. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. Our provision for income taxes is based on domestic (including federal, state and local) and international statutory income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions where we operate, permanent differences between financial reporting and tax reporting and available credits and incentives. The U.S. federal government, Canada and the United Kingdom are our most significant income tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and tax positions. We may be challenged upon review by the applicable taxing authority and positions taken by us may not be sustained. We recognize all or a portion of the benefit of income tax positions only when we have made a determination that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, based upon the technical merits of the position and other factors. For tax positions that are determined as "more likely than not" to be sustained upon examination, the tax benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We recognize potential interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. On a quarterly basis, we assess the realizability of deferred tax assets, based on all available evidence, including historical taxable income and estimates about future taxable income, and valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amount "more likely than not" expected to be realized. If actual outcomes differ materially from these subjective critical estimates, we will adjust these estimates in future periods, which could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Research and Development Costs. We generally expense all research and development costs. Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other personnel-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs. Costs incurred internally in researching and developing software to be sold are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the software. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. Technological feasibility for our advanced communication software solutions is generally reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to customers and when we are able to validate the marketability of such product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. To date, capitalized internally developed software costs were not material. Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage trends. Other factors may also influence our provision, including decisions to exit a product line, technological change and new product development. These factors could result in a change in the amount of excess and obsolete inventory on hand. Additionally, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory was overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charge could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We perform credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness, as determined by our review of our customers current credit information. Generally, we will require cash in advance or payment secured by irrevocable letters of credit before an order is accepted from an international customer that we do not do business with regularly. In addition, we seek to obtain insurance for certain domestic and international customers. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions and high interest rates, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. We have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio. To-date, there has been no material changes in our credit portfolio as a result of the challenging business conditions. Index 40 Although our overall credit losses have historically been within the allowances we established, we may not be able to accurately predict our future credit loss experience, given the current poor business environment. Measurement of credit losses requires consideration of historical loss experience, including the need to adjust for changing business conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates and the financial health of specific customers. Future changes to the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Fiscal 2024: Second Quarter Highlights and Business Outlook Financial highlights for the second quarter of fiscal 2024 include: Consolidated net sales were $134.2 million, compared to $151.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2024 and $133.7 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2023 (net sales in the more recent period reflect the timing of our receipt of and performance on orders received); Gross margin was 32.2%, compared to 31.5% in our first quarter of fiscal 2024 and 34.3% in our second quarter of fiscal 2023; GAAP operating income of $3.0 million, compared to $2.1 million in our first quarter of fiscal 2024 and a GAAP operating loss of $0.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2023 (the more recent period includes a $2.2 million estimated gain on the divestiture of our solid-state RF microwave high power amplifiers and control components product line on November 7, 2023 (the "PST Divestiture"); GAAP net loss attributable to common stockholders was $30.5 million, and included $17.9 million of charges specifically related to the exchange of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock for Series B Convertible Preferred Stock on January 22, 2024, $2.7 million of restructuring costs and $1.0 million of strategic emerging technology costs for next-generation satellite technology, offset in part by the $2.2 million estimated gain on the PST Divestiture (discussed above); GAAP and Non-GAAP EPS loss of $1.07 and $0.15, respectively; Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure discussed below) of $15.1 million, or 11.3% of consolidated net sales, compared to $11.3 million, or 8.5% of consolidated net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2023; New bookings (also referred to as orders) of $141.8 million, representing a quarterly book-to-bill ratio of 1.06x (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) and another strong quarter of order flow led by a $48.0 million five- year extension of our NG-911 contract with the State of Washington; Backlog of $680.1 million as of January 31, 2024, compared to $662.2 million as of July 31, 2023 and $702.0 million as of January 31, 2023; Revenue visibility of approximately $1.6 billion, consistent with last quarter and an increase from the $1.1 billion as of July 31, 2023. We measure this revenue visibility as the sum of our $680.1 million of funded backlog, plus the total unfunded value of certain multi-year contracts that we have received and from which we expect future orders; Operating cash activities were an outflow of $26.7 million, reflecting our use of a substantial portion of the net cash proceeds from the issuance of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock to significantly reduce accounts payable; Investing cash activities were an inflow of $28.2 million, reflecting the PST Divestiture; and Financing cash activities were an inflow of $20.3 million, reflecting our receipt of net cash proceeds from the issuance of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and use of a substantial portion of the net cash proceeds from the PST Divestiture to repay a significant portion of the Term Loan outstanding under our Credit Facility. Index 41 Non-GAAP financial measures discussed above are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the table included in the below section Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 and Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended January 31, 2024 and 2023. Other Recent Key Developments In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we were awarded a large, multi-year Global Field Service Representative (GFSR) contract by the U.S. Army. Through this program, our Satellite and Space Communications segment will provide communications and IT infrastructure support for the U.S. Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps and NATO, enabling U.S. and coalition forces to maintain robust, resilient and secure connectivity for global all-domain operations. Foundational to this success: Comtechs professional engineering services and extensive portfolio of resilient, blended, smart-enabled technologies. In November 2023, the incumbent protested the award, which resulted in a stop work order under the contract. In January 2024, the protest was dismissed in our favor and the stop work order was lifted. However, the incumbent protested the award again, which resulted in another stop work order. This contract has a total potential value of $544.0 million and is expected to start contributing significantly to our net sales in the latter part of fiscal 2024 and beyond, assuming a timely resolution of the protest in our favor. In the second quarter of fiscal 2024, our Satellite and Space Communications segment was awarded over $7.0 million of funded orders from two foreign militaries, who are evaluating our next generation Modular Transportable Transmission System ("MTTS") troposcatter solutions. We believe that these two new international customers could lead to larger scale troposcatter opportunities in the future. In the second quarter of fiscal 2024, our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment extended critical NG-911 services for the State of Washington. This extension is valued at $48.0 million over the next five years, with the option to extend further through 2034. Also, we extended critical call handling services provided to public safety answering points ("PSAPs") across Australia through our partnership with Telstra. These services, valued at approximately $6.0 million over the next several years, support Australia's "000" (911 equivalent) emergency communications. Additionally, we were recently awarded several multi- year NG-911 call handling services contracts, aggregating $6.5 million, for PSAPs located in Canada and the U.S. We believe Comtech's position as a trusted leader in 911 and public safety applications positions us increasingly well when it comes to delivering similarly sophisticated solutions for 988 emergencies. Also, we recently announced that we were invited by Innovation Canada to join a select group of companies participating in the Accelerated Growth Service ("AGS") program. The AGS program offers support to a number of high-growth, high-potential, qualifying businesses across Canada. As part of the program, we will gain access to key government services such as financing and export opportunities. The AGS program will also provide us with a personalized team of government experts to support our growth plans and help identify new government programs that could help us capture near and long-term business opportunities. One Comtech and People Strategy In December 2023, we announced the hiring of John Ratigan, who currently serves as our interim Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"). Mr. Ratigan was formerly CEO and President of iDirect Government and held a position as an Executive Committee Member of ST Engineering iDirect. Mr. Ratigan brings decades of leadership experience supporting U.S. government and Department of Defense customers across the globe, which aligns well with our strategic business priorities and continued expansion into new growth markets with one of the industry's most comprehensive portfolios of satellite ground station solutions. Also, as it relates to cybersecurity, in January 2024, we hired Sheryl Hanchar as our company-wide Chief Information Security Officer. With an extensive cybersecurity and military career, Ms. Hanchar is responsible for protecting our critical IP, as well as that of our commercial and government customers, including warfighters who rely on our solutions being secure. In March 2024, our corporate headquarters moved from Melville, New York to Chandler, Arizona. Our strategic decision to relocate our headquarters enables us to continue to execute on our growth trajectories and signifies yet another key step in our One Comtech transformation. With an ability to support several of our largest and key commercial and defense customers, our 146,000 square foot engineering and manufacturing facility in Chandler, Arizona (that also includes a customer experience center) was a logical choice for becoming our new headquarters. On March 12, 2024, our Board of Directors terminated Ken Peterman as President and Chief Executive Officer for cause due to conduct unrelated to Comtechs business strategy, financial results or previously filed financial statements. Upon termination of his employment, Mr. Peterman was deemed to have resigned from his position as Chairman of the Board of Directors and as a director pursuant to his employment contract. John Ratigan, who is our Chief Corporate Development Officer, will also serve as interim Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. Mark Quinlan, a director, was elected as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Index 42 Balance Sheet In addition to optimizing our cost structure, securing key contract wins and expanding our pipeline of opportunities, we have also been busy addressing strategic questions about the composition of our business and the strength of our balance sheet. Following a careful review of our current business and product lines, we saw an opportunity to divest our solid-state RF microwave high power amplifiers and control components product line (the "PST Divestiture"). We completed the PST Divestiture on November 7, 2023 and applied 50%, or $16.2 million, of the closing net cash proceeds from the PST Divestiture to repay a portion of the Term Loan outstanding under our Credit Facility. On January 22, 2024, we received $43.2 million of net cash proceeds from the issuance of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock in exchange for previously outstanding Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock. During the three months ended January 31, 2024, we used the majority of the Series B net cash proceeds to repay debt outstanding under our Credit Facility and to significantly reduce accounts payable. We also continue to address the need to refinance our Credit Facility, which expires in October 2024. In connection with the refinancing, we are in discussions with various potential sources of capital regarding debt capital alternatives. Business Outlook As we progress through fiscal 2024, we continue to implement many important lean initiatives and process improvement activities anticipated to drive sustainable, profitable growth in our business. Several of these actions have already contributed to our improved financial performance, affording us the opportunity to report our third consecutive fiscal quarter of positive GAAP operating income since fiscal 2021. As we enter the third quarter of fiscal 2024, business conditions continue to be challenging, and the operating environment is largely unpredictable, including factors such as inflation, rising interest rates, continuing resolutions associated with the U.S. Federal budget, repercussions of military conflicts in Russia and Ukraine and the Middle East, and a potential global recession. Order and production delays, disruptions in component availability, increased pricing both for labor and parts, lower levels of factory utilization and higher logistics and operational costs have or could impact our business. Nevertheless, despite these business conditions and resulting challenges and although we anticipate some variability from time to time as we move through our One Comtech transformational change, subject to the risks highlighted in this Form 10-Q and other filings with the SEC, we are targeting net sales and Adjusted EBITDA for fiscal year 2024 to be better than fiscal 2023. We base our enthusiasm about our future, in part, on our people as well as our recent large strategic contract wins, that serve to validate and reinforce our technology leadership positions in multiple growing end markets. Taken together, we believe these significant, strategic contracts along with our recent acquisitions of talent demonstrate our ability to outperform in every facet of our business. We do not provide forward-looking guidance on a GAAP basis because we are unable to predict certain items contained in the GAAP measure without unreasonable efforts. Because our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each segment as well as unallocated spending, it is inherently difficult to forecast. Please refer to the discussion below under "Adjusted EBITDA" for more information. Additional information related to our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2024 and a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA is included in the below section Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 and Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended January 31, 2024 and 2023. COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2024 AND 2023 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $134.2 million and $133.7 million for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing an increase of $0.5 million, or 0.4%. The period-over-period increase in net sales primarily reflects higher net sales in our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment, offset in part by lower net sales in our Satellite and Space Communications segment, as further discussed below. Although higher than last year, net sales during our second quarter of fiscal 2024, primarily in our Satellite and Space Communications segment, reflect delays in the timing of our receipt of and performance on orders, principally a result of the challenging business conditions giving rise to our going concern disclosures in early December 2023, which we believe temporarily slowed down our receipt of orders from customers, as well as components from suppliers. While we have worked to resolve such conditions, for example, by substantially reducing the level of accounts payables around quarter end, such challenging business conditions during December 2023 and January 2024 resulted in our performance on orders shifting to the third quarter (and in some cases fourth quarter) of fiscal 2024. Also, net sales in our Satellite and Space Communications segment for the second quarter of fiscal 2024 reflect the PST Divestiture. Index 43 Satellite and Space Communications Net sales in our Satellite and Space Communications segment were $78.6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to $80.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2023, a decrease of $1.8 million. Related segment net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2024 primarily reflect higher net sales of our troposcatter and SATCOM solutions to U.S. government end customers (including progress toward delivering next-generation troposcatter terminals to both the U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Army), more than offset by lower net sales resulting from the PST Divestiture on November 7, 2023 and of satellite ground station solutions (including our X/Y steerable antennas). Our Satellite and Space Communications segment represented 58.6% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to 60.1% for the three months ended January 31, 2023. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) in this segment for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was 0.86x. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Satellite and Space Communications segment can fluctuate substantially from period-to- period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our U.S. and international government customers. Period-to-period fluctuations in bookings are normal for this segment. As such, period-to- period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Terrestrial and Wireless Networks Net sales in our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment were $55.6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2024, as compared to $53.3 million for the three months ended January 31, 2023, an increase of $2.3 million, or 4.3%. Related segment net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2024 primarily reflect higher net sales of our NG-911 and call handling services, offset in part by lower net sales of our location-based solutions. Our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment represented 41.4% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to 39.9% for the three months ended January 31, 2023. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) in this segment for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was 1.33x. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment and timing of our receipt of large, multi-year NG-911 contracts. Period-to-period fluctuations in bookings are normal for this segment. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Geography and Customer Type Sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of related sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 are as follows: Three months ended January 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 Satellite and Space Communications Terrestrial and Wireless Networks Consolidated U.S. government 53.1 % 48.4 % 1.0 % 1.8 % 31.5 % 29.8 % Domestic 11.2 % 18.0 % 87.8 % 90.0 % 42.9 % 46.7 % Total U.S. 64.3 % 66.4 % 88.8 % 91.8 % 74.4 % 76.5 % International 35.7 % 33.6 % 11.2 % 8.2 % 25.6 % 23.5 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. For the three months ended January 31, 2024, except for the U.S. government, there were no customers that represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales. Included in domestic sales are sales to Verizon, which accounted for 11.3% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2023. International sales for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $34.3 million and $31.4 million, respectively. Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023. Index 44 Gross Profit. Gross profit was $43.2 million and $45.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was 32.2% as compared to 34.3% for the three months ended January 31, 2023. Our gross profit (both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales) reflects overall product mix changes (including the impact of the PST Divestiture) and lower net sales in our Satellite and Space Communications segment's satellite ground stations product line (including X/Y steerable antennas), as discussed above. Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below. Our Satellite and Space Communications segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2024 decreased in comparison to the three months ended January 31, 2023. The gross profit percentage in the most recent three-month period reflects changes in products and services mix and lower sales volume in our satellite ground stations product line (including X/Y steerable antennas), as discussed above. Our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2024 decreased in comparison to the three months ended January 31, 2023. The gross profit percentage in the most recent three-month period reflects changes in products and services mix, as discussed above. Included in consolidated cost of sales for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $1.4 million and $0.4 million, respectively. As discussed in "Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory," we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage trends. Our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each segment, and therefore is inherently difficult to forecast. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $30.3 million and $28.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 22.6% and 21.6% for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. During the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, we incurred $2.7 million and $1.5 million, respectively, of restructuring costs primarily to streamline our operations and improve efficiency (including severance and costs related to the relocation of certain of our satellite ground station production facilities to our 146,000 square foot facility in Chandler, Arizona), as well as to complete the PST Divestiture. Excluding restructuring costs, selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 would have been comparable at $27.6 million, or 20.5%, and $27.4 million, or 20.5%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $2.0 million in the three months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to $1.0 million in the three months ended January 31, 2023. Amortization of stock-based compensation is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $6.8 million and $12.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 5.1% and 9.3% for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. For the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, research and development expenses of $4.2 million and $5.6 million, respectively, related to our Satellite and Space Communications segment, and $2.5 million and $6.7 million, respectively, related to our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million in both the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense. Lower research and development expenses were driven by our One Comtech initiative and prioritization of resources across various programs. During the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, we incurred $1.0 million and $0.7 million, respectively, of strategic emerging technology costs in our Satellite and Space Communications segment for next-generation satellite technology to advance our solutions offerings to be used with new broadband satellite constellations. We are evaluating this new market in relation to our long-term business strategies, and we may incur additional costs in the future. Index 45 Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, customers reimbursed us $2.5 million and $3.4 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives for both the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 was $5.3 million (of which $1.7 million was for the Satellite and Space Communications segment and $3.6 million was for the Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment). Gain on Business Divestiture, Net. On November 7, 2023, we completed the PST Divestiture and recorded an estimated gain of $2.2 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2024. There was no similar gain in the corresponding period of the prior year. Operating Income (Loss). Operating income (loss) for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 was $3.0 million and $(0.8) million, respectively. Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is shown in the table below: Three months ended January 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 ($ in millions) Satellite and Space Communications Terrestrial and Wireless Networks Unallocated Consolidated Operating income (loss) $ 1.9 3.3 8.1 3.3 (7.0) (7.4) $ 3.0 (0.8) Percentage of related net sales 2.4 % 4.1 % 14.6 % 6.2 % NA NA 2.2 % NA Our GAAP operating income of $3.0 million for the three months ended January 31, 2024 reflects: (i) $5.3 million of amortization of intangibles; (ii) $2.7 million of restructuring costs (of which $1.5 million and $1.3 million related to our Satellite and Space Communications and Unallocated segments, respectively); (iii) $2.2 million of amortization of stock-based compensation; (iv) $1.0 million of strategic emerging technology costs; (v) $0.2 million of amortization of cost to fulfill assets, and (vi) a $2.2 million estimated gain on the PST Divestiture reported in our Unallocated segment, as discussed above. Excluding such items, our consolidated operating income for the three months ended January 31, 2024 would have been $12.2 million. Our GAAP operating loss of $0.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2023 reflects: (i) $5.3 million of amortization of intangibles; (ii) $1.5 million of restructuring costs (of which $1.1 million and $0.5 million related to our Satellite and Space Communications and Unallocated segments, respectively); (iii) $1.3 million of amortization of stock-based compensation; (iv) $0.7 million of strategic emerging technology costs; and (v) $0.2 million of amortization of cost to fulfill assets, as discussed above. Excluding such items, our consolidated operating income for the three months ended January 31, 2023 would have been $8.4 million. The increase in operating income, excluding the above items, from $8.4 million to $12.2 million for the most recent period reflects lower research and development expenses in both of our reportable operating segments and the benefit of our One Comtech lean initiatives, offset in part by a lower consolidated gross profit percentage, as discussed above. Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is further discussed below. The decrease in our Satellite and Space Communications segment operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of the related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was driven primarily by a decrease in related segment net sales and gross profit percentage, as discussed above. The increase in our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of the related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2024 was driven primarily by higher related segment net sales, lower research and development costs and our One Comtech lean initiatives, offset in part by a lower gross profit percentage, as discussed above. Excluding the gain on the PST Divestiture and the impact of its respective portion of restructuring charges in each period, Unallocated expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2024 would have been $7.9 million, as compared to $6.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2023. The increase in Unallocated expenses, excluding such items, was primarily due to our One Comtech initiatives. Index 46 Interest Expense and Other. Interest expense was $5.3 million and $3.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The increase is primarily due to a higher average debt balance outstanding during the more recent period, a general rise in interest rates as compared to the prior year period, as well as higher interest rates under our Credit Facility that we entered into in November 2022. Our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in the three months ended January 31, 2024 was approximately 11.3%, as compared to 8.8% in the prior year period. Our current cash borrowing rate (which excludes the amortization of deferred financing costs) under our Credit Facility approximates 9.4%, as compared to 8.4% in the prior year period. Interest (Income) and Other. Interest (income) and other for both the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 was nominal. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding an immaterial interest rate. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes. For the three months ended January 31, 2024, we recorded tax expense of $7.4 million, as compared to a tax benefit of $0.2 million in the three months ended January 31, 2023. Our effective tax rate (excluding discrete tax items) for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 was (52.0)% and 11.0%, respectively. The change in rate from 11% to (52.0)% is primarily due to changes in expected product and geographic mix. For purposes of determining our (52.0)% estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2024, the estimated gain on the PST Divestiture is considered a significant, unusual or infrequently occurring discrete tax item and is excluded from the computation of our effective tax rate. For purposes of determining our 11.0% estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2023, CEO transition costs are considered significant, unusual or infrequently occurring discrete tax items and are excluded from the computation of our effective tax rate. During the three months ended January 31, 2024, we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $0.3 million primarily related to the PST Divestiture. During the three months ended January 31, 2023, we recorded a net discrete tax expense of $0.1 million, primarily related to the settlement of stock-based awards, partially offset by the finalization of certain tax accounts in connection with our fiscal 2022 Canadian income tax returns. Our U.S. federal income tax returns for fiscal 2020 through 2022 are subject to potential future Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2019 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Net Loss Attributable to Common Stockholders. During the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, consolidated net loss attributable to common stockholders was $30.5 million and $6.5 million, respectively. The more recent period included $17.9 million of charges specifically related to the exchange of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock for Series B Convertible Preferred Stock on January 22, 2024 and a $2.2 million estimated gain on the PST Divestiture. Index 47 Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) for both the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 are shown in the table below with a reconciliation to net income (loss) (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): Three months ended January 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 ($ in millions) Satellite and Space Communications Terrestrial and Wireless Networks Unallocated Consolidated Net (loss) income $ (0.5) 3.1 7.6 3.6 (17.7) (11.5) $ (10.6) (4.8) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 0.3 (0.4) 0.7 (0.1) 6.3 0.3 7.4 (0.2) Interest (income) and other 1.1 0.6 (0.2) (0.1) 0.9 0.5 Interest expense 0.9 4.4 3.8 5.3 3.8 Amortization of stock-based compensation 2.2 1.3 2.2 1.3 Amortization of intangibles 1.7 1.8 3.6 3.5 5.3 5.3 Depreciation 0.9 1.0 2.0 1.9 0.1 2.9 3.0 Amortization of cost to fulfill assets 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Restructuring costs 1.5 1.1 1.3 0.5 2.7 1.5 Strategic emerging technology costs 1.0 0.7 1.0 0.7 Gain on business divestiture, net (2.2) (2.2) Adjusted EBITDA $ 7.1 8.2 13.7 8.8 (5.7) (5.7) $ 15.1 11.3 Percentage of related net sales 9.0 % 10.2 % 24.7 % 16.5 % NA NA 11.3 % 8.5 % The increase in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2023 reflects lower research and development expenses in both of our reportable operating segments and the benefit of our One Comtech lean initiatives, offset in part by a lower consolidated gross profit percentage, as discussed above. The decrease in our Satellite and Space Communications segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is primarily due to a decrease in related segment net sales and gross profit percentage, as discussed above. The increase in our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is primarily due to higher related segment net sales, lower research and development expenses and our One Comtech lean initiatives, offset in part by a lower gross profit percentage, as discussed above. Index 48 A reconciliation of our fiscal 2023 GAAP Net Loss to Adjusted EBITDA is shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): ($ in millions) Fiscal Year 2023 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Adjusted EBITDA: Net loss $ (26.9) Benefit from income taxes (3.9) Interest expense 15.0 Interest (income) and other 1.2 Amortization of stock-based compensation 10.1 Amortization of intangibles 21.4 Depreciation 11.9 Amortization of cost to fulfill assets 1.0 Restructuring costs 10.9 Strategic emerging technology costs 3.8 CEO transition costs 9.1 Adjusted EBITDA $ 53.5 Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation expense, amortization of intangibles, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of cost to fulfill assets, restructuring costs, strategic emerging technology costs (for next-generation satellite technology), change in fair value of the Series A convertible preferred stock purchase option liability, write-off of deferred financing costs, acquisition plan expenses, COVID-19 related costs, facility exit costs, CEO transition costs, proxy solicitation costs and strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other. Although closely aligned, our definition of Adjusted EBITDA is different than the Consolidated EBITDA (as such term is defined in our Credit Facility) utilized for financial covenant calculations and also may differ from the definition of EBITDA or Adjusted EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts. We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, including GAAP measures, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies. Our Non- GAAP measures reflect the GAAP measures as reported, adjusted for certain items as described herein and also excludes the effects of our outstanding convertible preferred stock. These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP measures in the tables presented herein, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings. We have not quantitatively reconciled our fiscal 2024 Adjusted EBITDA outlook to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because items such as stock-based compensation, adjustments to the provision for income taxes, amortization of intangibles and interest expense, which are specific items that impact these measures, have not yet occurred, are out of our control, or cannot be predicted. For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable. Accordingly, reconciliations to the Non-GAAP forward looking metrics are not available without unreasonable effort and such unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our financial results. Index 49 Reconciliations of our GAAP consolidated operating income (loss), net loss attributable to common stockholders and net loss per diluted common share for the three months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 to the corresponding Non-GAAP measures are shown in the tables below (numbers and per share amounts in the tables may not foot due to rounding). Non-GAAP net (loss) income attributable to common stockholders and non-GAAP net (loss) income per diluted common share reflect Non- GAAP provisions for income taxes based on year-to-date results, as adjusted for the Non-GAAP reconciling items included in the tables below. We evaluate our Non-GAAP effective income tax rate on an ongoing basis, and it can change from time to time. Our Non-GAAP effective income tax rate can differ materially from our GAAP effective income tax rate. In addition, due to the GAAP net loss for the period, Non-GAAP net income per diluted common share for the three months ended January 31, 2023 was computed using weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 28,361,000 during the period. Three months ended January 31, 2024 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating Income Net Loss Attributable to Common Stockholders Net Loss per Diluted Common Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ 3.0 $ (30.5) $ (1.07) Loss on extinguishment of convertible preferred stock 13.6 0.48 Adjustments to reflect redemption value of convertible preferred stock 6.3 0.22 Amortization of intangibles 5.3 4.1 0.14 Restructuring costs 2.7 2.1 0.07 Amortization of stock-based compensation 2.2 1.7 0.06 Strategic emerging technology costs 1.0 0.8 0.03 Amortization of costs to fulfill assets 0.2 0.2 0.01 Gain on business divestiture, net (2.2) (2.9) (0.10) Net discrete tax expense 0.4 0.01 Non-GAAP measures $ 12.2 $ (4.2) $ (0.15) Three months ended January 31, 2023 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating (Loss) Income Net (Loss) Income Attributable to Common Stockholders Net (Loss) Income per Diluted Common Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ (0.8) $ (6.5) $ (0.23) Adjustments to reflect redemption value of convertible preferred stock 1.7 0.06 Amortization of intangibles 5.3 4.1 0.15 Restructuring costs 1.5 1.2 0.04 Amortization of stock-based compensation 1.3 1.0 0.03 Strategic emerging technology costs 0.7 0.7 0.02 Amortization of costs to fulfill assets 0.2 0.2 0.01 Net discrete tax expense 0.1 Non-GAAP measures $ 8.4 $ 2.5 $ 0.09 Index 50 COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2024 AND 2023 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $286.1 million and $264.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing an increase of $21.2 million, or 8.0%. The period-over-period increase in consolidated net sales primarily reflects significantly higher net sales in our Satellite and Space Communications segment, as further discussed below. Although higher than last year, net sales during our second quarter of fiscal 2024, primarily in our Satellite and Space Communications segment, reflect delays in the timing of our receipt of and performance on orders, principally a result of the challenging business conditions giving rise to our going concern disclosures in early December 2023, which we believe temporarily slowed down our receipt of orders from customers, as well as components from suppliers. While we have worked to resolve such conditions, for example, by substantially reducing the level of accounts payables around quarter end, such challenging business conditions during December 2023 and January 2024 resulted in our performance on orders shifting to the third quarter (and in some cases fourth quarter) of fiscal 2024. Also, net sales in our Satellite and Space Communications segment for the second quarter of fiscal 2024 reflect the PST Divestiture. Satellite and Space Communications Net sales in our Satellite and Space Communications segment were $181.0 million for the six months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to $161.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2023, an increase of $19.7 million or 12.2%. Related segment net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2024 primarily reflect significantly higher net sales of our troposcatter and SATCOM solutions to U.S. government customers (including progress toward delivering next-generation troposcatter terminals to the U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Army). Our Satellite and Space Communications segment represented 63.3% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to 60.9% for the six months ended January 31, 2023. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) in this segment for the six months ended January 31, 2024 was 1.13x. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Satellite and Space Communications segment can fluctuate substantially from period-to- period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our U.S. and international government customers. Period-to-period fluctuations in bookings are normal for this segment. As such, period-to- period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Terrestrial and Wireless Networks Net sales in our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment were $105.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2024, as compared to $103.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2023, an increase of $1.5 million, or 1.4%. Related segment net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2024 primarily reflect higher net sales of our NG-911 and call handling services, offset in part by lower net sales of our location based solutions. Our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment represented 36.7% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to 39.1% for the six months ended January 31, 2023. Our book-to-bill ratio in this segment for the six months ended January 31, 2024 was 1.17x. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment and timing of our receipt of large, multi-year NG-911 contracts. Period-to-period fluctuations in bookings are normal for this segment. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Index 51 Geography and Customer Type Sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of related sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 are as follows: Six months ended January 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 Satellite and Space Communications Terrestrial and Wireless Networks Consolidated U.S. government 52.3 % 49.6 % 1.1 % 1.9 % 33.5 % 30.9 % Domestic 13.7 % 18.4 % 89.4 % 90.8 % 41.5 % 46.7 % Total U.S. 66.0 % 68.0 % 90.5 % 92.7 % 75.0 % 77.6 % International 34.0 % 32.0 % 9.5 % 7.3 % 25.0 % 22.4 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the DoD, intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. For the six months ended January 31, 2024, except for the U.S. government, there were no customers that represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales. For the six months ended January 31, 2023, included in domestic sales are sales to Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon"), which accounted for 11.9% of consolidated net sales. International sales for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $71.5 million and $59.3 million, respectively. Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023. Gross Profit. Gross profit was $91.1 million and $92.7 million for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, a decrease of $1.6 million. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2024 was 31.8% as compared to 35.0% for the six months ended January 31, 2023. Our gross profit (both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales) reflects an increase in net sales and overall product mix changes (including the impact of the PST Divestiture) and lower net sales in our Satellite and Space Communications segment's satellite ground stations product line (including X/Y steerable antennas), as discussed above. Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below. Our Satellite and Space Communications segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2024 decreased in comparison to the six months ended January 31, 2023. The gross profit percentage in the most recent three-month period reflects changes in products and services mix and lower sales volume in our satellite ground stations product line (including X/Y steerable antennas), as discussed above. Our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2024 decreased in comparison to the six months ended January 31, 2023. The gross profit percentage in the most recent three-month period reflects changes in products and services mix, as discussed above. Included in consolidated cost of sales for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $1.5 million and $1.3 million, respectively. As discussed in "Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory," we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage trends. Our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each segment, and therefore is inherently difficult to forecast. Index 52 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $63.0 million and $58.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 22.0% for both the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. During the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, we incurred $6.4 million and $2.9 million of restructuring costs, respectively, primarily to streamline our operations and improve efficiency (including severance and costs related to the relocation of certain of our satellite ground station production facilities to our 146,000 square foot facility in Chandler, Arizona), as well as to complete the PST Divestiture. Excluding restructuring costs, selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 would have been $56.6 million or 19.8% and $55.4 million or 20.9%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. The decrease in our selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is primarily due to higher consolidated net sales during the more recent period, as discussed above. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $4.2 million in the six months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to $1.7 million in the six months ended January 31, 2023. Amortization of stock-based compensation is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $14.7 million and $25.2 million for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing a decrease of $10.5 million or 41.8%. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 5.1% and 9.5% for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. For the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, research and development expenses of $8.9 million and $12.0 million, respectively, related to our Satellite and Space Communications segment and $5.5 million and $13.0 million, respectively, related to our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.3 million and $0.2 million in the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense. Lower research and development expenses were driven by our One Comtech initiative and prioritization of resources across various programs. During the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, we incurred $2.3 million and $1.5 million, respectively, of strategic emerging technology costs in our Satellite and Space Communications segment for next-generation satellite technology to advance our solutions offerings to be used with new broadband satellite constellations. We are evaluating this new market in relation to our long-term business strategies, and we may incur additional costs in the future. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, customers reimbursed us $6.5 million and $5.6 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 was $10.6 million (of which $3.3 million was for the Satellite and Space Communications segment and $7.2 million was for the Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment) and $10.7 million (of which $3.7 million was for the Satellite and Space Communications segment and $7.0 million was for the Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment), respectively. Gain on Business Divestiture, net. On November 7, 2023, we completed the PST Divestiture and recorded an estimated gain of $2.2 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2024. There was no similar gain in the corresponding period of the prior year. CEO Transition Costs. On August 9, 2022, our Board of Directors appointed Ken Peterman as our Chairman of the Board, President and CEO. Transition costs related to our former President and CEO, Mr. Porcelain, pursuant to his separation agreement with the Company, were $7.4 million, of which $3.8 million related to the acceleration of unamortized stock-based compensation, with the remaining $3.6 million related to his severance payments and benefits upon termination of employment. The cash portion of the transition costs of $3.6 million was paid to Mr. Porcelain in October 2022. Also, in connection with Mr. Peterman entering into an employment agreement with the Company, effective as of August 9, 2022, we incurred a $1.0 million expense related to a cash sign-on bonus, which was paid in January 2023. CEO transition costs related to Mr. Porcelain and Mr. Peterman were expensed in our Unallocated segment during the first quarter of fiscal 2023. There were no similar costs incurred through the second quarter of fiscal 2024. Index 53 Operating Income (Loss). Operating income (loss) for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 was $5.1 million and $(10.5) million, respectively. Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is shown in the table below: Six months ended January 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 ($ in millions) Satellite and Space Communications Terrestrial and Wireless Networks Unallocated Consolidated Operating income (loss) $ 12.0 8.3 12.2 4.1 (19.1) (22.9) $ 5.1 (10.5) Percentage of related net sales 6.6 % 5.1 % 11.6 % 4.0 % NA NA 1.8 % NA Our GAAP operating income of $5.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2024 reflects: (i) $10.6 million of amortization of intangibles; (ii) $6.4 million of restructuring costs (of which $2.2 million and $4.2 million related to our Satellite and Space Communications and Unallocated segments, respectively); (iii) $4.8 million of amortization of stock-based compensation; (iv) $2.3 million of strategic emerging technology costs; (v) $0.5 million of amortization of cost to fulfill assets, and (vi) a $2.2 million estimated gain on the PST Divestiture reported in our Unallocated segment, as discussed above. Excluding such items, our consolidated operating income for the six months ended January 31, 2024 would have been $27.5 million, or 9.6% of consolidated net sales. Our GAAP operating loss of $10.5 million for the six months ended January 31, 2023 reflects: (i) $10.7 million of amortization of intangibles; (ii) $9.1 million of CEO transition costs; (iii) $2.9 million of restructuring costs (of which $2.2 million and $0.7 million related to our Satellite and Space Communications and Unallocated segments, respectively); (iv) $2.2 million of amortization of stock-based compensation; (v) $1.5 million of strategic emerging technology costs; and (vi) $0.5 million of amortization of cost to fulfill assets, as discussed above. Excluding such items, our consolidated operating income for the six months ended January 31, 2023 would have been $16.3 million, or 6.1% of consolidated net sales. The increase in operating income, excluding the above items, from $16.3 million to $27.5 million for the most recent period reflects lower research and development expenses in both of our reportable operating segments and the benefit of our One Comtech lean initiatives, as discussed above. Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is further discussed below. The increase in our Satellite and Space Communications segment operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of the related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2024 was driven primarily by an increase in related segment net sales and our One Comtech lean initiatives, offset in part by a lower gross profit percentage, as discussed above. The increase in our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of the related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2024 was driven primarily by lower research and development costs and our One Comtech lean initiatives, as discussed above. Excluding the gain on the PST Divestiture, the impact of CEO transition costs and its respective portion of restructuring charges in each period, Unallocated expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2024 would have been $17.1 million, as compared to $13.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2023. The increase in Unallocated expenses, excluding such items, was primarily due to our One Comtech initiatives. Interest Expense and Other. Interest expense was $10.2 million and $6.0 million for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The increase is due to a higher average debt balance outstanding during the most recent period, a general rise in interest rates as compared to the prior year period, as well as higher interest rates under our Credit Facility that we entered into in November 2022. Our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in the six months ended January 31, 2024 was approximately 10.9%, as compared to 7.4% in the prior year period. Our current cash borrowing rate (which excludes the amortization of deferred financing costs) under our existing Credit Facility approximates 9.4%, as compared to 8.4% in the prior year period. Interest (Income) and Other. Interest (income) and other for both the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 was nominal. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding an immaterial interest rate. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes. For the six months ended January 31, 2024, we recorded tax expense of $6.0 million, as compared to a tax benefit of $0.8 million recorded in the six months ended January 31, 2023. Our effective tax rate (excluding discrete tax items) for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 was (52.0)% and 11.0%, respectively. The change in rate from 11% to negative (52.0)% is primarily due to changes in expected product and geographic mix. Index 54 For purposes of determining our (52.0)% estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2024, the estimated gain on the PST Divestiture is considered a significant, unusual or infrequently occurring discrete tax item and is excluded from the computation of our effective tax rate. For purposes of determining our 11.0% estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2023, CEO transition costs are considered significant, unusual or infrequently occurring discrete tax items and are excluded from the computation of our effective tax rate. During the six months ended January 31, 2024, we recorded a net discrete tax expense of $1.8 million primarily related to the anticipated timing of the settlement of contingent consideration related to our the PST Divestiture. Upon settlement of the contingent consideration, if any, we would expect an offsetting net discrete tax benefit due to the utilization of capital losses that had been previously subject to a full valuation allowance. During the six months ended January 31, 2023, we recorded a nominal, net discrete tax expense primarily related to the settlement of stock-based awards, partially offset by the deductible portion of CEO transition costs. Our U.S. federal income tax returns for fiscal 2020 through 2022 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2019 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Net Loss Attributable to Common Stockholders. During the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, consolidated net loss attributable to common stockholders was $33.8 million and $19.3 million, respectively. The more recent period included $17.9 million of charges specifically related to the exchange of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock for Series B Convertible Preferred Stock on January 22, 2024 and a $2.2 million estimated gain on the PST Divestiture. Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) for both the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 are shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): Six months ended January 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 ($ in millions) Satellite and Space Communications Terrestrial and Wireless Networks Unallocated Consolidated Net income (loss) $ 8.8 8.9 11.7 4.2 (32.6) (29.0) $ (12.0) (15.9) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 0.5 (0.6) 0.4 (0.3) 5.1 0.1 6.0 (0.8) Interest (income) and other 0.8 0.2 0.8 0.2 Interest expense 1.8 8.4 6.0 10.2 6.0 Amortization of stock-based compensation 4.8 2.2 4.8 2.2 Amortization of intangibles 3.3 3.7 7.2 7.0 10.6 10.7 Depreciation 1.8 2.0 3.9 3.7 0.2 0.1 6.0 5.8 Amortization of cost to fulfill assets 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Restructuring costs 2.2 2.2 4.2 0.7 6.4 2.9 Strategic emerging technology costs 2.3 1.5 2.3 1.5 Gain on business divestiture, net (2.2) (2.2) CEO transition costs 9.1 9.1 Adjusted EBITDA $ 22.2 18.1 23.4 14.8 (12.1) (10.8) $ 33.5 22.1 Percentage of related net sales 12.3 % 11.2 % 22.2 % 14.3 % NA NA 11.7 % 8.3 % The increase in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to the six months ended January 31, 2023 reflects lower research and development expense in both of our reportable operating segments and the benefit of our One Comtech lean initiatives, as discussed above. The increase in our Satellite and Space Communications segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is primarily due to an increase in related segment net sales, lower research and development expenses and One Comtech lean initiatives, offset in part by a lower gross profit percentage, as discussed above. Index 55 The increase in our Terrestrial and Wireless Networks segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is primarily due to lower research and development expenses and One Comtech lean initiatives, as discussed above. A reconciliation of our fiscal 2023 GAAP Net Loss to Adjusted EBITDA is shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): ($ in millions) Fiscal Year 2023 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Adjusted EBITDA: Net loss $ (26.9) Benefit from income taxes (3.9) Interest expense 15.0 Interest (income) and other 1.2 Amortization of stock-based compensation 10.1 Amortization of intangibles 21.4 Depreciation 11.9 Amortization of cost to fulfill assets 1.0 Restructuring costs 10.9 Strategic emerging technology costs 3.8 CEO transition costs 9.1 Adjusted EBITDA $ 53.5 Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation expense, amortization of intangibles, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of cost to fulfill assets, restructuring costs, strategic emerging technology costs (for next-generation satellite technology), change in fair value of the Series A convertible preferred stock purchase option liability, write-off of deferred financing costs, acquisition plan expenses, COVID-19 related costs, facility exit costs, CEO transition costs, proxy solicitation costs and strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other. Although closely aligned, our definition of Adjusted EBITDA is different than the Consolidated EBITDA (as such term is defined in our Credit Facility) utilized for financial covenant calculations and also may differ from the definition of EBITDA or Adjusted EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts. We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, including GAAP measures, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies. Our Non- GAAP measures reflect the GAAP measures as reported, adjusted for certain items as described herein and also excludes the effects of our outstanding convertible preferred stock. These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP measures in the tables presented herein, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings. We have not quantitatively reconciled our fiscal 2024 Adjusted EBITDA outlook to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because items such as stock-based compensation, adjustments to the provision for income taxes, amortization of intangibles and interest expense, which are specific items that impact these measures, have not yet occurred, are out of our control, or cannot be predicted. For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable. Accordingly, reconciliations to the Non-GAAP forward looking metrics are not available without unreasonable effort and such unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our financial results. Index 56 Reconciliations of our GAAP consolidated operating income (loss), net loss attributable to common stockholders and net loss per diluted common share for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 to the corresponding Non-GAAP measures are shown in the tables below (numbers and per share amounts in the tables may not foot due to rounding). Non-GAAP net income attributable to common stockholders and non-GAAP net income per diluted common share reflect Non-GAAP provisions for income taxes based on year-to-date results, as adjusted for the Non-GAAP reconciling items included in the tables below. We evaluate our Non-GAAP effective income tax rate on an ongoing basis, and it can change from time to time. Our Non-GAAP effective income tax rate can differ materially from our GAAP effective income tax rate. In addition, due to the GAAP net loss for the period, Non-GAAP net income per diluted common share for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023 was computed using weighted average diluted shares outstanding of 28,958,000 and 28,262,000, respectively, during the period. Six months ended January 31, 2024 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating Income Net (Loss) Income Attributable to Common Stockholders Net (Loss) Income per Diluted Common Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ 5.1 $ (33.8) $ (1.18) Loss on extinguishment of convertible preferred stock 13.6 0.48 Adjustments to reflect redemption value of convertible preferred stock 8.2 0.29 Amortization of intangibles 10.6 8.2 0.28 Restructuring costs 6.4 5.0 0.17 Amortization of stock-based compensation 4.8 3.8 0.13 Strategic emerging technology costs 2.3 1.8 0.06 Amortization of cost to fulfill assets 0.5 0.5 0.02 Gain on business divestiture, net (2.2) (1.4) (0.05) Net discrete tax expense 1.0 0.03 Non-GAAP measures $ 27.5 $ 6.7 $ 0.23 Six months ended January 31, 2023 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating (Loss) Income Net (Loss) Income Attributable to Common Stockholders Net (Loss) Income per Diluted Common Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ (10.5) $ (19.3) $ (0.69) Adjustment to reflect redemption value of convertible preferred stock 3.4 0.12 Amortization of intangibles 10.7 8.3 0.30 CEO transition costs 9.1 8.6 0.31 Restructuring costs 2.9 2.2 0.08 Amortization of stock-based compensation 2.2 1.7 0.06 Strategic emerging technology costs 1.5 1.3 0.05 Amortization of cost to fulfill assets 0.5 0.5 0.02 Net discrete tax expense 0.5 0.02 Non-GAAP measures $ 16.3 $ 7.1 $ 0.25 Index 57 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our cash and cash equivalents were $40.0 million and $19.0 million at January 31, 2024 and July 31, 2023, respectively. For the six months ended January 31, 2024, our cash flows reflect the following: Net cash used in operating activities was $41.2 million for the six months ended January 31, 2024 as compared to net cash used in operating activities of $16.8 million for the six months ended January 31, 2023. The period-over-period decrease in cash flow from operating activities reflects overall changes in net working capital requirements, principally the timing of shipments and progress toward completion on contracts accounted for over time, and related billings and payments. Operating cash flows for the more recent period also reflect our planned use of a substantial portion of the net cash proceeds from the issuance of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock to significantly reduce accounts payable. Net cash provided by investing activities for the six months ended January 31, 2024 was $24.9 million, compared to net cash used by investing activities of $9.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2023. The more recent period includes $32.5 million of net cash proceeds from the PST Divestiture, offset in part by capital expenditures to build- out cloud-based computer networks to support our previously announced NG-911 contract wins and capital investments and building improvements in connection with our manufacturing facilities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $37.3 million and $26.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. During the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, we had net borrowings under our Credit Facility of $3.9 million and $38.4 million, respectively. Financing cash flow activities for the more recent period reflect the receipt of net cash proceeds from the issuance of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and use of a substantial portion of the net cash proceeds from the PST Divestiture to repay a portion of the Term Loan outstanding under the Credit Facility. During the six months ended January 31, 2023, we paid $5.9 million in cash dividends to our common stockholders. Payment of cash dividends in the more recent period represents the settlement of previously issued dividend equivalents related to stock based awards. We also made $3.8 million and $2.5 million of payments to remit employees' statutory tax withholding requirements related to the net settlement of stock-based awards during the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The Credit Facility is discussed below and in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (10) Credit Facility." The Series B Convertible Preferred Stock is discussed below and in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (17) Convertible Preferred Stock." Our material cash requirements are for working capital, debt service (including interest), capital expenditures, income tax payments, facilities lease payments and dividends related to our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, which are payable in kind or in cash at our election. Our material cash requirements could increase beyond our current expectations due to factors such as general economic conditions, a change in government spending priorities, larger than usual customer orders or a future redemption by the holders of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. Also, in light of our initiatives to grow the Company, we continue to review and evaluate our capital allocation plans. Furthermore, we may choose to raise additional funds through equity and debt financing transactions to provide additional flexibility or to pursue acquisitions. Although it is difficult in the current economic and credit environment to predict the terms and conditions of financing that may be available in the future, we believe that we would have sufficient access to credit from financial institutions and/or financing from public and private debt and equity markets. We have historically met our cash requirements with funds provided by a combination of cash and cash equivalent balances, cash generated from operating activities and cash generated from equity and debt financing transactions. As discussed in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (1) General," as of the date these financial statements were issued (the "issuance date"), we evaluated whether the following conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern over the next twelve months beyond the issuance date. Index 58 Over the past three fiscal years, we incurred operating losses of $14.7 million, $33.8 million, and $68.3 million in fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. More recently, we recognized operating income of $3.0 million and $5.1 million in the three and six months ended January 31, 2024, respectively, including a $2.2 million estimated gain on business divestiture, net. See Note (2) Business Divestiture for further information. In addition, over the past three fiscal years, net cash used in operating activities was $4.4 million and $40.6 million in fiscal 2023 and 2021, respectively, and net cash provided by operating activities was $2.0 million in fiscal 2022. More recently, net cash used in operating activities was $41.2 million in the six months ended January 31, 2024. Such amount in the more recent period reflects the use of a substantial portion of the net cash proceeds from the $45.0 million issuance of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock on January 22, 2024 to significantly reduce the level of our outstanding accounts payable as of January 31, 2024. See Note (17) Convertible Preferred Stock for further information. As of the issuance date, our available sources of liquidity included cash and cash equivalents of approximately $20.1 million. In addition, as of the issuance date, borrowings under our Credit Facility, which has a maturity date of October 31, 2024, aggregated $166.2 million, of which $136.8 million and $29.4 million related to the Revolving Loan Facility and Term Loan, respectively. As of the issuance date, there was approximately $2.7 million of additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Loan Facility. Our ability to meet our current obligations as they come due may be impacted by our ability to remain compliant with the financial covenants under our Credit Facility or to obtain waivers or amendments that impact the related financial covenants. If we are unable to satisfy certain covenants and not able to obtain waivers or amendments, such event would constitute an Event of Default and could cause an immediate acceleration and repayment of all outstanding principal, interest and fees due under our Credit Facility. If there is an Event of Default, there can be no assurances that we will be able to continue as a going concern, which could force us to delay, reduce or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy. Additionally, our ability to meet future anticipated liquidity needs will largely depend on our ability to generate positive cash inflows from operations and/or secure other sources of outside capital. As it relates to sources of outside capital, the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock issued on January 22, 2024 allow us to raise up to $50.0 million of shares of common stock without the consent of the holders of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. Based on our current business plans, including projected capital expenditures, we do not believe our current level of cash and cash equivalents, or liquidity expected to be generated from future cash flows will be sufficient to fund our operations over the next twelve months beyond the issuance date and repay the outstanding borrowings scheduled to mature under the Credit Facility on or before October 31, 2024. In anticipation of this maturity, we engaged with third party financial advisors to assist us in our discussions and negotiations with our existing lenders and holders of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock to extend or refinance the Credit Facility and/or amend or restructure the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, as well as seeking other sources of credit or outside capital. If we are unable to obtain sufficient, timely financial resources or outside capital, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to generate cash in the future or have sufficient access to credit from financial institutions and/or financing from public and/or private debt and equity markets on acceptable terms, or at all, (i) is subject to (a) general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control and (b) under certain circumstances, a majority vote consent right of the holders of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (as discussed further in Note (17) "Convertible Preferred Stock"), and (ii) could (x) dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders, (y) include terms that adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders, or (z) restrict our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making acquisitions or capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Also, our transition to sustained profitability is dependent upon the successful completion of our ongoing One Comtech transformation and integration of individual businesses into two segments and related restructuring activities to optimize our cost structure and reduce investments in working capital and/or capital expenditures. In addition to our plan to refinance the Credit Facility and/or secure new sources of credit or outside capital, our plans also include, among other things: implementing certain cost savings and restructuring activities to reduce cash used in operations, as discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (20) Cost Reduction; pursuing initiatives to reduce investments in working capital, namely accounts receivable and inventory; improving process disciplines to attain and maintain profitable operations by entering into more favorable sales or service contracts; reevaluating our business plans to identify opportunities to further reduce capital expenditures; Index 59 seeking opportunities to improve liquidity through any combination of debt and/or equity financing (including possibly restructuring our existing Series B Convertible Preferred Stock); and seeking other strategic transactions and/or measures including, but not limited to, the potential sale or divestiture of assets. While we believe the implementation of some or all of the elements of our plans over the next twelve months beyond the issuance date will be successful, these plans are not all solely within managements control and, as such, we can provide no assurance our plans are probable of being effectively implemented as of the issuance date. Therefore, these adverse conditions and events described above raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as of the issuance date. We prepared these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements on a going concern basis, assuming our financial resources will be sufficient to meet our capital needs over the next twelve months and did not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and realization of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in operation for the next twelve months. In addition to making capital investments for our new high-volume manufacturing centers, we have been making significant capital expenditures and building out cloud-based computer networks to support our previously announced NG-911 contract wins for the states of Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Arizona. We expect capital investments for these and other initiatives to continue in fiscal 2024. Our investment policy relating to our cash and cash equivalents is intended to minimize principal loss while at the same time maximize the income we receive without significantly increasing risk. To minimize risk, we generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in money market mutual funds (both government and commercial), certificates of deposit, bank deposits and U.S. Treasury securities. Many of our money market mutual funds invest in direct obligations of the U.S. government, bank securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, certificates of deposit and commercial paper and other securities issued by other companies. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we believe our investment policies are appropriate in the current environment. Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market. On July 13, 2022, we filed a $200.0 million shelf registration statement with the SEC for the sale of various types of securities, including debt securities. This shelf registration statement was declared effective by the SEC as of July 25, 2022 and expires on July 25, 2025. On September 29, 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a $100.0 million stock repurchase program, which replaced our prior program. The $100.0 million stock repurchase program has no time restrictions and repurchases may be made from time to time in open-market or privately negotiated transactions, or by other means in accordance with federal securities laws. There were no repurchases of our common stock during the six months ended January 31, 2024 and 2023. During the third quarter of fiscal 2023, the Board, together with management, adjusted the Companys capital allocation plans and determined to forgo a common stock dividend, thereby increasing our financial flexibility. Future common stock dividends, if any, remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility, as well as Board approval and certain voting rights of holders of our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. Credit Facility See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (10) Credit Facility" for detailed information related to our existing Credit Facility. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Credit Facility, which have been documented and filed with the SEC. During the six months ended January 31, 2024, we had outstanding balances under the Credit Facility ranging from $164.3 million to $196.8 million. As of January 31, 2024, the amount outstanding under our Credit Facility was $168.9 million, comprised of $139.5 million under the Revolving Loan Facility and $29.4 million under the Term Loan. At January 31, 2024, we had $0.5 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts and no outstanding commercial letters of credit. As of the issuance date, there was approximately $2.7 million of borrowing capacity under the Revolving Loan Facility. Also, on April 30, 2024 and July 31, 2024, if still outstanding, the Revolving Loan Facility would further step down to $135.0 million and $130.0 million, respectively. Index 60 As of January 31, 2024, our Secured Leverage Ratio was 3.07x trailing twelve months ("TTM") Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted EBITDA") compared to the maximum allowable Secured Leverage Ratio of 3.5x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. Our Interest Expense Coverage Ratio as of January 31, 2024 was 3.34x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 3.25x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. Our Minimum Liquidity was $39.5 million compared to the Minimum Liquidity requirement of $25.0 million. Our ability to meet our current obligations as they come due may be impacted by our ability to remain compliant with the financial covenants under the Credit Facility or to obtain waivers or amendments that impact the related financial covenants. If we are unable to satisfy certain covenants and not able to obtain waivers or amendments, such event would constitute an Event of Default and could cause an immediate acceleration and repayment of all outstanding principal, interest and fees due under the Credit Facility. If there is an Event of Default, there can be no assurances that we will be able to continue as a going concern, which could force us to delay, reduce or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy. Additionally, our ability to meet future anticipated liquidity needs will largely depend on our ability to generate positive cash inflows from operations, as well as refinance our Credit Facility, and/or secure other sources of outside capital. Based on our current business plans, including projected capital expenditures, we do not believe our current level of cash and cash equivalents or liquidity expected to be generated from future cash flows will be sufficient to fund our operations over the next twelve months and repay current obligations under the Credit Facility. Although we are actively pursuing strategies to mitigate these conditions and events and alleviate such substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, there can be no assurance that our plans will be successful. Convertible Preferred Stock See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (17) Convertible Preferred Stock" for detailed information related to our Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. Commitments In the normal course of business, other than as discussed below, we routinely enter into binding and non-binding purchase obligations primarily covering anticipated purchases of inventory and equipment. We do not expect that these commitments, as of January 31, 2024, will materially adversely affect our liquidity. At January 31, 2024, cash payments due under contractual obligations (including estimated interest expense on our Credit Facility), excluding purchase orders that we entered into in our normal course of business, are as follows: Total Due Within 1 Year Credit Facility - principal payments $ 168,906 168,906 Credit Facility - interest payments 13,009 13,009 Operating lease obligations 46,563 6,516 Contractual cash obligations $ 228,478 188,431 The commitments under our Credit Facility are described in detail above. As discussed in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (17) Convertible Preferred Stock," the holders of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock have the option to redeem such shares for cash commencing in October 2028. As the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock are not mandatorily redeemable for cash, the redemption value of such shares are not presented in the table above. In the ordinary course of business, we include indemnification provisions in certain of our customer contracts. Pursuant to these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify, hold harmless and reimburse the indemnified party for certain losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, including but not limited to losses related to third-party intellectual property claims. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these agreements due to a history of nominal claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (19) Legal Proceedings and Other Matters," we are subject to certain pending and threatened legal actions and a number of indemnification demands and we are incurring ongoing legal expenses in connection with these matters. Our insurance policies may not cover the cost of defending and or resolving such matters. As a result, pending or future claims asserted against us by a party could result in legal costs and damages that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Index 61 We entered into employment and/or change of control agreements with certain of our executive officers and certain key employees. All of these agreements may require payments by us, in certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in control of the Company or termination of the employee. Our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 31, 2024 includes total liabilities of $9.1 million for uncertain tax positions, including interest, any or all of which may result in a cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of any potential cash settlement with the taxing authorities. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS We are required to prepare our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") which is the source for all authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which is commonly referred to as "GAAP." The FASB ASC is subject to updates by the FASB, which are known as Accounting Standards Updates ("ASUs"). During the six months ended January 31, 2024, FASB ASU No. 2023-07, Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures and FASB ASU 2023-09, Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures, were issued and incorporated into the FASB ASC and have not yet been adopted by us as of January 31, 2024. See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (3) Adoption of Accounting Standards and Updates," for further information.