Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impact of COVID-19 and Business Outlook for Fiscal 2021. " For a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA, see Part II - " Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of Fiscal 2020 and 2019 - Adjusted EBITDA. " Our Internet website is www.comtechtel.com and we make available on our website: our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including annual reports, quarterly reports, current reports and any amendments to those filings. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained therein into this Form 10-K. We also use our website to disseminate other material information to our investors (on the Home Page and in the "Investor Relations" section). Among other things, we post on our website our press releases and information about our public conference calls (including the scheduled dates, times and the methods by which investors and others can listen to those calls), and we make available for replay webcasts of those calls and other presentations for a limited time. We also use social media channels to communicate with customers and the public about our Company, our products, services and other issues, and we use social media and the Internet to communicate with investors, including information about our stockholder meetings. Information and updates about our Annual Meetings will continue to be posted on our website at www.comtechtel.com in the "Investor Relations" section. We are incorporated in the state of Delaware and were founded in 1967. Corporate Strategies We intend to manage our business with the following principal corporate strategies: Seek leadership positions in markets where we can provide differentiated products and technology solutions; Identify and participate in emerging technologies that enhance or expand our product portfolio; Maximize responsiveness to our customers, including offering more integrated systems and solutions; Expand and further penetrate our diversified and balanced customer base; and Pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies. Competitive Strengths The successful execution of our principal corporate strategies is based on our competitive strengths, including the following: (1) We Have Significant Exposure to Large, Growing End Markets We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on some of the most significant long-term technology trends occurring worldwide and that customers around the world will increasingly turn to us to fulfill their needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical scenarios where performance is crucial. These important technology trends include growth in global wireless penetration and consumption, the need for public safety agencies to seamlessly integrate various networks and protocols and utilize precise location to connect individuals with first responders, the rapidly expanding breadth of High Definition ("HD") and 4K broadcasting content and the need for governments to have more modern and mobile communications and transmission equipment to successfully complete mission-critical goals. We believe that all these long-term trends generate growth in global voice, video and data usage that, in turn, drives increased long-term demand for the secure wireless communication solutions that we provide. 2 (2) We Believe We Are a Market Leader in the End-Markets That We Serve Commercial Solutions Segment Satellite Ground Station Technologies - We believe we are the leading provider of Single Channel per Carrier ("SCPC") satellite earth station modems, solid-state amplifiers and traveling wave tube amplifiers. Many of our key satellite earth station modems incorporate Turbo Product Code ("TPC") forward error correction technology and bandwidth compression technology which enables our customers to optimize their satellite networks by either reducing their satellite transponder lease costs or increasing data throughput. Our amplifier products are used to amplify signals carrying voice, video or data for air-to-satellite-to-ground communications and are vital to satellite communication applications such as traditional broadcast, direct-to-home ("DTH") broadcast and satellite newsgathering. We differentiate our amplifier product offerings by our ability to develop the most efficient size, weight and power profile. Certain of our amplifiers are DO-160 (an airborne quality standard) certified and when incorporated into an aircraft satellite communication system, can provide passengers, both commercial and military, with email, Internet access and video conferencing. Public Safety and Location Technologies - We believe that we are a leader in public safety communication and location technologies used for routing 911 calls. We meet the ISO 27001 data security standard and believe we have significant market share in the routing of U.S. wireless 911 calls, Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") 911 calls and Text to 911 messaging. We believe we are one of a limited number of companies fulfilling the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") requirements for Enhanced 911 ("E911") call-routing to Public Safety Answering Points ("PSAPs") for wireless and VoIP network operators. E911 refers to 911 calls for both wireline and wireless telephones that are enhanced to provide the caller's location information. We are focusing our marketing and research and development efforts to meet system standards for next generation 911 ("NG-911"), which refers to an Internet Protocol ("IP") based system that allows digital information (e.g., voice, photos, videos, text messages) to flow seamlessly from the public, to the PSAPs and on to emergency responders. Our Short-Messaging Service ("SMS") Center software has been used by Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) to enable the exchange of text or data messages to and from wireless devices for almost two decades across 2G, 3G and 4G networks. Our flexible and modular platforms enable the MNOs with a wide range of positioning technologies based on Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) standards. Additionally, we offer Location Studio TM , a complete end-to-end location services platform consisting of maps, geoservices, application programming interfaces ("APIs") and software development kits ("SDKs") enabling MNOs, application developers, public safety customers, and enterprises to build custom and unique applications. Government Solutions Segment Mission-Critical Technologies - We are a key supplier to large governments (particularly the U.S. government) and large prime contractors, for mission-critical technologies, primarily tactical satellite-based technology solutions, field support services and satellite component supply chain management. We are a prime contractor under several indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") defense contract vehicles, including the: (i) U.S. Armys Global Tactical Advanced Communications Systems ("GTACS") contract, (ii) U.S. Armys Global Tactical Advanced Communications Systems (GTACS II) contract, (iii) U.S. Navys Seaport Next Generation (SeaPort-Nxg) contract, (iv) Complex Commercial SATCOM Solutions ("CS3") contract; and (v) Communications Electronics Command ("CECOM") Responsive Strategic Sourcing for Services ("RS3") contract with the U.S. Army Contracting Command - Aberdeen Proving Ground (ACC-APG). We provide field support sustainment services, centralized and deployed depot services, and technology insertion services to the U.S. Armys AN/TSC-198 family of communication systems that are commonly referred to as "SNAP" (Secret Internet Protocol Router ("SIPR") and Non-secure Internet Protocol Router ("NIPR") Access Point) Very Small Aperture Terminals ("VSATs"). We also provide sustainment services for the U.S. Armys Blue Force Tracking-1 ("BFT-1") system. Our field support services include providing U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD") personnel with curriculum development and training services to support cybersecurity workforce development. We provide high reliability Electrical, Electronic and Electromechanical (EEE) parts for use in satellite, launch vehicle and manned space applications. We also provide services encompassing all aspects of ground station life cycle to include requirements definition and analysis; design, development and integration of turnkey systems from antenna to data processing; civil works and construction; station installation and verification; operations and maintenance; and decommissioning at end of life. We also provide to customers worldwide a full line of X/Y satellite tracking antenna systems ranging in sizes from 30cm to 13m, as well as radomes, ideal for LEO, MEO and GEO constellations. High-Performance Transmission Technologies - We are a world leader in the design and supply of troposcatter equipment, and a key supplier of radio frequency ("RF") solid-state, high-power amplifier and switching technologies. We have designed, manufactured and delivered troposcatter systems (sometimes referred to as over-the-horizon ("OTH") microwave products and systems) for over fifty years and are one of the largest independent suppliers of solid-state, high-power microwave amplifiers, which reproduce signals with high power and are extremely complex and critical to the performance of the systems into which they are incorporated. 3 Our CS67PLUS software defined, adaptive troposcatter radio can operate at over 200 megabits per second ("Mbps"). The radio is MIL-STD 461 EMI and MIL-STD 810G environmentally compliant. Our Modular Tactical Transmission System ("MTTS") provides a high capacity, troposcatter and beyond-line-of-sight modular communications system designed for easy and rapid deployment. Our best-in-class troposcatter solutions led to our equipment being chosen to be used on the U.S. Marine Corps next generation troposcatter system Program of Record. These dual frequency systems are designed to operate in harsh environmental conditions and are protected from Electromagnetic Interference and Electromagnetic Pulse (EMI/EMP). Many solid-state power amplifier and switching technologies are produced in-house by large companies; however, our expertise has created a cost-effective and technologically superior alternative to in-house sourcing. Some of the companies who have outsourced amplifier development and production to us include Rockwell Collins, Inc., European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company ("EADS"), Lockheed Martin Corporation, L3Harris Technologies, Inc., Northrop Grumman Corporation, BAE Systems Plc and Raytheon Technologies Corporation. Our amplifiers are also used in oncology treatment systems that allow physicians to give cancer patients higher doses of radiation that are more closely focused on cancerous tissue, thereby minimizing damage to healthy tissue. (3) We Believe We Provide Industry Leading Innovation, Capabilities and Solutions We have established a leading position of technology innovation in our fields through internal and customer-funded research and development activities, which have yielded significant advances. Examples of our industry-leading innovation include: Our Heights TM Networking Platform Our Heights TM networking platform ("Heights") is a cornerstone of our current research and development efforts and a continuing focus of our satellite earth station equipment sales and marketing efforts. Heights TM is an advanced networking platform that combines our most efficient waveforms, compression engines and the ability to provide dynamic bandwidth and power management to meet the demands of customers operating on traditional fixed satellite service systems ("FSS") while providing advantages for customers who plan to transition to high throughput satellite ("HTS") systems in the future. Heights TM is ideally suited for cellular backhaul, universal service obligation networks and other applications that require high performance in a hub-spoke environment. Heights TM solutions are designed to deliver the highest Internet Protocol bits per Hertz in its class. Our Solacom Software Solutions In fiscal 2019, we acquired Solacom Technologies, Inc. (Solacom), a leading provider of NG-911 solutions for public safety agencies. Solacom has developed a best-in-class call handling solution marketed under the Guardian brand name which provides an integrated text-to-and-from 911 solution on a unified platform. The solution provides a flexible user interface, adapts to varying customer environments and preferences, provides powerful call conferencing capabilities, enhanced reporting capabilities and offers geospatial 911 location call display directly from a customized map. Because of its advanced features, it allows us to offer an immediate upgrade path to existing and new customers and has expanded our presence in the public safety solutions market. We are investing in product enhancements of the Guardian software including developing a cloud-based version so that we can offer software as a service (SaaS) type solutions to our public safety customers. Our Compact Over-the-horizon Mobile Expeditionary Terminal (COMET) In fiscal 2020, we introduced the Comtech COMET, the worlds smallest OTH microwave troposcatter terminal. COMET, which stands for Compact Over-the-horizon Mobile Expeditionary Terminal, is rapidly deployable, low power and highly portable. Troposcatter technology has long been associated with large antennas and high-power amplifiers that require kilowatts of prime power and large trucks to transport them to the field. The COMET has fundamentally changed this paradigm. The COMET is capable of being transported in a carry case by a single individual and set up in under fifteen minutes. The COMET is ideally suited for situations where high bandwidth backhaul communications are required, extending critical services into areas where there is no communications infrastructure, or the infrastructure has been destroyed. U.S. Special Forces have already begun procuring and deploying the COMET for high reliability, mission essential communications. Our "XyPoint" Mobile Location Platform Our "XyPoint" Mobile Location Platform is a standards-compliant, commercially available system used for the location of mobile devices connected to 2G, 3G, 4G-LTE, 5G NGC and Wi-Fi networks. Our XyPoint platform provides device location for both public safety and commercial applications and enables device positioning for smartphones, tablets and internet of things ("IoT") devices connected to an MNOs 5G cloud network. 4 (4) We Have a Diverse Global Customer Base We have established long-standing relationships with thousands of customers worldwide, including leading system and network suppliers in the global satellite (such as Intelsat S.A. and SES S.A.), mobile cellular (such as Verizon Wireless), defense, broadcast and aerospace industries, as well as the U.S. federal government (such as the U.S. Army and Navy), U.S. state and local governments, and foreign governments. Our global commercial and government customers are increasingly seeking integrated solutions to meet their operational needs. We believe that our customers recognize our ability to develop improved technologies and to meet stringent program requirements. Our ability to solve complex problems is well known and we believe we a have strong relationships with our customers. We hold prime positions on several key contracts and have had a long history of servicing key programs. Business Segments Fundamentally, we offer advanced secure wireless communication technologies with expertise in the satellite communications and cellular markets. We believe these markets are undergoing a period of significant growth and rapid technological change. We manage our business through two reportable operating segments: Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions. Our corporate senior management team supports the business segments by, among other things, actively seeking to exploit potential synergies that exist between the segments, including in areas such as manufacturing, technology, sales, marketing, customer support and finance. The diagram below summarizes our key products, systems and services by our two reportable operating segments: Commercial Solutions Segment Technologies (approximately 57.4% of fiscal 2020 net sales) Government Solutions Segment Technologies (approximately 42.6% of fiscal 2020 net sales) Satellite Ground Station Technologies Public Safety and Location Technologies Mission-Critical Technologies High-Performance Transmission Technologies Satellite ground station technologies such as single channel per carrier modems and Heights TM networking platform that facilitate the transmission of voice, video and data over satellite links Solid-state and traveling wave tube amplifiers used to amplify signals from satellite ground stations Wireless/VolP 911 service for network operators NextGen 911 solutions ESInet (Emergency Services IP Network) Call Handling applications for PSAPs Software and equipment for location-based and messaging services for various applications including public safety services Tactical satellite-based communications, field support and end-to-end integration Satellite-based mobile communications and tracking systems, including high precision full motion fixed and mobile X/Y satellite tracking antennas, RF feeds, reflectors and radomes Procurement and supply chain management of high reliability EEE parts for satellite, launch vehicle and manned space applications Over-the-horizon microwave equipment that can transmit digitized voice, video and data over distances up to 200 miles using the troposphere and diffraction Solid-state, high-power amplifiers designed for radar, electronic warfare, jamming, medical and aviation applications 5 Commercial Solutions Segment Representative Customers Government Solutions Segment Representative Customers Satellite systems integrators, wireless and other communication service providers and broadcasters Domestic and international defense customers, as well as U.S. and foreign governments, prime contractors and system suppliers, such as General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, L3Harris Technologies, Inc., Raytheon Technologies Corporation, SED Systems (a division of Calian Ltd.), and ViaSat Inc. Satellite broadcasters, such as The DIRECTV Group and EchoStar Corporation U.S. state and local governments, such as the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Iowa, Maine, South Carolina, the State of Washington and Tennessee End-customers also include AT&T Inc., BT Group plc., China Mobile Limited, CenturyLink, Inc., Claro Argentina, Comcast Corporation, Intelsat S.A., Speedcast International Limited, Nokia Corporation, QUALCOMM Incorporated, SES S.A., T-Mobile USA, Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. U.S. Army, the U.S. Marine Corps, the U.S. Navy, prime contractors to the U.S. Armed Forces, NATO and foreign governments (i.e., ministries of defense) Domestic and international defense customers, prime contractors and system suppliers such as Lockheed Martin Corporation, L3 Harris Technologies, Inc., Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Technologies Corporation, Rockwell Collins, Inc., SES S.A., and The Boeing Company Medical equipment companies, such as Varian Medical Systems, Inc., and aviation industry system integrators such as Collins Aerospace (a subsidiary of United Technology Corporation) Foreign government customers in the Middle East, Europe, North Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific and related prime contractors and systems integrators Oil companies such as Shell Oil Company and PETRONAS Financial information about our business segments, including net sales, operating income, Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure), total assets, and our operations outside the United States, is provided in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (12) Segment Information" included in "Part II -