ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, information relating to our future performance and financial condition, plans and objectives of our management and our assumptions regarding such future performance, financial condition, and plans and objectives that involve certain significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors not under our control which may cause our actual results, future performance and financial condition, and achievement of our plans and objectives to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: the possibility that the expected synergies from the acquisition of TeleCommunication Systems, Inc. ("TCS") will not be fully realized, or will not be realized within the anticipated time period; the risk that Comtechs and TCSs businesses will not be integrated successfully; the possibility of disruption from the acquisition, making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships or retain key personnel; the nature and timing of receipt of, and our performance on, new or existing orders that can cause significant fluctuations in net sales and operating results; the timing and funding of government contracts; adjustments to gross profits on long-term contracts; risks associated with international sales; rapid technological change; evolving industry standards; new product announcements and enhancements; changing customer demands; changes in prevailing economic and political conditions; changes in the price of oil in global markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with Comtech's and TCS's legacy legal proceedings, customer claims for indemnification, and other similar matters; risks associated with our obligations under our Secured Credit Facility and acquisition debt; risks associated with our large contracts; and other factors described in this and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). OVERVIEW We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide. Our solutions fulfill our customers needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial. Acquisition of TCS On February 23, 2016 (the first month of our third quarter of fiscal 2016), we acquired TCS, a leading provider of commercial solutions (such as public safety systems and enterprise application technologies), and government solutions (such as command and control (also known as Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (C4ISR))) applications. We believe that the acquisition of TCS provides us with a number of key strategic and financial benefits including: The creation of scale and more diversified earnings, reducing volatility associated with challenging international (including emerging markets) business conditions; Entry into commercial markets at growth inflection points, including the public safety market which has a growing need for next generation emergency 911 systems that utilize messaging and trusted location technologies; An enhanced position with existing customers, including the U.S. government, for which Comtech will now be a prime contractor, including for sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems (troposcatter) products; and The ability to obtain meaningful cost synergies and better growth prospects. The TCS acquisition has a preliminary aggregate purchase price for accounting purposes of approximately $340.4 million (also referred to as the "transaction equity value"). As of February 23, 2016 , the date we closed the acquisition, TCS had $59.9 million of cash and cash equivalents and total debt (including capital lease obligations and accrued interest) of approximately $143.1 million. As such, the transaction had an enterprise value of approximately $423.6 million . During the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, based on audited financial results, TCS generated net sales of approximately $364.4 million. 31 Index The TCS acquisition was a significant step in our strategy of entering complementary markets and expanding our domestic and international commercial offerings. In connection with the acquisition, we began managing our combined businesses through two reportable operating segments: Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller governments, such as state and local governments, that require advanced technologies to meet their needs. This segment also serves certain government customers (including the U.S. government) when they have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment. We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and travel wave tube amplifiers), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as a messaging and trusted location-based technologies). Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission-critical technologies and systems. We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (both satellite and terrestrial links), ongoing network operation and management support services including telecom expense management, project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid-state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (or commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices). From an operational and financial reporting perspective, TCSs former Platforms and Application Group and its Safety and Security Group have become part of our Commercial Solutions segment which includes Comtechs legacy satellite earth station product lines and Comtechs traveling wave tube amplifier product lines. TCSs former Government Solutions Group and Cyber Intelligence Group have become part of our Government Solutions segment which includes Comtechs legacy over-the-horizon microwave (troposcatter) systems product line, Comtechs legacy high-power broadband amplifiers and Comtechs legacy mobile data communications product lines. Additionally, although the TCS business previously operated on a calendar year basis, TCS has now conformed its financial reporting cycle to align with Comtechs fiscal year which ends on July 31st. Upon closing the acquisition of TCS on February 23, 2016, we immediately implemented our acquisition integration plan which includes fully integrating TCS into our business model to achieve cost synergies. These synergies are expected to be achieved by reductions in duplicate public company costs, reduced spending on maintaining multiple information technology systems and obtaining increased operating efficiencies throughout the combined company. To-date, we have made significant reductions in spending, have reduced combined headcount by approximately 5.0% and are on track to deliver meaningful cost synergies. We expect cost synergies to approximate an annual run-rate of $8.0 million over the next several quarters, with $12.0 million of synergies, in the aggregate, expected in the second year after completing the acquisition. Our Quarterly Financial Information Quarterly and period-to-period sales and operating results may be significantly affected by either short-term or long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, our gross profit is affected by a variety of factors, including the mix of products, systems and services sold, production efficiencies, estimates of warranty expense, price competition and general economic conditions. Our gross profit may also be affected by the impact of any cumulative adjustments to contracts that are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method. Our contracts with the U.S. government can be terminated for convenience by the U.S. government at any time and orders are subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. Some of these contracts are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (commonly known as "IDIQ") contracts and, as such, the U.S. government is not obligated to purchase any equipment or services under these contracts. We have, in the past, experienced and we continue to expect significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period. As such, comparisons between periods and our current results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. 32 Index As further discussed below, under Critical Accounting Policies, revenue is generally recognized when the earnings process is complete, upon delivery or customer acceptance. Revenue from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyers specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts are generally recognized in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts (ASC 605-35). Revenue from contracts that contain multiple elements that are not accounted for under FASB ASC 605-35 is generally accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC 605-25, Revenue Recognition - Multiple Element Arrangements, which, among other things, requires revenue associated with multiple element arrangements to be allocated to each element based on the relative selling price method. Additional information about our business, the TCS acquisition and quarterly financial information is included in the below sections entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016, Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 and April 30, 2015 and Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Nine Months Ended April 30, 2016 and April 30, 2015 . CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each. Revenue Recognition. We earn revenue from the sale of advanced communication solutions to customers around the world. Advanced communication solution sales can consist of any one or a combination of items required by our customer including hardware, technology platforms and related support. A large portion of our revenue from advanced communication solutions is derived from long-term contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyers specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts and is recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605-35. For these contracts, we primarily apply the percentage-of-completion accounting method and generally recognize revenue based on the relationship of total costs incurred to total projected costs, or, alternatively, based on output measures, such as units delivered or produced. Profits expected to be realized on such contracts are based on total estimated sales for the contract compared to total estimated costs, including warranty costs, at completion of the contract. Direct costs which can include materials, labor and overhead are charged to work-in-process (including our contracts-in-progress) inventory or cost of sales. Indirect costs relating to long-term contracts, which include expenses such as general and administrative, are charged to expense as incurred and are not included in our work-in-process (including our contracts-in-progress) inventory or cost of sales. Total estimates are reviewed and revised periodically throughout the lives of the contracts, and adjustments to profits resulting from such revisions are made cumulative to the date of the change. Estimated losses on long-term contracts are recorded in the period in which the losses become evident. Long-term U.S. government cost-reimbursable type contracts are also specifically covered by FASB ASC 605-35. We have been engaged in the production and delivery of goods and services on a continual basis under contractual arrangements for many years. Historically, we have demonstrated an ability to accurately estimate total revenues and total expenses relating to our long-term contracts. However, there exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating revenues, expenses and progress toward completion, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. If we do not accurately estimate the total sales, related costs and progress towards completion on such contracts, the estimated gross margins may be significantly impacted or losses may need to be recognized in future periods. Any such resulting changes in margins or contract losses could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, most government contracts have termination for convenience clauses that provide the customer with the right to terminate the contract at any time. Such terminations could impact the assumptions regarding total contract revenues and expenses utilized in recognizing profit under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Changes to these assumptions could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have not experienced material terminations of our long-term contracts. We also address customer acceptance provisions in assessing our ability to perform our contractual obligations under long-term contracts. Our inability to perform on our long-term contracts could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have been able to perform on our long-term contracts. 33 Index We also derive a large portion of our revenues for advanced communication solutions from contracts and purchase orders where revenue is recorded on delivery of products or performance of services in accordance with the authoritative guidance contained in FASB ASC 605-25, Revenue Recognition - Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements (ASC 605-25) and, if applicable, Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-14 (ASC Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements. Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment to determine if multiple elements exist, whether elements can be accounted for as separate units of accounting, and if so, the fair value for each of the elements. In summary, we recognize revenue for each separate unit of accounting when the applicable revenue recognition criteria for each element has been met. We allocate revenue to each separate unit of accounting in a multi-element arrangement based on the relative fair value of each element, using vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of their fair values, if available. VSOE is generally determined based on the price charged when an element is sold separately. In the absence of VSOE of fair value, the fee is allocated among each element based on third-party evidence (TPE) of fair value, which is determined based on competitor pricing for similar deliverables when sold separately. When we are unable to establish fair value using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price (ESP) to allocate value to each element. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold separately. We determine ESP for deliverables by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, prices we charge for similar offerings, market conditions, competitive landscape, and pricing practices. For multiple element arrangements that contain only software and software-related elements, we allocate the fees to each element based on the VSOE of fair value of each element. We have not incurred material warranty costs on any software product to date, and no costs are currently accrued upon recording the related revenue. Due to the nature of some of the agreements it may be difficult to establish VSOE of separate elements of an agreement; in these circumstances the appropriate recognition of revenue may require the use of judgment based on the particular facts and circumstances. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation . As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (13) Stock-Based Compensation, we issue stock-based awards to certain of our employees and our Board of Directors and we recognize related stock-based compensation for both equity and liability-classified stock-based awards in our condensed consolidated financial statements. We have used and expect to continue to use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to compute the estimated fair value of stock options. The Black-Scholes option pricing model includes assumptions regarding dividend yield, expected volatility, expected option term and risk-free interest rates. The expected dividend yield is the expected annual dividend as a percentage of the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. We estimate expected volatility by considering the historical volatility of our stock and the implied volatility of publicly-traded call options on our stock. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for an instrument which closely approximates the expected term. The expected term is the number of years we estimate that awards will be outstanding prior to exercise and is determined by employee groups with sufficiently distinct behavior patterns. The assumptions used in computing the fair value of stock-based awards reflect our best estimates, but involve uncertainties relating to market and other conditions, many of which are outside of our control. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by the recipients of stock-based awards. As a result, if other assumptions or estimates had been used, stock-based compensation expense that was recorded could have been materially different. Furthermore, if different assumptions are used in future periods, stock-based compensation expense could be materially impacted in the future. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (15) - " Segment Information ," in connection with the TCS acquisition, we announced a new segment organizational structure in which our chief operating decision maker began managing our business in two operating segments, each of which constitutes a reporting unit: Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions. Prior to February 1, 2016, our business was managed through three reportable operating segments (Telecommunications Transmission, RF Microwave Amplifiers and Mobile Data Communications). In connection with this reporting change, we performed a Before Reorganization and an After Reorganization interim goodwill impairment test during our three months ended April 30, 2016. We also reviewed our intangible assets for recoverability. Based on our tests, no impairment of legacy goodwill of $137.4 million or $17.4 million of legacy intangible assets (both of which exclude goodwill and intangible assets associated with the TCS acquisition) resulted from our change to a new segment organizational structure. As a result, the carrying value of our goodwill immediately prior to the segment change was reallocated $102.1 million to the Commercial Solutions segment and $35.3 million to the Government Solutions segment, based on each segments relative fair value. Additionally, in connection with this segment change, we assigned all of the $17.4 million of our previously existing intangible assets at January 31, 2016 to the Commercial Solutions segment, as that segment would utilize those assets. 34 Index As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (2) - Acquisition , the TCS acquisition resulted in goodwill of $127.1 million (of which $110.0 million was allocated to the Commercial Solutions segment and $17.1 million was allocated to the Government Solutions segment) and intangibles of $280.9 million (of which $228.0 million was assigned to the Commercial Solutions segment and $52.9 million was assigned to the Government Solutions segment. Goodwill was determined based upon a preliminary purchase price allocation including valuation, estimates and assumptions that are subject to change as more detailed analyses are completed within the purchase price allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition date). The primary areas of the purchase price allocation for TCS not yet finalized include income taxes and pre-acquisition contingencies for TCSs intellectual property matters that existed as of the acquisition date (see Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (19) Legal Matters and Proceedings) and residual goodwill. As of April 30, 2016 , total goodwill recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $264.5 million (of which $212.1 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $52.4 million relates to our Government Solutions segment). Additionally, as of April 30, 2016 , intangible assets recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $293.6 million , net (of which $241.8 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $51.8 million relates to our Government Solutions segment). Each of our two reportable operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions in determining their estimated fair values. In accordance with FASB ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods. If we fail Step One, we would do a Step Two test which compares the carrying value of the reporting unit to the fair value of all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangibles) as if the reporting unit was acquired in a business combination. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of its goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. We are required to perform the next annual goodwill impairment analysis on August 1, 2016 (the start of our fiscal 2017). During the interim periods, if our expected financial results materially decline below our initial expectations or if other events and circumstances change which indicate the potential for impairment (e.g., a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock (considered on both absolute terms and relative to peers)), we may be required to record interim impairment charges if we perform and fail an interim test. Any impairment charges that we may record in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Provision for Warranty Obligations. We provide warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long-term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment. We record a liability for estimated warranty expense based on historical claims, product failure rates and other factors. Costs associated with some of our warranties that are provided under long-term contracts are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs. There exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating warranty expenses, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. As such, if we do not accurately estimate our warranty costs, any changes to our original estimates could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Accounting for Income Taxes. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Our provision for income taxes is based on domestic (including federal and state) and international statutory income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions where we operate, permanent differences between financial reporting and tax reporting and available credits and incentives. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. The U.S. federal government is our most significant income tax jurisdiction. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and tax positions. We may be challenged upon review by the applicable taxing authority and positions taken by us may not be sustained. We recognize all or a portion of the benefit of income tax positions only when we have made a determination that it is more-likely-than-not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, based upon the technical merits of the position and other factors. For tax positions that are determined as more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination, the tax benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The development of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and reserves for income tax positions requires consideration of timing and judgments about future taxable income, tax issues and potential outcomes, and are subjective critical estimates. In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of our adoption of FASB ASU No. 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes, for periods presented after July 31, 2015, all of our deferred income taxes are now classified as non-current. 35 Index During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") continued to audit our federal income tax return for fiscal 2014. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2013 and 2015 are also subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2011 are subject to audit. TCSs federal income tax returns for calendar year 2013 and 2014 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of TCSs state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2011 are subject to audit. In addition to income tax audits, TCS is subject to ongoing state and local tax audits by the Washington State Department of Revenue and the City of Seattle. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Research and Development Costs. We generally expense all research and development costs. Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other personnel-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs. Costs incurred internally in researching and developing software to be sold are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the software. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. Technological feasibility for our advanced communication software solutions is generally reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to customers and when we are able to validate the marketability of such product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. To-date, we have not capitalized any of our internally developed software costs. Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends. Other factors may also influence our provision, including decisions to exit a product line, technological change and new product development. These factors could result in a change in the amount of excess and obsolete inventory on hand. Additionally, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory was overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charge could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We perform credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness, as determined by our review of our customers current credit information. Generally, we will require cash in advance or payment secured by irrevocable letters of credit before an order is accepted from an international customer that we do not do business with regularly. In addition, we seek to obtain insurance for certain domestic and international customers. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. We have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio. Except for an increase in bad debt expense in fiscal 2015 related to one international customer, our overall credit losses have historically been within our expectations of the allowances established. In light of the current global economic conditions, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have in the past. Measurement of credit losses requires consideration of historical loss experience, including the need to adjust for current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates and the financial health of specific customers. Changes to the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016 During our third quarter of fiscal 2016, we experienced strong order flow for Comtechs legacy business (which excludes TCS) and benefited from incremental bookings associated with new advanced communication solutions that we now offer as a result of the TCS acquisition. In aggregate, we achieved bookings of approximately $139.2 million during our third quarter of fiscal 2016 which translates into a quarterly book-to-bill ratio (a measure of quarterly bookings divided by quarterly net sales) of 1.12. The fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 will be the first full quarter reflecting TCS operations. To-date, we have been pleased with our integration of TCS and believe our overall business is at a turning point. We expect the strength in order flow that we experienced during our third quarter of fiscal 2016 to continue and expect a higher level of bookings in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 (both for Comtechs legacy business and our new product lines). 36 Index On a consolidated basis, fiscal 2016 revenues are expected to benefit from incremental net sales from TCS that will be generated from February 23, 2016 (the acquisition closing date) through July 31, 2016 (the end of our current fiscal year). Our third quarter of fiscal 2016 reflects approximately two months of TCS operations while our fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 will reflect a full three months of TCS operations. At the same time, as previously disclosed in our Form 10-Q filing for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016, consolidated net sales in fiscal 2016 will be impacted by lower sales of Comtech's legacy business which is not expected to achieve the same level of sales in fiscal 2016 as it achieved in fiscal 2015. In aggregate, however, consolidated fiscal 2016 revenues are expected to be higher than fiscal 2015 revenues as a result of the TCS acquisition. Our GAAP operating financial results for fiscal 2016 were significantly impacted by our acquisition plan which culminated with the acquisition of TCS. We expect to incur transaction and merger related expenditures related to the TCS acquisition of approximately $48.0 million which includes significant amounts for: (i) change-in-control payments, (ii) severance, (iii) costs associated with establishing a $400.0 million Secured Credit Facility, and (iv) professional fees for financial and legal advisors for both Comtech and TCS. For the three and nine months ended April 30, 2016, acquisition plan expenses were approximately $17.0 million and $20.7 million, respectively and primarily related to the TCS acquisition. We expect to record an additional expense of approximately $3.9 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. The remaining transaction and merger related expenditures have been accounted for by TCS prior to its acquisition by Comtech or have been capitalized (such as deferred financing costs) on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of April 30, 2016. Our GAAP operating results in fiscal 2016 will also reflect a significant increase in amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition. As such, on a GAAP basis, we expect to report an operating loss for fiscal 2016. However, excluding acquisition plan expenses, we expect to generate significant operating income and positive cash flows from operating activities. Looking forward to fiscal 2017, we believe that our fiscal 2017 GAAP financial results (including net sales, operating income and operating cash flow) will be significantly higher than the related amounts we expect to achieve in fiscal 2016. The below sections entitled Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended April 30, 2016 and April 30, 2015 and Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Nine Months Ended April 30, 2016 and April 30, 2015, have been presented based on how we now operate our business (including retrospectively reporting historical operating segment financial information). Because our historical results, prior to February 23, 2016, do not include TCS, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons as an indicator of future performance as these comparisons may not be meaningful. COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2016 AND APRIL 30, 2015 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were approximately $124.2 million and $71.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing an increase of $52.6 million, or 73.5% . The period-over-period increase in net sales reflects incremental sales of approximately $66.0 million as a result of the TCS acquisition, partially offset by lower sales of legacy Comtech products. Net sales by operating segment are further discussed below. Commercial Solutions Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were approximately $72.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to $47.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , an increase of $24.5 million, or 51.6% . The period-over-period increase reflects incremental sales of approximately $31.0 million as a result of the TCS acquisition, partially offset by lower sales of Comtech legacy products. Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 58.0% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to 66.3% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 . Although sales of Comtech legacy products, in particular, our satellite earth station products, continued to be impacted by extremely challenging business conditions that existed earlier in the year, we believe that market conditions have become relatively stable. During the three months ended April 30, 2016, we saw double-digit order growth for solutions that include our satellite earth station products as compared to orders received during the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2016. Bookings during our most recent quarter for our traveling wave-tube amplifier solutions were at their highest quarterly level for fiscal 2016. During the three months ended April 30, 2016, our Commercial Solutions segment benefited from sales of location and messaging based platforms and safety and security solutions that we now offer as a result of the TCS acquisition. During the quarter, we initiated a strategy to carefully integrate and cross-share technology across each of our respective product lines. This strategy, over time, will result in historical sales patterns and product mix trends becoming less relevant. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of sales of legacy Comtech or TCS brands may not be meaningful. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Commercial Solutions segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment. 37 Index Government Solutions Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were approximately $52.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to $24.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , an increase of $28.1 million, or 116.6% . The period-over-period increase in sales reflects incremental sales of approximately $34.9 million as a result of the TCS acquisition, partially offset by lower sales of Comtech legacy products. Our Government Solutions segment represented 42.0% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2016, as compared to 33.7% for the three months ended April 30, 2015. The decrease in Comtech legacy sales in our most recent quarter was driven by significantly lower comparative net sales of over-the-horizon microwave products, partially offset by increased sales of high-power broadband amplifiers and BFT-1 sustainment support services. Sales of our over-the-horizon microwave system products were significantly lower when compared to the prior comparative period, as our two large multi-year contracts to design and supply over-the-horizon microwave systems and equipment for a North African government are nearing completion. Sales in both periods include $2.5 million of net sales related to a $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license fee. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , we received $20.0 million of funded orders to continue to provide BFT-1 sustainment support services to the U.S. Army through March 31, 2017. Our Government Solutions segment benefited in the third quarter of fiscal 2016 from a variety of new advanced communication solutions that we now offer as a result of the TCS acquisition. These solutions include field support, space components and cyber-training. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , we initiated a strategy to carefully integrate and cross-share technology across each of our respective product lines. We have also begun jointly marketing our products to facilitate future growth. These strategies, over time, will result in historical sales patterns and mix trends becoming less relevant. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of sales of legacy Comtech or TCS brands may not be meaningful. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Government Solutions segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Geography and Customer Type Sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of related sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Three months ended April 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Consolidated U.S. government 21.4 % 38.1 % 70.1 % 36.3 % 41.9 % 37.5 % Domestic 51.3 % 14.6 % 13.1 % 6.6 % 35.2 % 11.9 % Total U.S. 72.7 % 52.7 % 83.2 % 42.9 % 77.1 % 49.4 % International 27.3 % 47.3 % 16.8 % 57.1 % 22.9 % 50.6 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic sales include sales to U.S. state and local governments. International sales include sales to U.S. companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers. Gross Profit. Gross profit was approximately $51.4 million and $32.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing an increase of $19.1 million. This increase in gross profit dollars was driven by higher consolidated net sales resulting from the TCS acquisition, partially offset by lower sales of Comtech legacy products. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased from 45.1% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 to 41.4% for the three months ended April 30, 2016 . This decrease is primarily attributable to overall product mix changes resulting primarily from the TCS acquisition, in particular, the inclusion of sales related to TCS government solutions, which have historically had lower gross margins than Comtechs legacy products. Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment sales is further discussed below. 38 Index Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , was significantly higher as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015 . This increase was driven, in part, by the inclusion of sales of TCS commercial solutions which had higher gross margins than Comtechs legacy products. Additionally, during the three months ended April 30, 2016, we initiated certain cost reduction actions in our high-volume manufacturing center in Tempe, Arizona to better align those operations with current and expected levels of production. We believe these cost reductions will provide benefit in future periods. Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2016 , was significantly lower as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015 . This decrease was driven, in part, by the inclusion of sales of TCS government solutions which had significantly lower gross margins than our legacy over-the-horizon microwave ("troposcatter") product line, high-power broadband amplifiers and our mobile data communications products. Comtechs legacy products. Additionally, during the three months ended April 30, 2016, we experienced a significant drop in sales and related gross margins of our over-the-horizon microwave system products, as a result of two large international contracts that were nearing completion. Gross profit in both periods includes the benefit of $2.5 million related to our $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license. Included in consolidated cost of sales for both the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $0.7 million . As discussed in our Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory, we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage assumptions. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were approximately $30.4 million and $15.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing an increase of $15.4 million. The increase in spending is primarily attributable to incremental expenses associated with the increase in size of our business as a result of the TCS acquisition. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 24.5% and 20.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $0.9 million in the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to $1.0 million in the three months ended April 30, 2015. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were approximately $12.6 million and $8.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing an increase of $4.0 million, or 46.5% . The increase in spending is primarily attributable to incremental expenses associated with the TCS product lines, partially offset by lower spending as a result of cost reduction activities and the completion of several research and development projects. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 10.1% and 12.0% for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. For the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , research and development expenses of $10.1 million and $7.1 million, respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment and $2.5 million and $1.3 million, respectively, related to our Government Solutions segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , customers reimbursed us $6.1 million and $2.5 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses, but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Acquisition Plan Expenses. As discussed in prior SEC filings, our President and CEO previously initiated an assessment of our operations and embarked on a focused acquisition plan which culminated with the closing of the acquisition of TCS on February 23, 2016. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , we incurred approximately $17.0 million of expenses related to this acquisition plan. These expenses include significant amounts associated with the TCS acquisition primarily for: (i) change-in-control payments, (ii) severance, (iii) costs associated with establishing a $400.0 million Secured Credit Facility, and (iv) professional fees for financial and legal advisors for both Comtech and TCS. We expect to record additional acquisition plan expenses of approximately $3.9 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. There were no comparable expenses during the three months ended April 30, 2015. 39 Index Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was approximately $4.8 million and $1.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The significant increase in amortization of intangibles is a result of our acquisition of TCS. Operating (Loss) Income. Operating loss for the three months ended April 30, 2016 was approximately $13.4 million as compared to operating income of $7.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015. Excluding $17.0 million of expenses related to our acquisition plan, which culminated in the acquisition of TCS, operating income for the three months ended April 30, 2016 would have been $3.6 million, or 2.9% of consolidated net sales. Operating income for the three months ended April 30, 2015, as a percentage of consolidated net sales was 10.1%. Consolidated operating income (both in dollars and a percentage of consolidated net sales) was directly impacted by the TCS acquisition (including incremental amortization of intangibles) and by changes in segment operating income contributions as shown in the table below: Three months ended April 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Operating income (loss) $ 6.6 3.2 5.6 8.0 (25.6 ) (4.0 ) $ (13.4 ) 7.2 Percentage of related net sales 9.2 % 6.7 % 10.7 % 33.2 % NA NA (10.8 )% 10.1 % Our Commercial Solutions segments operating income, in dollars, reflects incremental contribution associated with TCS commercial solution sales, offset in part, by lower contributions by Comtechs legacy business. The increase in operating income as a percentage of our Commercial Solutions segments net sales is primarily due to the inclusion of sales of TCS communication solutions which had higher gross margins than Comtechs legacy commercial solutions products. Our Government Solutions segments operating income, in dollars, reflects incremental contribution associated with TCS government solution sales which were more than offset by significantly lower comparative net sales of Comtechs legacy products, in particular, lower sales of our over-the-horizon microwave system products. The decrease in operating income as a percentage of our Government Solutions segments net sales is primarily due to the inclusion of sales of TCS government solutions which had significantly lower gross margins than Comtechs legacy government solutions products. Unallocated operating expenses which are included in the above table were $25.6 million and $4.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The increase is primarily due to the $17.0 million of expense related to our focused acquisition plan, the large majority of which related to our activities which resulted in our acquisition of TCS on February 23, 2016. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is included in unallocated operating expenses, was $1.0 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Interest Expense and Other. Interest expense was approximately $3.5 million and $0.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Interest expense during the three months ended April 30, 2016 primarily reflects interest on our $400.0 million Secured Credit Facility related to the TCS acquisition. Based on the type, terms and amount of outstanding debt (including capital leases), we estimate that our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) will be 5.0% during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 and 5.0% in fiscal 2017. Interest Income and Other. Interest income and other for both the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 was nominal. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits, money market mutual funds, certificates of deposit, and short-term U.S. Treasury securities which, at this time, are currently yielding a blended annual interest rate of approximately 0.38% . Provision for Income Taxes. During the three months ended April 30, 2016, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $2.5 million as a result of our current period operating loss. This tax benefit compared to a tax expense of $2.2 million during the three months ended April 30, 2015. 40 Index Our effective tax rate of 14.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2016 reflects a net discrete tax expense of approximately $0.7 million, primarily related to the establishment of tax contingencies for uncertain tax positions relating to the payment of certain expenses associated with the TCS acquisition offset, in part, by the reversal of tax contingencies no longer required due to the expiration of applicable statutes of limitation. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended April 30, 2015 of 31.1% reflects a discrete tax benefit of approximately $0.3 million, principally related to the reversal of tax contingencies no longer required due to the expiration of applicable statutes of limitation. Excluding discrete tax items for the three months ended April 30, 2016, our effective tax rate would have been 19.25%. This rate was impacted by the non-deductibility of certain transaction costs related to the acquisition of TCS. Excluding discrete tax items for the three months ended April 30, 2015, our effective tax rate would have been 34.75%. The TCS acquisition significantly impacted our geographical sales mix and has a different spending profile than our legacy business. Looking forward to fiscal 2017, we currently estimate that our effective tax rate will approximate 37.5%. During the three months ended April 30, 2016, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") continued to audit our federal income tax return for fiscal 2014. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2013 and 2015 are also subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2011 are subject to audit. TCSs federal income tax returns for calendar year 2013 and 2014 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of TCSs state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2011 are subject to audit. In addition to income tax audits, TCS is subject to ongoing state and local tax audits by the Washington State Department of Revenue and the City of Seattle. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Net Loss (Income). During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , consolidated net loss was $ 14.4 million as compared to the consolidated net income of $5.0 million that we achieved during the three months ended April 30, 2015 . The net loss during the most recent period is largely attributable to the acquisition plan expenses related to the TCS acquisition and the impact of all of the other aforementioned items discussed above. Adjusted EBITDA. Our Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP operating metric, represents earnings before income taxes, interest income and other expense, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, acquisition plan expenses or strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other. These items, while periodically affecting our results, may vary significantly from period to period and may have a disproportionate effect in a given period, thereby affecting the comparability of results. Our Adjusted EBITDA is also used by our management in assessing the Company's operating results. The Company's definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA or Adjusted EBITDA used by other companies (including TCS prior to our acquisition) and, therefore, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Our Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by the Company's investors and analysts. The Company believes that investors and analysts may use our Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our ability to generate cash flow and service our debt. Adjusted EBITDA (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) for both the three months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 are shown in the table below: Three months ended April 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Net income (loss) $ 6.4 3.3 5.6 8.0 (26.4 ) (6.3 ) $ (14.4 ) 5.0 Income taxes (0.1 ) (2.5 ) 2.4 (2.5 ) 2.2 Interest (income) and other expense 0.1 (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Interest expense 0.1 0.1 3.4 3.5 0.1 Amortization of stock-based compensation 1.0 1.2 1.0 1.2 Amortization of intangibles 3.6 1.6 1.2 4.8 1.6 Depreciation 2.1 1.3 0.6 0.3 0.3 3.1 1.7 Acquisition plan expenses 17.0 17.0 Adjusted EBITDA $ 12.3 6.1 7.4 8.3 (7.3 ) (2.8 ) $ 12.5 11.6 Percentage of related net sales 17.1 % 12.8 % 14.2 % 34.4 % NA NA 10.0 % 16.2 % 41 Index The increase in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, in dollars, during the three months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2015 is primarily attributable to earnings contributions associated with the TCS acquisition offset by lower earnings contributions from Comtechs legacy business. We believe that consolidated Adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 will be higher than our most recently completed quarter. Please refer to Note (15) Segment Information in our " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable GAAP measure. COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2016 AND APRIL 30, 2015 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were approximately $258.6 million and $229.8 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing an increase of $28.8 million, or 12.5% . The period-over-period increase in net sales reflects incremental sales of approximately $66.0 million as a result of the TCS acquisition, partially offset by lower sales of legacy Comtech products. Net sales by operating segment are further discussed below. Commercial Solutions Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were approximately $165.7 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to $152.1 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , an increase of $13.6 million, or 8.9% . The period-over-period increase in sales reflects incremental sales of approximately $31.0 million as a result of the TCS acquisition, partially offset by lower sales of Comtech legacy products. Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 64.1% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to 66.2% for the nine months ended April 30, 2015. Although sales of Comtech legacy products, in particular, our satellite earth station products, continue to be impacted by extremely challenging business conditions that existed earlier in the year, we believe that market conditions have become relatively stable. During the nine months ended April 30, 2016, our Commercial Solutions segment benefited from sales of location and messaging based platforms and safety and security solutions that we now offer as a result of the TCS acquisition. During the quarter, we initiated a strategy to carefully integrate and cross-share technology across each of our respective product lines. This strategy, over time, will result in historical sales patterns and product mix trends becoming less relevant. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of sales of legacy Comtech or TCS brands may not be meaningful. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Commercial Solutions Segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment. Government Solutions Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were approximately $93.0 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to $77.7 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , an increase of $15.3 million, or 19.7% . The period-over-period increase in sales reflects incremental sales of approximately $34.9 million as a result of the TCS acquisition, partially offset by lower sales of Comtech legacy products. Our Government Solutions segment represented 35.9% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 , as compared to 33.8% for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 . The decrease in Comtech legacy sales in our most recent quarter was driven by significantly lower comparative net sales of over-the-horizon microwave products, partially offset by increased sales of high-power broadband amplifiers and BFT-1 sustainment support services. Sales of our over-the-horizon microwave system products were significantly lower when compared to the prior comparative period, as our two large multi-year contracts to design and supply over-the-horizon microwave systems and equipment for a North African government are nearing completion. Sales in both periods include $7.5 million of net sales related to a $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license fee. During the nine months ended April 30, 2016 , we received $20.0 million of funded orders to continue to provide BFT-1 sustainment support services to the U.S. Army through March 31, 2017. Our Government Solutions segment benefited in the third quarter of fiscal 2016 from a variety of new advanced communication solutions that we now offer as a result of the TCS acquisition. These solutions include field support, space components and cyber-training. During the three months ended April 30, 2016 , we initiated a strategy to carefully integrate and cross-share technology across each of our respective product lines. We have also begun jointly marketing our products to facilitate future growth. These strategies, over time, will result in historical sales patterns and mix trends becoming less relevant. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of sales of legacy Comtech or TCS brands may not be meaningful. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Government Solutions segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. 42 Index Geography and Customer Type Sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of related sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Nine months ended April 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Consolidated U.S. government 27.8 % 28.8 % 66.6 % 31.6 % 41.8 % 29.7 % Domestic 33.4 % 15.7 % 12.8 % 6.2 % 26.0 % 12.5 % Total U.S. 61.2 % 44.5 % 79.4 % 37.8 % 67.8 % 42.2 % International 38.8 % 55.5 % 20.6 % 62.2 % 32.2 % 57.8 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic sales include sales to U.S state and local governments. International sales include sales to U.S. companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers. Gross Profit. Gross profit was approximately $109.0 million and $105.5 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing an increase of $3.5 million. This increase in gross profit dollars was driven by higher consolidated net sales resulting from the TCS acquisition, partially offset by lower sales of Comtech legacy products. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased from 45.9% for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 to 42.2% for the nine months ended April 30, 2016. This decrease is primarily attributable to overall product mix changes resulting primarily from the TCS acquisition, in particular, the inclusion of sales related to TCS government solutions, which have historically had lower gross margins than Comtechs legacy products. Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment sales is further discussed below. Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 was comparable to the nine months ended April 30, 2015 . Our commercial solutions segments gross profit during the nine months ended April 30, 2016 reflects the inclusion of sales of TCS commercial products. Additionally, during the nine months ended April 30, 2016, gross profit in this segment was impacted by lower sales of Comtech legacy products and overall changes in product mix. Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 , was lower as compared to the nine months ended April 30, 2015 . This decrease was driven, in part, by the inclusion of sales of TCS government solutions which had significantly lower gross margins than our legacy over-the-horizon microwave ("troposcatter") product line, high-power broadband amplifiers and our mobile data communications products. Additionally, during the nine months ended April 30, 2016, we experienced a large drop in sales and related gross margins of our over-the-horizon microwave systems equipment, as a result of two large international contracts that were nearing completion. Gross profit in both periods includes $7.5 million related to a $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license. Included in consolidated cost of sales for both the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $2.0 million . As discussed in Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory, we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage assumptions. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were approximately $60.8 million and $46.6 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing an increase of $14.2 million. The increase in spending is primarily attributable to incremental expenses associated with the increase in size of our business as a result of the TCS acquisition. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 23.5% and 20.3% for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $2.6 million in the nine months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to $3.0 million in the nine months ended April 30, 2015 . This decrease is primarily related to changes in the timing of grants for certain stock-based awards. 43 Index Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were approximately $28.2 million and $28.3 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing a decrease of $0.1 million, or 0.4% . The decrease in spending is the result of cost reduction activities and the completion of several research and development projects that was offset by incremental expenses associated with the TCS product lines. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 10.9% and 12.3% for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. For the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , research and development expenses of $22.5 million and $23.4 million, respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment and $5.4 million and $4.4 million, respectively, related to our Government Solutions segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.3 million and $0.5 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , customers reimbursed us $10.9 million and $6.7 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses, but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Acquisition Plan Expenses. As discussed in prior SEC filings, our President and CEO previously initiated an assessment of our operations and embarked on a focused acquisition plan which culminated with the closing of the acquisition of TCS on February 23, 2016. During the nine months ended April 30, 2016, we incurred approximately $20.7 million of expenses related to this acquisition plan. These expenses include significant amounts associated with the TCS acquisition primarily for: (i) change-in-control payments, (ii) severance, (iii) costs associated with establishing a $400.0 million Secured Credit Facility, and (iv) professional fees for financial and legal advisors for both Comtech and TCS. We expect to record additional acquisition plan expenses of approximately $3.9 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. There were no comparable expenses during the nine months ended April 30, 2015. Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was approximately $7.3 million and $4.7 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The significant increase in amortization of intangibles is a result of our acquisition of TCS. Operating (Loss) Income. Operating loss for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 was approximately $8.0 million as compared to operating income of $26.0 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015. Excluding $20.7 million of expenses related to our acquisition plan, which culminated in the acquisition of TCS, operating income for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 would have been $12.7 million, or 4.9% of consolidated net sales. Operating income for the nine months ended April 30, 2015, as a percentage of consolidated net sales was 11.3% . Consolidated operating income (both in dollars and a percentage of consolidated net sales) was directly impacted by the TCS acquisition (including incremental amortization of intangibles) and by changes in segment operating income contributions as shown in the table below: Nine months ended April 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Operating income (loss) $ 14.0 14.5 15.4 23.5 (37.5 ) (12.0 ) $ (8.0 ) 26.0 Percentage of related net sales 8.4 % 9.5 % 16.6 % 30.2 % NA NA (3.1 )% 11.3 % Our Commercial Solutions segments operating income, in dollars, reflects incremental contribution associated with TCS commercial solution sales that were more than offset by lower comparative net sales of Comtechs legacy products, in particular, satellite earth station product sales. The decrease in operating income as a percentage of our Commercial Solutions segments net sales is primarily due to the inclusion of sales of TCS commercial solutions which had significantly lower gross margins than Comtechs legacy commercial solutions products. 44 Index Our Government Solutions segments operating income, in dollars, reflects incremental contribution associated with TCS government solution sales which were more than offset by significantly lower comparative net sales of Comtechs legacy products, in particular, lower sales of our over-the-horizon microwave system products. The decrease in operating income as a percentage of our Government Solutions segments net sales is primarily due to the inclusion of sales of TCS government solutions which had significantly lower gross margins than Comtechs legacy government solutions products. Unallocated operating expenses which are included in the above table were $37.5 million and $12.0 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The increase is primarily due to the $20.7 million of expense related to our focused acquisition plan, the large majority of which related to our activities which resulted in our acquisition of TCS on February 23, 2016. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is included in unallocated operating expenses, was $3.2 million and $3.6 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Interest Expense and Other. Interest expense was approximately $3.6 million and $0.4 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Interest expense during the nine months ended April 30, 2016 primarily reflects interest on our $400.0 million Secured Credit Facility related to the TCS acquisition. Based on the type, terms and amount of outstanding debt (including capital leases), we estimate that our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) will be 5.0% during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 and 5.0% in fiscal 2017. Interest Income and Other. Interest income and other for both the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 was nominal. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits, money market mutual funds, certificates of deposit, and short-term U.S. Treasury securities which, at this time, are currently yielding a blended annual interest rate of approximately 0.38% . Provision for Income Taxes. During the nine months ended April 30, 2016, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $1.0 million as a result of our current period operating loss. This tax benefit compared to a tax expense of $8.1 million during the nine months ended April 30, 2015. Our effective tax rate of 8.7% for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 reflects a net discrete tax expense of approximately $1.2 million, primarily related to the establishment of tax contingencies for uncertain tax positions relating to the payment of certain expenses associated with the TCS acquisition offset, in part, by the reversal of tax contingencies no longer required due to the expiration of applicable statutes of limitation. Our effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 of 31.3% reflects a discrete tax benefit of approximately $0.9 million, primarily related to (i) the passage of legislation that included the retroactive extension of the research and experimentation credit from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014; (ii) the finalization of certain tax deductions in connection with the filing of certain foreign fiscal 2014 income tax returns; and (iii) the reversal of tax contingencies no longer required due to the expiration of applicable statutes of limitation. Excluding discrete tax items for the nine months ended April 30, 2016, our effective tax rate would have been 19.25%. This rate was impacted by the non-deductibility of certain transaction costs related to the acquisition of TCS. Excluding discrete tax items for the nine months ended April 30, 2015, our effective tax rate would have been 34.75%. The TCS acquisition significantly impacted our geographical sales mix and has a different spending profile than our legacy business. Looking forward to fiscal 2017, we currently estimate that our effective tax rate will approximate 37.5%. During the nine months ended April 30, 2016, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") continued to audit our federal income tax return for fiscal 2014. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2013 and 2015 are also subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2011 are subject to audit. TCSs federal income tax returns for calendar year 2013 and 2014 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of TCSs state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2011 are subject to audit. In addition to income tax audits, TCS is subject to ongoing state and local tax audits by the Washington State Department of Revenue and the City of Seattle. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Net Loss (Income). During the nine months ended April 30, 2016 , consolidated net loss was $10.4 million as compared to the consolidated net income of $17.8 million that we achieved during the nine months ended April 30, 2015 . The net loss during the most recent period is largely attributable to the acquisition plan expenses related to the TCS acquisition and the impact of all of the other aforementioned items discussed above. 45 Index Adjusted EBITDA. Our Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP operating metric, represents earnings before income taxes, interest (income) and other expense, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, acquisition plan expenses or strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other. These items, while periodically affecting our results, may vary significantly from period to period and may have a disproportionate effect in a given period, thereby affecting the comparability of results. Our Adjusted EBITDA is also used by our management in assessing the Company's operating results. The Company's definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA or Adjusted EBITDA used by other companies (including TCS prior to our acquisition) and, therefore, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Our Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by the Company's investors and analysts. The Company believes that investors and analysts may use our Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our ability to generate cash flow and service our debt. Adjusted EBITDA (both in dollars and a percentage of related net sales) for both the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 are shown in the table below: Nine months ended April 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Net income (loss) $ 13.6 14.4 15.4 23.6 (39.5 ) (20.2 ) $ (10.4 ) 17.8 Income taxes 0.1 (0.2 ) (1.1 ) 8.3 (1.0 ) 8.1 Interest (income) and other expense 0.1 0.1 (0.3 ) (0.4 ) (0.2 ) (0.3 ) Interest expense 0.2 0.2 3.4 0.2 3.6 0.4 Amortization of stock-based compensation 3.2 3.6 3.2 3.6 Amortization of intangibles 6.2 4.7 1.2 7.3 4.7 Depreciation 4.6 3.9 1.2 0.9 0.3 6.1 4.9 Acquisition plan expenses 20.7 20.7 Strategic alternatives analysis 0.6 0.6 Adjusted EBITDA $ 24.8 23.1 17.7 24.5 (13.3 ) (7.7 ) $ 29.2 39.8 Percentage of related net sales 15.0 % 15.2 % 19.0 % 31.5 % NA NA 11.3 % 17.3 % The decrease in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, in dollars, during the nine months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended April 2015, is primarily attributable to earnings contributions associated with the TCS acquisition more than offset by lower earnings contributions from Comtech's legacy business. We believe that consolidated Adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 will be higher than our current quarter. Please refer to Note (15) Segment Information in our " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 46 Index LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our cash and cash equivalents decreased to approximately $69.1 million at April 30, 2016 from $151.0 million at July 31, 2015 , a decrease of $81.8 million . The decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the nine months ended April 30, 2016 was driven by the following: Net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $ 12.3 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to $ 7.7 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 . The period-over-period increase in cash flow from operating activities is attributable to overall changes in net working capital requirements and the timing of billings and payments. Net cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended April 30, 2016 would have been significantly higher had we not incurred significant acquisition plan expenses related to our TCS acquisition. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 was approximately $ 283.6 million as compared to $ 2.8 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 . During the nine months ended April 30, 2016 , we paid $280.5 million of cash in connection with the acquisition of TCS, which is net of cash acquired. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $ 189.5 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2016 as compared to net cash used of $ 17.3 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 . The significant period-over-period increase in cash flow from financing activities is primarily attributable to the $351.9 million proceeds received from the borrowings under a $400.0 million Secured Credit Facility, partially offset by a payment of $134.1 million for debt assumed in connection with the acquisition of TCS. This TCS debt was paid on the closing date of the acquisition or, in the case of TCS's 7.75% convertible senior notes, shortly after we closed the acquisition. During the nine months ended April 30, 2016, we also paid $10.1 million of debt issuance costs associated with the Secured Credit Facility and made our first mandatory principal payment. During the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and 2015 , we paid $14.5 million and $14.6 million , respectively, in cash dividends to our shareholders. Our investment policy relating to our cash and cash equivalents is intended to minimize principal loss while at the same time maximize the income we receive without significantly increasing risk. To minimize risk, we generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in money market mutual funds (both government and commercial), certificates of deposit, bank deposits, and U.S. Treasury securities. Many of our money market mutual funds invest in direct obligations of the U.S. government, bank securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, certificates of deposit and commercial paper and other securities issued by other companies. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we believe our investment policies are appropriate in the current environment. Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market. As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (10 ) - Secured Credit Facility and the section above entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2016, we acquired TCS on February 23, 2016 and entered into a five-year Secured Credit Facility, which is described below, in further detail, in the section entitled "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Financing Arrangements - $400.0 Million Secured Credit Facility." Our material short-term cash requirements primarily consist of: (i) quarterly interest payments and principal repayments associated with the Secured Credit Facility, (ii) our ongoing working capital needs, including income tax payments and (iii) accrued quarterly dividends. As of April 30, 2016 and June 8, 2016 , we were authorized to repurchase up to an additional $8.7 million of our common stock, pursuant to our current $100.0 million stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase program has no time restrictions and repurchases may be made in open-market or privately negotiated transactions and may be made pursuant to SEC Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. There were no repurchases of our common stock during the three or nine months ended April 30, 2016. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 , we repurchased 175,735 shares of our common stock in open-market transactions with an average price per share of $28.39 and at an aggregate cost of $5.0 million (including transaction costs). During the nine months ended April 30, 2016 , our Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends of $0.30 per common share aggregating $14.5 million of which $9.7 million was paid during the nine months ended April 30, 2016 with the remainder paid on May 20, 2016 . On June 8, 2016 , our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per common share, payable on August 19, 2016 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 18, 2016 . This latest dividend declaration represents our twenty-fourth consecutive quarterly dividend. Future dividends are subject to Board approval and compliance with financial covenants under our Secured Credit Facility. 47 Index Our material long-term cash requirements primarily consist of mandatory interest payments and principal repayments pursuant to our Secured Credit Facility and payments relating to our operating and capital leases. In addition, we expect to make future cash payments of approximately $4.1 million related to our 2009 Radyne-related restructuring plan, including accreted interest. For further information regarding our Radyne restructuring plan, see Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (9) - Radyne Acquisition-Related Restructuring Plan. In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions and overall adverse business conditions, we continue to receive requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. We have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests and have experienced an increase in bad debt expense in recent periods attributable to one international customer located in South America. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio and, except for this one international customer, we have not had any material negative customer credit experiences. We have historically met both our short-term and long-term cash requirements with funds provided by a combination of cash and cash equivalent balances, cash generated from operating activities and cash generated from financing transactions. Based on our anticipated level of future sales and operating income, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalent balances, our cash generated from operating activities and amounts potentially available under the Revolving Loan Facility under our Secured Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet both our currently anticipated short-term and long-term operating cash requirements. However, we have filed a Shelf Registration Statement with the SEC which will allow us to issue various types of securities, including debt, from time to time, up to an aggregate $175.0 million. Although it is difficult in the current economic and credit environment to predict the terms and conditions of financing that may be available in the future, should our short-term or long-term cash requirements increase beyond our current expectations, we believe that we would have sufficient access to credit from financial institutions and/or financing from public and private debt and equity markets. FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS $400.0 Million Secured Credit Facility On February 23, 2016 , in connection with our acquisition of TCS, we entered into a $400.0 million secured credit facility (the "Secured Credit Facility) with a syndicate of lenders. The Secured Credit Facility provides a senior secured term loan A facility of $250.0 million (the Term Loan Facility) and a senior secured revolving loan facility of up to $150.0 million , including a $25.0 million letter of credit sublimit (the Revolving Loan Facility and, together, with the Term Loan Facility, the Secured Credit Facilities), each of which mature in five years, on February 23, 2021. The proceeds of these borrowings were used to finance in part our acquisition of TCS, including the repayment of certain existing indebtedness of TCS. The Revolving Loan Facility will be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries, including the issuance of letters of credit. Borrowings under the Secured Credit Facilities, pursuant to terms defined in the Secured Credit Facility, shall be either (i) ABR borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 0.50% per annum and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate on such day (or, if such day is not a business day, the immediately preceding business day) plus 1.00% per annum (provided that if the LIBO Rate is less than 1.00%, then the LIBO Rate shall be deemed to be 1.00%), plus (y) the Applicable Rate , or (ii) Eurodollar borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such interest period (provided that if the LIBO Rate is less than 1.00%, then the LIBO Rate shall be deemed to be 1.00%) plus (y) the Applicable Rate. The Applicable Rate is determined based on a pricing grid that is dependent upon our leverage ratio as of the end of the fiscal quarter for which financial statements have most recently been delivered. The Secured Credit Facility contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants and customary negative covenants, subject to negotiated exceptions, on (i) liens, (ii) investments, (iii) indebtedness, (iv) significant corporate changes, including mergers and acquisitions, (v) dispositions, (vi) restricted payments, including stockholder dividends, and (vii) certain other restrictive agreements. The Secured Credit Facility also contains certain financial covenants and customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate), such as payment defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency, the occurrence of a defined change in control and the failure to observe the negative covenants and other covenants related to the operation of our business. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be required to enter into amendments to the Secured Credit Facility in connection with the further syndication of up to $15.0 million of the Secured Credit Facility. The obligations under the Secured Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the Subsidiary Guarantors). As collateral security for amounts outstanding under our Secured Credit Facility and the guarantees thereof, we and our Subsidiary Guarantors have granted to an administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a lien on, and first priority security interest in, substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the credit agreement, dated as of February 23, 2016, pursuant to which the Secured Credit Facility is documented. 48 Index OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS As of April 30, 2016 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. COMMITMENTS In the normal course of business, other than as discussed below, we routinely enter into binding and non-binding purchase obligations primarily covering anticipated purchases of inventory and equipment. We do not expect that these commitments, as of April 30, 2016 , will materially adversely affect our liquidity. At April 30, 2016 , cash payments due under long-term obligations (including interest on our Secured Credit Facility pursuant to the credit agreement), excluding purchase orders that we entered into in our normal course of business are as follows: Obligations Due by Fiscal Years or Maturity Date (in thousands) Total Remainder of 2016 2017 and 2018 2019 and 2020 After 2020 Secured Credit Facility, including interest $ 417,525 4,854 66,800 75,488 270,383 Operating lease commitments 57,647 3,760 24,132 14,442 15,313 Capital lease obligations 9,317 1,144 6,392 1,781 Net contractual cash obligations $ 484,489 9,758 97,324 91,711 285,696 In fiscal 2015, we entered into a multi-year purchase agreement in the amount of $12.9 million for certain inventory items. Such amount is not included in the above table because the purchase agreement is cancellable at our option. As of April 30, 2016 , our maximum liability under this purchase commitment was approximately $2.7 million. As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (18) - Stockholders Equity, on June 8, 2016 , our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per common share, payable on August 19, 2016 to our shareholders of record at the close of business on July 18, 2016 . No future dividend amounts are included in the above table. At April 30, 2016 , we have approximately $2.4 million of standby letters of credit outstanding related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts. Such amounts are not included in the above table. In the ordinary course of business, we include indemnification provisions in certain of our customer contracts. Pursuant to these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify, hold harmless and reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, including but not limited to losses related to third-party intellectual property claims. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these agreements due to a history of nominal claims in the Comtech legacy business and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (19) - "Legal Proceedings and Other Matters, TCS is a party to a number of indemnification matters and disputes and we are incurring ongoing legal expenses in connection with these matters. Our insurance policies may not cover the cost of defending indemnification claims or providing indemnification. As a result, pending or future claims asserted against us by a party that we have agreed to indemnify could result in legal costs and damages that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We have change in control agreements, severance agreements and indemnification agreements with certain of our executive officers and certain key employees. All of these agreements may require payments by us, in certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in control of our Company or an involuntary termination of employment without cause. Our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of April 30, 2016 includes total liabilities of $8.8 million for uncertain tax positions, including interest, any or all of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of any potential cash settlement with the taxing authorities. 49 Index RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS We are required to prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board's (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) which is the source for all authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which is commonly referred to as GAAP. The ASC is subject to updates by the FASB, which are known as Accounting Standards Updates (ASUs). As further discussed in Note (3) - Adoption of Accounting Standards and Updates included in Part I Item 1. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, during the nine months ended April 30, 2016 , we adopted: FASB ASU No. 2014-08 which changed the definition of discontinued operations and related disclosure requirements. Only those disposed components (or components held-for-sale) representing a strategic shift that have (or will have) a major effect on operations and financial results will be reported as discontinued operations. Continuing involvement will no longer prevent a disposal group from being presented as discontinued operations. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2014-16 which requires an entity that issues or invests in hybrid financial instruments, issued in the form of a share, to determine the nature of the host contract by considering all stated and implied substantive terms and features of the hybrid financial instrument, weighing each term and feature on the basis of relevant facts and circumstances and including the embedded derivative feature that is being evaluated for separate accounting from the host contract. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2015-01 which eliminates the concept of extraordinary items from GAAP and expands the presentation and disclosure guidance for items that are unusual in nature or occur infrequently. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2015-02 which amends current consolidation guidance affecting the evaluation of whether certain legal entities should be consolidated. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2015-03 which requires that debt issuance costs (which we refer to as deferred financing costs) be presented as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability, consistent with the presentation of debt discounts. Also, ASU No. 2015-15 was issued in August 2015 and indicates that Securities and Exchange Commission staff would not object to an entity deferring and presenting debt issuance costs associated with a line of credit arrangement as an asset and subsequently amortizing the deferred debt issuance costs ratably over the term of the line of credit arrangement, regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings. As discussed further in Note (10) - " Secured Credit Facilities " included in Part I Item 1. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we adopted this ASU during the nine months ended April 30, 2016 and presented on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of April 30, 2016 $3.7 million and $6.2 million of net deferred financing costs as a non-current asset in the case of our Revolving Loan Facility and a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the non-current portion of the long-term debt related to our Term Loan Facility. FASB ASU No. 2015-05 which provides guidance to customers about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any material impact on our consolidated financial statements. FASB ASU No. 2015-07 which removes the requirements to categorize within the fair value hierarchy, and make certain disclosures related to, investments for which fair value is measured using the net asset value per share practical expedient. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2015-16 which requires an acquirer to recognize adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. We adopted this ASU as of February 1, 2016 and will apply this ASU to our accounting for the TCS acquisition, which was completed on February 23, 2016. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any immediate impact on our consolidated financial statements, including disclosures. 50 Index FASB ASU No. 2015-17 which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a statement of financial position. As discussed further in Note (12) - " Income Taxes " included in Part I Item 1. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we adopted this ASU prospectively on August 1, 2015 and reclassified our net deferred tax assets and liabilities to the net non-current deferred tax asset in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet beginning as of October 31, 2015. No prior periods were retrospectively adjusted. In addition, the following FASB ASUs have been issued and incorporated into the ASC and have not yet been adopted by us as of April 30, 2016 : FASB ASU No. 2014-09, issued in May 2014, which replaces numerous requirements in U.S. GAAP, including industry-specific requirements, and provides a single revenue recognition model for contracts with customers. The core principle of the new standard is that a company should record revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, ASU No. 2015-14 was issued to defer the effective date of ASU No. 2014-09 by one year. As a result, ASU No. 2014-09 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2018), and can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. Early adoption is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2017). We are evaluating which transition approach to use and the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements, including financial reporting and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2014-12, issued in June 2014, which requires that a performance target which affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant-date fair value of the award at the grant date. This ASU is effective in our first quarter of fiscal 2017, and can be adopted either (a) prospectively to all awards granted or modified after the effective date, or (b) retrospectively to all awards with performance targets that are outstanding as of the beginning of the earliest annual period presented in the financial statements and to all new or modified awards thereafter. As we currently do not have share-based awards outstanding with a performance target that could be achieved after the requisite service period, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. FASB ASU No. 2014-15, issued in August 2014, which provides guidance about management's responsibility to evaluate whether there is a substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. This ASU is effective for the annual period ending after December 15, 2016 (our fiscal year ending on July 31, 2017). Early adoption is permitted. As we currently do not believe that there is a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. FASB ASU No. 2015-11, issued in July 2015, which simplifies the guidance on the subsequent measurement of inventory other than inventory measured using the last-in, first out or the retail inventory method. This ASU requires in-scope inventory to be subsequently measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value, the latter of which is defined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those fiscal years (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2017), and should be applied prospectively with earlier adoption permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements. FASB ASU No. 2016-01, issued January 2016, is an update to ASC 825 " Financial Instruments " and changes the treatment for available for sale equity investments by recognizing unrealized fair value changes directly in net income, and no longer in other comprehensive income. In addition, the impairment assessment of equity securities without readily determinable fair values is simplified by allowing a qualitative assessment. The ASU eliminates the disclosure requirement of methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value for financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet. Additional disclosure of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form is also required. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2018), including interim periods within those fiscal years and should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. Early adoption of the provisions affecting us is not permitted. As we currently do not hold investments in available for sale securities, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. 51 Index FASB ASU No. 2016-02, issued in February 2016, which requires lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases): (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee's obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee's right to use a specified asset for the lease term. Under the new guidance, lessor accounting is largely unchanged. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years (our fiscal year beginning in August 1, 2019) and should be applied with a modified retrospective approach with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2016-09, issued in March 2016, which relates to the accounting for forfeitures, employer tax withholding on share-based compensation and the financial statement presentation of excess tax benefits or deficiencies. This ASU also clarifies the statement of cash flows presentation for certain components of share-based awards. The effective date for the standard is for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2017). Early adoption is permitted. We are currently assessing the timing of adoption of this ASU and the impact it will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.