ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, information relating to our future performance and financial condition, plans and objectives of our management and our assumptions regarding such future performance, financial condition, and plans and objectives that involve certain significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors not under our control which may cause our actual results, future performance and financial condition, and achievement of our plans and objectives to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: the risk that Comtech will be unsuccessful in implementing a tactical shift in its Government Solutions segment away from bidding on large commodity service contracts and toward pursuing contracts for its niche products with higher margins; the nature and timing of receipt of, and our performance on, new or existing orders that can cause significant fluctuations in net sales and operating results; the timing and funding of government contracts; adjustments to gross profits on long-term contracts; risks associated with international sales; rapid technological change; evolving industry standards; new product announcements and enhancements, including the risks associated with Comtech's recent launch of Heights TM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS"); changing customer demands; changes in prevailing economic and political conditions; changes in the price of oil in global markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with Comtech's and TCS's legacy legal proceedings, customer claims for indemnification, and other similar matters; risks associated with our obligations under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended; risks associated with our large contracts; the impacts of any potential reform of the Internal Revenue Code which is currently being debated amongst members of the U.S. Presidential administration and Congress; and other factors described in this and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). OVERVIEW We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide. Our solutions fulfill our customers needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial. We manage our business through two reportable operating segments: Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs. This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment. We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as messaging and trusted location-based technologies). Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems. We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)) ongoing network operation and management support services (including telecom expense management, project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices). 25 Index Our Quarterly Financial Information Quarterly and period-to-period sales and operating results may be significantly affected by either short-term or long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, our gross profit is affected by a variety of factors, including the mix of products, systems and services sold, production efficiencies, estimates of warranty expense, price competition and general economic conditions. Our gross profit may also be affected by the impact of any cumulative adjustments to contracts that are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method. Our contracts with the U.S. government can be terminated for convenience by it at any time and orders are subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. Some of these contracts are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts and, as such, the U.S. government is not obligated to purchase any equipment or services under these contracts. We have, in the past, experienced and we continue to expect significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period. As such, comparisons between periods and our current results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each. Revenue Recognition. We earn revenue from the sale of advanced communication solutions to customers around the world. Sales of advanced communication solutions can consist of any one or a combination of items required by our customer including hardware, technology platforms and related support. A large portion of our revenue from advanced communication solutions is derived from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyers specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts and is recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605-35. For these contracts, we primarily apply the percentage-of-completion accounting method and generally recognize revenue based on the relationship of total costs incurred to total projected costs, or, alternatively, based on output measures, such as units delivered or produced. Profits expected to be realized on such contracts are based on total estimated sales for the contract compared to total estimated costs, including warranty costs, at completion of the contract. Direct costs which include materials, labor and overhead are charged to work-in-progress (including our contracts-in-progress) inventory or cost of sales. Indirect costs relating to long-term contracts, which include expenses such as general and administrative, are charged to expense as incurred and are not included in our work-in-process (including our contracts-in-progress) inventory or cost of sales. Total estimates are reviewed and revised periodically throughout the lives of the contracts, and adjustments to profits resulting from such revisions are made cumulative to the date of the change. Estimated losses on long-term contracts are recorded in the period in which the losses become evident. Long-term U.S. government cost-reimbursable type contracts are also specifically covered by FASB ASC 605-35. We have been engaged in the production and delivery of goods and services on a continual basis under contractual arrangements for many years. Historically, we have demonstrated an ability to accurately estimate total revenues and total expenses relating to our long-term contracts. However, there exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating revenues, expenses and progress toward completion, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. If we do not accurately estimate the total sales, related costs and progress towards completion on such contracts, the estimated gross margins may be significantly impacted or losses may need to be recognized in future periods. Any such resulting changes in margins or contract losses could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, most government contracts have termination for convenience clauses that provide the customer with the right to terminate the contract at any time. Such terminations could impact the assumptions regarding total contract revenues and expenses utilized in recognizing profit under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Changes to these assumptions could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have not experienced material terminations of our long-term contracts. We also address customer acceptance provisions in assessing our ability to perform our contractual obligations under long-term contracts. Our inability to perform on our long-term contracts could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have been able to perform on our long-term contracts. 26 Index We also derive a portion of our revenues for advanced communication solutions from contracts and purchase orders where revenue is recorded on delivery of products or performance of services. Such revenues are recognized in accordance with the authoritative guidance contained in FASB ASC 605-25 "Revenue Recognition - Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements" ("FASB ASC 605-25") and, as applicable, FASB ASC 605-20 "Revenue Recognition - Services" ("FASB ASC 605-20") and Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2009-14 (FASB ASC Topic 985) "Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements." Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment to determine if multiple elements exist, whether elements can be accounted for as separate units of accounting, and if so, the fair value for each of the elements. In summary, we recognize revenue for each separate unit of accounting when the applicable revenue recognition criteria for each element have been met. We allocate revenue to each separate unit of accounting in a multi-element arrangement based on the relative fair value of each element, using vendor-specific objective evidence ("VSOE") of their fair values, if available. VSOE is generally determined based on the price charged when an element is sold separately. In the absence of VSOE of fair value, the fee is allocated among each element based on third-party evidence ("TPE") of fair value, which is determined based on competitor pricing for similar deliverables when sold separately. When we are unable to establish fair value using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price ("ESP") to allocate value to each element. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold separately. We determine ESP for deliverables by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, prices we charge for similar offerings, market conditions, competitive landscape, and pricing practices. For multiple element arrangements that contain only software and software-related elements, we allocate the fees to each element based on the VSOE of fair value of each element. Due to the nature of some of the agreements it may be difficult to establish VSOE of separate elements of an agreement; in these circumstances the appropriate recognition of revenue may require the use of judgment based on the particular facts and circumstances. Adoption of New Revenue Standard On August 1, 2018 (our first quarter of fiscal 2019), we are required to adopt FASB ASU No. 2014-09 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)," which replaces numerous requirements in U.S. GAAP, including industry specific requirements, and provides a single revenue recognition model for contracts with customers. The core principle of the new standard is that a company should record revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, FASB ASU No. 2015-14 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date" was issued to defer the effective date of FASB ASU No. 2014-09 by one year. In March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and February 2017, FASB ASU Nos. 2016-08 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal Versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross Versus Net)," 2016-10 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing," 2016-12 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients" and 2017-05 "Other Income - Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets (Subtopic 610-20): Clarifying the Scope of Asset Derecognition Guidance and Accounting for Partial Sales of Nonfinancial Assets" were issued, respectively, to clarify certain implementation matters related to the new revenue standard. The effective dates for these ASUs coincide with the effective date of FASB ASU 2014-09. FASB ASU No. 2014-09 can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. Because of the broad scope of FASB ASU No. 2014-09, it could impact the reporting of the amount and/or timing of our net sales and operating income across our two operating segments, as well as related business processes and IT systems. We have formed a project team to perform a detailed evaluation of the operational impact of this new standard, which transition approach to use and the overall adoption impact on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. We expect our evaluation to be completed shortly before our first quarter of fiscal 2019. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . As of October 31, 2017 , total goodwill recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $290.6 million (of which $231.4 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $59.2 million relates to our Government Solutions segment). Additionally, as of October 31, 2017 , net intangibles recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $256.6 million (of which $212.3 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $44.3 million relates to our Government Solutions segment). Each of our two operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions in determining their estimated fair values. In accordance with FASB ASC 350 Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods. If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), pursuant to our adoption of FASB ASU No. 2017-04 in fiscal 2017, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. 27 Index On August 1, 2017 (the first day of our fiscal 2018 ), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value. In making this assessment, we considered, among other things, expectations of projected net sales and cash flows, assumptions impacting the weighted average cost of capital, trends in trading multiples of comparable companies, changes in our stock price and changes in the carrying values of our reporting units with goodwill. We also considered overall business conditions. In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches. The income approach, also known as the discounted cash flow ("DCF") method, utilizes the present value of cash flows to estimate fair value. The future cash flows for our reporting units were projected based on our estimates, at that time, of future revenues, operating income and other factors (such as working capital and capital expenditures). For purposes of conducting our impairment analysis, we assumed revenue growth rates and cash flow projections that are below our actual long-term expectations. The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows). A terminal value growth rate was applied to the final year of the projected period and reflected our estimate of stable, perpetual growth. We then calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each reporting unit to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach. Under the market approach, we estimated a fair value based on comparable companies' market multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and factored in a control premium. Finally, we compared our estimates of fair values to our August 1, 2017 total public market capitalization and assessed implied control premiums based on our common stock price of $18.47 as of August 1, 2017 . Based on our quantitative evaluation, we determined that our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 17.8% and 52.9% , respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and that neither of our two reporting units was at risk of failing the quantitative assessment. However, in order to sensitize our goodwill impairment test, we performed a second analysis using only the income approach and concluded that neither reporting units' goodwill was impaired or at risk of failing the quantitative assessment. It is possible that, during fiscal 2018 or beyond, business conditions (both in the U.S. and internationally) could deteriorate from the current state, our current or prospective customers could materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we currently anticipate, or our common stock price could decline. A significant decline in our customers' spending that is greater than we anticipate or a shift in funding priorities may also have a negative effect on future orders, sales, income and cash flows and we might be required to perform a quantitative assessment during fiscal 2018 or beyond. If assumed net sales and cash flow projections are not achieved in future periods or our common stock price significantly declines from current levels, our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units could be at risk of failing the quantitative assessment and goodwill assigned to the respective reporting units could be impaired. In any event, we are required to perform the next annual goodwill impairment analysis on August 1, 2018 (the start of our fiscal 2019). If our assumptions and related estimates change in the future, or if we change our reporting unit structure or other events and circumstances change (e.g., a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock (considered on both absolute terms and relative to peers)), we may be required to record impairment charges when we perform these tests, or in other future periods. In addition to our impairment analysis of goodwill, we also review net intangible assets with finite lives when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. We believe that the carrying values of our net intangible assets were recoverable as of October 31, 2017. Any impairment charges that we may record in the future could be material to our results of operation and financial condition. Provision for Warranty Obligations. We provide warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long-term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment. We record a liability for estimated warranty expense based on historical claims, product failure rates and other factors. Costs associated with some of our warranties that are provided under long-term contracts are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs. There exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating warranty expenses, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. If we do not accurately estimate our warranty costs, any changes to our original estimates could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Accounting for Income Taxes. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Our provision for income taxes is based on domestic (including federal and state) and international statutory income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions where we operate, permanent differences between financial reporting and tax reporting and available credits and incentives. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. The U.S. federal government is our most significant income tax jurisdiction. 28 Index Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and tax positions. We may be challenged upon review by the applicable taxing authority and positions taken by us may not be sustained. We recognize all or a portion of the benefit of income tax positions only when we have made a determination that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, based upon the technical merits of the position and other factors. For tax positions that are determined as more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, the tax benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The development of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and reserves for income tax positions requires consideration of timing and judgments about future taxable income, tax issues and potential outcomes, and are subjective critical estimates. A portion of our deferred tax assets consist of federal net operating losses and federal research and experimentation tax credit carryforwards, most of which was acquired in connection with our acquisition of TCS. No valuation allowance has been established on these deferred tax assets based on our evaluation that our ability to realize such assets has met the criteria of more likely than not. We continuously evaluate additional facts representing positive and negative evidence in determining our ability to realize these deferred tax assets. In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In November 2017, we received notification from the IRS that it will audit our Federal income tax return for fiscal 2016. Our Federal income tax return for fiscal 2015 is also subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2013 are subject to audit. TCSs Federal income tax returns for tax years 2014 and 2015 and the tax period from January 1, 2016 to February 23, 2016 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of TCSs state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2013 are subject to audit. The results of the IRS tax audit for fiscal 2016, future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Research and Development Costs. We generally expense all research and development costs. Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other personnel-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs. Costs incurred internally in researching and developing software to be sold are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the software. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. Technological feasibility for our advanced communication software solutions is generally reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to customers and when we are able to validate the marketability of such product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. To date, we have not capitalized any of our internally developed software costs. Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends. Other factors may also influence our provision, including decisions to exit a product line, technological change and new product development. These factors could result in a change in the amount of excess and obsolete inventory on hand. Additionally, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory was overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charge could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We perform credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness, as determined by our review of our customers current credit information. Generally, we will require cash in advance or payment secured by irrevocable letters of credit before an order is accepted from an international customer that we do not do business with regularly. In addition, we seek to obtain insurance for certain domestic and international customers. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. Because of our strong cash position and the nominal amount of interest we are earning on our cash and cash equivalents, we have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio. Our overall credit losses have historically been within our expectations of the allowances established; however, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have in the past. Measurement of credit losses requires consideration of historical loss experience, including the need to adjust for changing business conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates and the financial health of specific customers. Changes to the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. 29 Index Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2018 is off to a good start, with first quarter results exceeding our expectations. We generated consolidated: Net sales of $121.6 million ; Operating income of $0.2 million ; Net loss of $1.7 million ; Cash flows from operating activities of $6.5 million ; and Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure discussed below) of $9.6 million . During the three months ended October 31, 2017 , we received a number of large strategic contract awards including an aggregate of $96.2 million of contracts from AT&T, which provide for a variety of safety and security technology and enterprise technology solutions including Next Generation 911 ("NG911") public safety Call Handling and Emergency Services IP Network ("ESInet") and wireless enhanced 911 ("E911") solutions. We also entered into a favorable warranty settlement with AT&T that resulted in a $0.7 million benefit to operating income during the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Overall, we experienced strong order flow across many of our product lines, achieved a consolidated book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) of 1.36 and finished the quarter with consolidated backlog of $490.4 million. Looking forward, we still have a number of other large opportunities in our pipeline and anticipate that our strong growth prospects will drive an increase in consolidated net sales in fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017. In light of our expected sales growth and current spending plans, we are targeting to achieve operating income, as a percentage of our consolidated net sales, in the range of 4.0% to 5.0% in fiscal 2018, which compares favorably with the 3.3% of consolidated net sales we achieved in fiscal 2017 (excluding certain favorable adjustments, which are fully discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, as filed with the SEC). Given the difficulty of predicting the timing of potential contract awards and the absence in fiscal 2018 of $6.7 million of intellectual property license fees (that we earned in fiscal 2017 supporting the U.S. Army Blue Force Tracking Program), we believe it to be prudent to continue to target Adjusted EBITDA in a range comparable to the $70.7 million we achieved in fiscal 2017 and are currently targeting fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be comparable to the 12.8% we achieved in fiscal 2017. If order flow remains strong and we are able to achieve all of our fiscal 2018 business goals, it is possible that Adjusted EBITDA in fiscal 2018 could exceed the $70.7 million achieved in fiscal 2017. Based on the anticipated timing of shipments and performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the timing of expected new orders, net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 are expected to be slightly higher than the level we achieved in our most recent quarter but lower than the second quarter of fiscal 2017. In line with our original Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018, given the straight-line amortization expense associated with intangible assets with finite lives, on a GAAP basis, we expect to report an operating loss and net loss in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, with each of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2018 achieving operating income and net income. Despite the absence of the $0.7 million favorable warranty settlement, Adjusted EBITDA for our second quarter of fiscal 2018 is expected to approximate the $9.6 million we achieved in our first quarter of fiscal 2018. Our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 is expected to be the peak quarter - by far - for consolidated net sales, GAAP operating income, GAAP net income and Adjusted EBITDA. For a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA, see Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 - Adjusted EBITDA. On December 6, 2017 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on February 16, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 17, 2018 . Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, as well as Board approval. Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018 depends, in large part, on the receipt of and performance on orders from our customers, and could be adversely impacted if business conditions deteriorate or our current or prospective customers materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services. Additional information related to our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018 is included in the below section entitled Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended October 31, 2017 and October 31, 2016. 30 Index COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2017 AND OCTOBER 31, 2016 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $121.6 million and $135.8 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, representing a decrease of $14.2 million, or 10.5% . The period-over-period decrease in net sales was almost entirely due to lower sales in our Government Solutions segment. Net sales by operating segment are discussed below. Commercial Solutions Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were $76.1 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 , as compared to $76.2 million for the three months ended October 31, 2016 , a decrease of $0.1 million, or 0.1% . Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 62.6% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended October 31, 2017 as compared to 56.1% for the three months ended October 31, 2016 . Bookings during our most recent fiscal quarter were strong. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) in this segment for the three months ended October 31, 2017 was 1.48 . As further discussed below, we have a growing pipeline of opportunities and expect that the book-to-bill ratio in this segment will exceed 1.00 for fiscal 2018. Net sales of our satellite earth station products (which include satellite modems and solid-state power amplifiers (SSPAs)) during the three months ended October 31, 2017 were up slightly as compared to the net sales we achieved during the three months ended October 31, 2016. Market conditions overall for this product line appear to be improving and bookings during our most recent fiscal quarter were significantly higher than our first quarter of fiscal 2017. We are seeing increased interest from U.S. government customers for our satellite earth station products and believe sales to U.S. government customers will noticeably improve in fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017. For example, during the most recent fiscal quarter, we received a $7.7 million follow-on contract from a U.S. military integrator to supply high-power traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTAs") for an airborne strategic military program. Looking forward, we are expecting to receive a large contract from the U.S. Space and Naval Warfare System Command which publicly announced its intention to sole-source a five year, indefinite delivery / indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contract to procure our SLM-5650B satellite modems and upgrade kits. There are over eight-hundred older generation modems currently utilized by multiple Navy programs and our new modems and related upgrade kits will meet critical Navy requirements. We believe no other competitor responded to the Navys Request for Proposal ("RFP") and we are expecting to receive a contract award in fiscal 2018, with related shipments occurring in the latter part of the second half of fiscal 2018. Net sales of our satellite earth station products are expected to benefit in fiscal 2018 from anticipated orders for our newly introduced Heights TM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS"). HEIGHTS is a potentially revolutionary technology designed to deliver the highest Internet Protocol bits per Hertz in its class, as well as robust reliability. HEIGHTS has been and will continue to be a cornerstone of our future research and development efforts. To-date, we have announced several important customer wins for this product line and our pipeline of opportunities is growing. Additionally, sales of our SSPAs used in airborne, in-flight connectivity applications are expected to remain strong. Net sales during the three months ended October 31, 2017 of both enterprise technology solutions (such as our location and messaging platforms) and safety and security technology solutions (such as our wireless and next generation 911 (NG911) platforms) were down slightly as compared to the net sales we achieved during the three months ended October 31, 2016. However, overall market conditions for these products remain favorable and, during the three months ended October 31, 2017, we were awarded several large multi-year contracts from AT&T, with an aggregate value of $96.2 million and initial funding of $26.0 million. In addition, we were awarded an $8.4 million twelve-month contract renewal for a location-based application from a key Fortune 100 customer, for which work has already begun. We continue to bid on a number of large opportunities and, although the extent and timing of these contract awards are difficult to predict, we expect to receive additional large orders in fiscal 2018 and to achieve net sales of these solutions in fiscal 2018 that are higher than in fiscal 2017. Overall, we expect fiscal 2018 net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment to be higher than fiscal 2017. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Commercial Solutions segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Government Solutions Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $45.5 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 as compared to $59.6 million for the three months ended October 31, 2016 , a decrease of $14.1 million, or 23.7% . Our Government Solutions segment represented 37.4% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended October 31, 2017 , as compared to 43.8% for the three months ended October 31, 2016 . 31 Index The expected period-over-period decrease in net sales primarily reflects: (i) significantly lower sales of over-the-horizon microwave products; (ii) the impact of our tactical shift in strategy away from bidding on large commodity service contracts and toward pursuing contracts for our niche solutions with higher margins; and (iii) the absence of $2.5 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees during the most recent fiscal quarter. Both periods include a similar level of sales of high-power broadband amplifiers. The period-to-period sales decline of over-the-horizon microwave products resulted from the completion of performance related to previously awarded contracts and a lengthy sales cycle for new potential orders. Although we are involved in discussions and negotiations related to several large international over-the-horizon microwave systems opportunities, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018 includes a nominal amount of revenues from these potential awards. Despite the absence of large over-the-horizon microwave systems bookings during our most recent fiscal quarter, overall bookings for our Government Solutions segment were strong. During the three months ended October 31, 2017 , we experienced strong demand for our command and control technology solutions. Backlog for our Government Solutions segment, as of October 31, 2017, was the highest level since our February 23, 2016 acquisition of TCS. We believe our current level of backlog demonstrates the tangible benefits of our tactical shift in strategy in this segment to focus on niche products with higher margins. If we receive the orders we are expecting in the second half of fiscal 2018, our backlog in the second half of fiscal 2018 could increase from current levels. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) in this segment for the three months ended October 31, 2017 was 1.17 . Although the timing of large contract awards makes it difficult to predict our book-to-bill ratio in any given period, as further discussed below, we have a growing pipeline of opportunities and expect a book-to-bill ratio in this segment slightly over 1.00 for fiscal 2018. Recent contract awards that are expected to contribute to fiscal 2018 net sales include: (i) a $23.8 million order from an international space agency; (ii) a $14.5 million contract modification to continue to provide Ku satellite bandwidth and support services for the U.S. Marine Corps' ("USMC") Tactical Satellite Communications Network; (iii) a $10.3 million contract modification to provide enhanced communications infrastructure for U.S. forces in the Central Command Area of Responsibility; (iv) funding of $7.7 million for BFT-1 sustainment support and a related contract valued at $4.2 million for BFT-1 aviation transceivers; (v) a separate $6.5 million contract from the Consortium Management Group ("CMG") to support the U.S. Army Project Manager Mission Command ("PM MC") and the Blue Force Tracking 2 ("BFT-2") program; (vi) a $7.5 million contract to supply troposcatter equipment to support U.S. Army activities throughout the Korean Peninsula; and (vii) initial funding of $4.6 million related to a contract with a major U.S. space contractor to source and test space components in support of a critical NASA program. Our pipeline of opportunities includes pending proposals on several large multi-year contracts, including a potential renewal of existing sustainment and retrofit services related to the U.S. Armys AN/TSC-198 family of communication systems that are commonly referred to as SNAP. In addition, we are bidding on several new programs. At the moment, given the difficulty of predicting the timing and amount of contract awards, the timing of performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the absence of $6.7 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees in fiscal 2018, we believe that it is prudent to expect fiscal 2018 net sales for our Government Solutions segment to be lower than fiscal 2017. In future years, we would expect revenue to increase from such levels. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Government Solutions segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our U.S. and international government customers. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Geography and Customer Type Sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of related sales, for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Three months ended October 31, 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Consolidated U.S. government 15.7 % 13.8 % 60.5 % 62.8 % 32.4 % 35.3 % Domestic 58.1 % 56.3 % 21.1 % 11.9 % 44.3 % 36.8 % Total U.S. 73.8 % 70.1 % 81.6 % 74.7 % 76.7 % 72.1 % International 26.2 % 29.9 % 18.4 % 25.3 % 23.3 % 27.9 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. 32 Index Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. Included in domestic sales, are sales to Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) which represented 11.7% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended October 31, 2017. Sales to Verizon were less than 10% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended October 31, 2016. International sales for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $28.3 million and $37.8 million , respectively. Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 . Gross Profit. Gross profit was $47.7 million and $52.1 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, representing a decrease of $4.4 million. This decrease in gross profit dollars was largely driven by lower net sales in our Government Solutions segment and the absence of $2.5 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, both of which are discussed above. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, increased from 38.4% for the three months ended October 31, 2016 to 39.3% for the three months ended October 31, 2017 . This increase in gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is largely attributable to a greater percentage of our consolidated net sales during the three months ended October 31, 2017 occurring in our Commercial Solutions segment, which historically achieves higher gross margins than our Government Solutions segment, as well as a favorable warranty settlement that resulted in a reduction of $0.7 million to cost of sales (which is reflected in our unallocated segment). Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below. Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended October 31, 2017 was higher than in the three months ended October 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily due to overall favorable product mix changes during the most recent fiscal quarter. We expect gross profit in our Commercial Solutions segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for fiscal 2018, to be comparable to the percentage achieved in fiscal 2017. Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended October 31, 2017 was significantly lower as compared to the three months ended October 31, 2016 . This decrease was primarily driven by significantly lower net sales in this segment as well as the absence of $2.5 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, as discussed above. Given the absence of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees in fiscal 2018, we expect gross profit in our Government Solutions segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be lower than the percentage achieved in fiscal 2017. Over-time, we believe the implementation of our strategy of shifting our Government Solutions segment away from bidding on large commodity service contracts and toward pursuing contracts for our niche solutions will result in higher gross margins in this segment. Included in consolidated cost of sales for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $0.7 million and $0.6 million , respectively. As discussed in Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory, we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage assumptions. Because our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each individual segment, it is inherently difficult to forecast. Nevertheless, based on expected bookings the anticipated timing of our performance on orders and the absence of the BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, we currently expect our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2018 to be slightly lower than the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2017. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $28.5 million and $32.7 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, representing a decrease of $4.2 million. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 23.4% and 24.1% for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The decrease in spending, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is primarily attributable to lower net sales, as discussed above, and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $0.7 million and $0.9 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. This decrease is primarily due to the reversal of $0.4 million of stock-based compensation expense related to certain performance shares that were previously expected to be earned. 33 Index Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2018 selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be comparable to fiscal 2017. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $13.8 million and $14.1 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, representing a decrease of $0.3 million, or 2.1% . As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 11.3% and 10.4% for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The increase in percentage of consolidated net sales is due primarily to the lower net sales during the most recent fiscal quarter, as discussed above. For the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , research and development expenses of $11.8 million and $11.7 million, respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment and $1.9 million and $2.3 million, respectively, related to our Government Solutions segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million for both the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , customers reimbursed us $4.3 million and $8.2 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses, but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Despite the period-to-period decrease in net sales, we continue to invest in enhancements to existing products as well as in new products across almost all of our product lines. Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2018 research and development expenses, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be comparable to fiscal 2017. Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $5.3 million (of which $4.4 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $0.8 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and $6.1 million (of which $4.5 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $1.6 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended October 31, 2016 . The decrease is a result of certain intangibles that became fully amortized in fiscal 2017. As such, we anticipate amortization of intangibles in fiscal 2018, in dollars, to be lower than in fiscal 2017. Operating Income (Loss). Operating income for the three months ended October 31, 2017 was $0.2 million as compared to a loss of $0.7 million for the three months ended October 31, 2016 . Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is shown in the table below: Three months ended October 31, 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Operating income (loss) $ 4.8 3.1 (0.6 ) 2.5 (3.9 ) (6.3 ) $ 0.2 (0.7 ) Percentage of related net sales 6.3 % 4.1 % (1.3 )% 4.2 % NA NA 0.2 % (0.5 )% The increase in our Commercial Solutions segments operating income, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is primarily due to overall favorable product mix changes during the most recent fiscal quarter and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above. We expect fiscal 2018 operating income in our Commercial Solutions segment, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to increase as compared to fiscal 2017. The expected operating loss in our Government Solutions segment during the three months ended October 31, 2017 was driven by significantly lower net sales, most notably lower over-the-horizon microwave systems sales and the absence of $2.5 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees, as discussed above. Given the expected timing of performance related to orders in our backlog and the timing of new orders we anticipate receiving during the latter part of the second half of fiscal 2018, we expect to report an operating loss in this segment for our second quarter of fiscal 2018. Overall, given the tactical shift in strategy in our Government Solutions segment away from bidding on large commodity service contracts and toward pursuing contracts for our niche solutions with higher margins, and the absence of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees in fiscal 2018, we anticipate operating income, in dollars, in this segment, to be slightly lower than fiscal 2017. However, given our focus on achieving higher margins, the favorable mix of anticipated orders we expect to receive, and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously taken, we expect operating income, as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be comparable to fiscal 2017. 34 Index Unallocated operating expenses for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 were $3.9 million and $6.3 million, respectively. The lower unallocated operating expenses during the three months ended October 31, 2017 primarily reflects cost reduction actions previously initiated. In addition, unallocated operating expenses during the three months ended October 31, 2017 reflect a favorable warranty settlement of $0.7 million (which is reflected as a reduction to cost of sales in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations). Unallocated expenses for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 include amortization of stock-based compensation of $0.7 million and $1.0 million , respectively. This decrease is primarily due to the reversal of $0.4 million of stock-based compensation expense related to certain performance shares that were previously expected to be earned. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense can fluctuate from period-to-period based on the type and timing of stock-based awards. Based on the type of awards currently outstanding and awards expected to be issued in future periods, total amortization of stock-based compensation is expected to be higher in fiscal 2018 than in fiscal 2017. Looking forward, our unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2018 are expected to significantly increase as compared to the $5.6 million of unallocated operating expenses for fiscal 2017. During fiscal 2017, unallocated operating expenses were offset by a number of favorable adjustments throughout the fiscal year, which aggregated $18.8 million and which are more fully discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, as filed with the SEC. Excluding the $18.8 million of favorable adjustments, unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2017 would have been $24.4 million. Given our expected sales growth on a consolidated basis in fiscal 2018 and current spending plans, our unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2018 are expected to be comparable to fiscal 2017 unallocated operating expenses of $24.4 million, prior to the favorable adjustments discussed above. On a consolidated basis, we are targeting to achieve operating income, as a percentage of our net sales, in the range of 4.0% to 5.0%. This range compares to 3.3% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 2017 (excluding the $18.8 million of favorable adjustments to operating income discussed above). In addition, based on the continued amortization of intangibles with finite lives and the timing of expected sales (most notably in our Government Solutions segment), we continue to expect an operating loss in our second quarter of fiscal 2018, with each of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2018 achieving operating income. Interest Expense. Interest expense was $2.6 million and $3.3 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The decline in interest expense primarily reflects lower total indebtedness, which declined from $262.0 million as of October 31, 2016 to $199.1 million as of October 31, 2017. Interest expense for both periods primarily reflects interest on our Secured Credit Facility, as amended. Based on the type, terms, amount of outstanding debt (including capital leases) and current interest rates, we estimate that our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) will approximate 5.0% in fiscal 2018. Our actual cash borrowing rate (which excludes the amortization of deferred financing costs) currently approximates 3.7%. Interest (Income) and Other. Interest (income) and other for both the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 was nominal. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding a blended annual interest rate of approximately 0.63% . Benefit From Income Taxes. The benefit from income taxes was $0.7 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 , as compared to $1.6 million for the three months ended October 31, 2016 and was primarily the result of operating losses reported in each period. Our effective tax rate was 31.0% for the three months ended October 31, 2017 , as compared to 38.6% for the three months ended October 31, 2016 . Our effective tax rate of 31.0% for the three months ended October 31, 2017 includes a discrete tax expense of less than $0.1 million which, pursuant to our adoption of ASU 2016-09 Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting on August 1, 2017, relates to the reversal of deferred tax assets associated with the settlement of stock-based awards during the most recent fiscal quarter. See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (12) - Stock-Based Compensation for more information. Our effective tax rate of 38.6% for the three months ended October 31, 2016 reflects a net discrete tax benefit of $0.3 million, primarily related to the reversal of certain tax contingencies no longer required due to the effective settlement with the IRS relating to its audit of our Federal income tax return for fiscal 2014. 35 Index Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2018, excluding all discrete tax items, is currently expected to approximate 34.5%. Our effective tax rate estimate of 34.5% does not include the impact of any potential reform of the Internal Revenue Code which is currently being debated amongst members of the U.S. Presidential administration and Congress. Proposals have included provisions, such as the lowering of the corporate tax rate and allowing the expensing of capital expenditures, that could be beneficial to us. Other proposals, however, such as the imposition of significant limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, could have an adverse effect on our future business activity. Because of the substantial uncertainty regarding both the timing and details of any such tax reform, the impact on our business is uncertain. In November 2017, we received notification from the IRS that it will audit our Federal income tax return for fiscal 2016. Our Federal income tax return for fiscal 2015 is also subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2013 are subject to audit. TCSs Federal income tax returns for tax years 2014 and 2015 and the tax period from January 1, 2016 to February 23, 2016 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of TCSs state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2013 are subject to audit. The results of the IRS tax audit for fiscal 2016, future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Net Loss. During the three months ended October 31, 2017 , consolidated net loss was $1.7 million as compared $2.5 million during the three months ended October 31, 2016 . Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) for both the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 are shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): Three months ended October 31, 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Net income (loss) $ 4.7 3.0 (0.6 ) 2.5 (5.7 ) (8.0 ) $ (1.7 ) (2.5 ) Benefit from income taxes (0.8 ) (1.6 ) (0.7 ) (1.6 ) Interest (income) and other expenses Interest expense 0.1 2.5 3.3 2.6 3.3 Amortization of stock-based compensation 0.7 1.0 0.7 1.0 Amortization of intangibles 4.4 4.4 0.8 1.6 5.3 6.1 Depreciation 2.4 2.6 0.6 0.8 0.3 0.4 3.3 3.7 Adjusted EBITDA $ 11.7 10.1 0.8 4.9 (2.9 ) (4.9 ) $ 9.6 10.0 Percentage of related net sales 15.3 % 13.3 % 1.8 % 8.2 % NA NA 7.9 % 7.4 % The $0.4 million decrease in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA during the three months ended October 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended October 31, 2016 is primarily attributable to lower consolidated net sales during the three months ended October 31, 2017 that was partially offset by favorable changes in overall product mix and the benefit of lower unallocated expenses, all of which are discussed above. The increase in our Commercial Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily attributable to favorable product mix changes in this segment during the most recent fiscal quarter and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above. The decrease in our Government Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily driven by lower net sales during the most recent fiscal quarter (most notably lower over-the-horizon microwave systems sales and the absence of $2.5 million of BFT-1 intellectual property license fees), as discussed above. 36 Index Looking forward, we anticipate that our strong growth prospects will drive an increase in consolidated net sales in fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017. In addition, despite the absence of $6.7 million of the BFT-1 intellectual property license fee in fiscal 2018, we are targeting Adjusted EBITDA in a range comparable to the $70.7 million we achieved in fiscal 2017 and we expect that fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, will be comparable to the 12.8% we achieved in fiscal 2017. If order flow remains strong and we are able to achieve all of our fiscal 2018 business goals, it is possible that Adjusted EBITDA in fiscal 2018 could exceed the $70.7 million achieved in fiscal 2017. A reconciliation of our fiscal 2017 GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA of $70.7 million is shown in the table below: ($ in millions) Fiscal Year 2017 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA: Net income $ 15.8 Income taxes 9.7 Interest (income) and other expense (0.1 ) Interest expense 11.6 Amortization of stock-based compensation 8.5 Amortization of intangibles 22.8 Depreciation 14.4 Settlement of intellectual property litigation (12.0 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 70.7 Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other expense, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses or strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts. We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies. These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the above table, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings. We have not quantitatively reconciled our fiscal 2018 Adjusted EBITDA target to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because items such as stock-based compensation, adjustments to the provision for income taxes, amortization of intangibles and interest expense, which are specific items that impact these measures, have not yet occurred, are out of our control, or cannot be predicted. For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable. Accordingly, reconciliations to the Non-GAAP forward looking metrics are not available without unreasonable effort and such unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our financial results. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our cash and cash equivalents increased to $42.5 million at October 31, 2017 from $41.8 million at July 31, 2017 , an increase of $0.7 million . The increase in cash and cash equivalents during the three months ended October 31, 2017 was driven by the following: Net cash provided by operating activities was $ 6.5 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 as compared to $ 7.8 million for the three months ended October 31, 2016 . The period-over-period decrease in cash flow from operating activities is attributable to overall changes in net working capital requirements, principally the timing of billings and payments. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended October 31, 2017 was $ 1.1 million as compared to $ 2.1 million for the three months ended October 31, 2016 . Both of these amounts primarily represent expenditures relating to ongoing equipment upgrades and enhancements. 37 Index Net cash used in financing activities was $ 4.7 million for the three months ended October 31, 2017 as compared to $9.8 million for the three months ended October 31, 2016 . During the three months ended October 31, 2017 , we received $6.4 million from net borrowings under our Revolving Loan Facility and made $7.9 million of principal repayments related to our Term Loan Facility and capital lease obligations. During the three months ended October 31, 2016 , we received $1.0 million from net borrowings under our Revolving Loan Facility and made $3.2 million of principal repayments related to our Term Loan Facility and capital lease obligations. During the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , we paid $2.5 million and $7.1 million , respectively, in cash dividends to our shareholders. We also made $1.0 million and $0.2 million , respectively, of payments to remit employees' statutory tax withholding requirements related to the net settlement of stock-based awards during the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 . Our investment policy relating to our cash and cash equivalents is intended to minimize principal loss while at the same time maximize the income we receive without significantly increasing risk. To minimize risk, we generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in money market mutual funds (both government and commercial), certificates of deposit, bank deposits, and U.S. Treasury securities. Many of our money market mutual funds invest in direct obligations of the U.S. government, bank securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, certificates of deposit and commercial paper and other securities issued by other companies. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we believe our investment policies are appropriate in the current environment. Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market. The Secured Credit Facility, as amended, is discussed below and in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (9) - Secured Credit Facility. As of October 31, 2017 , our material short-term cash requirements primarily consist of: (i) remaining fiscal 2018 mandatory principal repayments of $11.8 million associated with the Term Loan Facility and related interest payments of approximately $3.5 million, (ii) estimated interest payments for fiscal 2018 under our Revolving Loan Facility, (iii) capital lease obligations and operating lease commitments, (iv) our ongoing working capital needs, including income tax payments, and (v) accrued quarterly dividends. In June 2016, we sold 7.1 million shares of our common stock in a public offering at a price of $14.00 per share, resulting in proceeds to us of $95.0 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions. As of October 31, 2017 and December 6, 2017 , an aggregate registered amount of $75.0 million under our existing Shelf Registration Statement filed with the SEC remains available for sale of various types of securities, including debt. As of October 31, 2017 and December 6, 2017 , we were authorized to repurchase up to an additional $8.7 million of our common stock, pursuant to our current $100.0 million stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase program has no time restrictions and repurchases may be made in open-market or privately negotiated transactions and may be made pursuant to SEC Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. There were no repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 . On September 27, 2017 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, which was paid on November 17, 2017 . On December 6, 2017 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on February 16, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 17, 2018 . Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, as well as Board approval. Our material long-term cash requirements primarily consist of: (i) mandatory interest payments and principal repayments pursuant to our Secured Credit Facility, as amended; (ii) payments relating to our capital lease obligations and operating lease commitments; and (iii) cash payments of approximately $1.8 million related to our 2009 Radyne-related restructuring plan, including accreted interest as discussed in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (8) - Acquisition-Related Restructuring Plan. We continue to receive (and approve on a limited basis) requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. We also continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio and have not had material negative customer credit experiences historically. We have historically met both our short-term and long-term cash requirements with funds provided by a combination of cash and cash equivalent balances, cash generated from operating activities and cash generated from financing transactions. Based on our anticipated level of future sales and operating income, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalent balances, our cash generated from operating activities and amounts potentially available under the Revolving Loan Facility under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, will be sufficient to meet both our currently anticipated short-term and long-term operating cash requirements. 38 Index Although it is difficult in the current economic and credit environment to predict the terms and conditions of financing that may be available in the future, should our short-term or long-term cash requirements increase beyond our current expectations, we believe that we would have sufficient access to credit from financial institutions and/or financing from public and private debt and equity markets. Secured Credit Facility On February 23, 2016, in connection with our acquisition of TCS, we entered into a $400.0 million secured credit facility (the "Secured Credit Facility") with a syndicate of lenders. The Secured Credit Facility, as amended June 6, 2017 (the June 2017 Amendment), comprises a senior secured term loan A facility of $250.0 million (the Term Loan Facility) and a secured revolving loan facility of up to $150.0 million, including a $25.0 million letter of credit sublimit (the Revolving Loan Facility), and, together, with the Term Loan Facility, matures on February 23, 2021. The proceeds of these borrowings were primarily used to finance our acquisition of TCS, including the repayment of certain existing indebtedness of TCS. The Term Loan Facility requires mandatory quarterly repayments. During the three months ended October 31, 2017 and 2016 , we repaid $7.1 million and $2.2 million, respectively, principal amount of borrowings under the Term Loan Facility. Under the Revolving Loan Facility, we had outstanding balances ranging from $41.9 million to $63.8 million during three months ended October 31, 2017 . The Revolving Loan Facility is primarily used for working capital and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries, including the issuance of letters of credit. Borrowings under the Secured Credit Facility, pursuant to terms defined in the Secured Credit Facility, shall be either (i) Alternate Base Rate ("ABR") borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 0.50% per annum and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate on such day (or, if such day is not a business day, the immediately preceding business day) plus 1.00% per annum (provided that if the LIBO Rate is less than 1.00%, then the LIBO Rate shall be deemed to be 1.00%), plus (y) the Applicable Rate, or (ii) Eurodollar borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such interest period (provided that if the LIBO Rate is less than 1.00%, then the LIBO Rate shall be deemed to be 1.00%) plus (y) the Applicable Rate. The Applicable Rate is determined based on a pricing grid that is dependent upon our leverage ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter. The Secured Credit Facility contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants and customary negative covenants, subject to negotiated exceptions, on (i) liens, (ii) investments, (iii) indebtedness, (iv) significant corporate changes, including mergers and acquisitions, (v) dispositions, (vi) restricted payments, including stockholder dividends, and (vii) certain other restrictive agreements. The Secured Credit Facility also contains certain financial covenants and customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate), such as payment defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency, the occurrence of a defined change in control and the failure to observe the negative covenants and other covenants related to the operation of our business. The June 2017 Amendment is expected to result in increased operating and acquisition flexibility and simplify the calculations of our financial covenants. The June 2017 Amendment resulted in, among other things, that the: (i) Consolidated EBITDA definition more closely aligns with our Adjusted EBITDA metric by eliminating favorable adjustments to operating income related to settlements of TCS intellectual property matters; (ii) Leverage Ratio is calculated on a gross basis using the quotient of Total Indebtedness (excluding unamortized deferred financing costs) divided by our TTM Consolidated EBITDA. The prior Leverage Ratio was calculated on a net basis but did not include a reduction for any cash or cash equivalents above $50.0 million; (iii) Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio includes a deduction for all cash dividends, regardless of the amount of our cash and cash equivalents and the related allowable Quarterly Dividend Amount, as defined, will now align with our current quarterly dividend target of $0.10 per common share; (iv) Balloon or final payment of the Term Loan Facility (which is not due until February 23, 2021) was reduced by $22.5 million through increased borrowings from the Revolving Loan Facility (which does not expire until February 23, 2021); and (v) Leverage Ratios will be adjusted, in certain conditions, to provide for additional flexibility for us to make acquisitions. 39 Index In connection with the June 2017 Amendment, there were no changes to: (i) the committed borrowing capacity; (ii) the maturity date; or (iii) interest rates payable (except that the interest rate pricing grid will now be based on the new Leverage Ratio). Also, the June 2017 Amendment did not result in an extinguishment for accounting purposes (as such term is defined in ASC 470 Debt ); instead, the June 2017 Amendment was accounted for as a debt modification. As a result, deferred financing costs (including incremental fees for the June 2017 Amendment) will continue to be amortized over the remaining maturity term of the Secured Credit Facility. As of October 31, 2017, our Leverage Ratio was 2.83 x TTM Consolidated EBITDA compared to the maximum allowable Leverage Ratio of 3.50 x TTM Consolidated EBITDA. In fiscal 2018, the maximum allowable Leverage Ratio will decrease each quarter until reaching 3.00 x TTM Consolidated EBITDA in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, with no further reductions thereafter. Our Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio as of October 31, 2017 was 2.03 x compared to the minimum required Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of 1.25 x, which will not change for the remaining term of the Secured Credit Facility, as amended. Given our expected future business performance, we anticipate maintaining compliance with the terms and financial covenants in our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, for the foreseeable future. The obligations under the Secured Credit Facility, as amended, are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the "Subsidiary Guarantors"). As collateral security for amounts outstanding under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, and the guarantees thereof, we and our Subsidiary Guarantors have granted to an administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a lien on, and first priority security interest in, substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Secured Credit Facility, dated as of February 23, 2016, and the First Amendment of the Secured Credit Facility, dated as of June 6, 2017, both of which have been documented and filed with the SEC. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS As of October 31, 2017 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. COMMITMENTS In the normal course of business, other than as discussed below, we routinely enter into binding and non-binding purchase obligations primarily covering anticipated purchases of inventory and equipment. We do not expect that these commitments, as of October 31, 2017 , will materially adversely affect our liquidity. At October 31, 2017 , cash payments due under long-term obligations (including estimated interest expense on our Secured Credit Facility), excluding purchase orders that we entered into in our normal course of business, are as follows: Obligations Due by Fiscal Years or Maturity Date (in thousands) Total Remainder of 2018 2019 and 2020 2021 and 2022 After 2022 Secured Credit Facility - principal payments $ 195,757 11,832 34,422 149,503 Secured Credit Facility - interest payments 19,984 5,131 11,942 2,911 Operating lease commitments 42,923 9,037 16,481 9,550 7,855 Capital lease obligations 3,529 1,719 1,810 Net contractual cash obligations $ 262,193 27,719 64,655 161,964 7,855 As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (9) - Secured Credit Facility," on June 6, 2017, we entered into the June 2017 Amendment to our Secured Credit Facility. In connection with this amendment, the balloon or final payment of the Term Loan Facility, which is not due until February 23, 2021, was reduced by $22.5 million through increased borrowings from the Revolving Loan Facility which is not required to be repaid in full until February 23, 2021. As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (17) - Stockholders Equity, on December 6, 2017 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on February 16, 2018 to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 17, 2018 . Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, as well as Board approval. 40 Index At October 31, 2017 , we have approximately $3.0 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Secured Credit Facility, as amended, related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts. Such amounts are not included in the above table. During the three months ended October 31, 2017, we entered into a full and final warranty settlement with AT&T, the largest customer/distributor of a small product line that we refer to as the TCS 911 call handling software solution. AT&T had previously informed us that they did not believe we met certain contractual specifications related to performance and usability and had requested a refund of certain payments made by them. As discussed in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (7) - Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities, in addition to this settlement, we agreed to issue thirty-six credits to AT&T of $0.2 million which AT&T can apply on a monthly basis to purchases of solutions from us, beginning October 2017 through September 2020. As of October 31, 2017, the total present value of these monthly credits is $4.7 million, of which $1.5 million is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $3.2 million is reflected in other liabilities (non-current) on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. These amounts are not shown in the above commitment table. In the ordinary course of business, we include indemnification provisions in certain of our customer contracts. Pursuant to these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify, hold harmless and reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, including but not limited to losses related to third-party intellectual property claims. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these agreements due to a history of nominal claims in the Comtech legacy business and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As discussed further in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (18) - Legal Proceedings and Other Matters, " TCS is a party to one indemnification matter and we are incurring ongoing legal expenses in connection with this matter. Our insurance policies may not cover the cost of defending indemnification claims or providing indemnification. As a result, pending or future claims asserted against us by a party that we have agreed to indemnify could result in legal costs and damages that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We have change in control agreements, severance agreements and indemnification agreements with certain of our executive officers and certain key employees. All of these agreements may require payments by us, in certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in control of our Company or an involuntary termination of employment without cause. Our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 31, 2017 includes total liabilities of $8.9 million for uncertain tax positions, including interest, any or all of which may result in a cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of any potential cash settlement with the taxing authorities. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS We are required to prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) which is the source for all authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which is commonly referred to as GAAP. The FASB ASC is subject to updates by the FASB, which are known as Accounting Standards Updates (ASUs). As further discussed in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (2) - Adoption of Accounting Standards and Updates, during the three months ended October 31, 2017 , we adopted FASB ASU No. 2016-09, which amends several aspects of the accounting for and reporting of share-based payment transactions. Our adoption of this ASU, on August 1, 2017, did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statement - Note (12) - Stock-Based Compensation" for further information regarding our adoption of this ASU. 41 Index In addition, the following FASB ASUs have been issued and incorporated into the FASB ASC and have not yet been adopted by us as of October 31, 2017 : FASB ASU No. 2014-09 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)," issued in May 2014, which replaces numerous requirements in U.S. GAAP, including industry specific requirements, and provides a single revenue recognition model for contracts with customers. The core principle of the new standard is that a company should record revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, FASB ASU No. 2015-14 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date" was issued to defer the effective date of FASB ASU No. 2014-09 by one year. As a result, FASB ASU No. 2014-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2018), including interim reporting periods within those fiscal years and can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. Early adoption is permitted only as of fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2017), including interim reporting periods within those fiscal years. In March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and February 2017, FASB ASU 2016-08 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal Versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross Versus Net)," 2016-10 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing," 2016-12 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients" and 2017-05 "Other Income - Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets (Subtopic 610-20): Clarifying the Scope of Asset Derecognition Guidance and Accounting for Partial Sales of Nonfinancial Assets" were issued, respectively, to clarify certain implementation matters related to the new revenue standard. The effective dates for these ASUs coincide with the effective date of FASB ASU 2014-09. Because of the broad scope of FASB ASU No. 2014-09, it could impact the reporting of the amount and/or timing of our net sales and operating income across our two operating segments, as well as related business processes and IT systems. We have formed a project team to perform a detailed evaluation of the operational impact of this new standard, which transition approach to use and the overall adoption impact of FASB ASU No. 2014-09, on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. We expect our evaluation to be completed shortly before our first quarter of fiscal 2019. FASB ASU No. 2016-01, issued January 2016, which addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments, such as: amending the initial and subsequent measurement requirements for certain equity investments; eliminating the disclosure requirements related to the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet; requiring the use of the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes; and requiring separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset or liability on the balance sheet or the accompanying notes to the financial statements. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2018), including interim periods within those fiscal years and should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, except for the provisions related to equity securities without readily determinable fair values which are to be adopted prospectively. Under certain circumstances, early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2016-02, issued in February 2016, which requires lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases): (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee's obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee's right to use a specified asset for the lease term. Under the new guidance, lessor accounting is largely unchanged. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2019), including interim periods within those fiscal years and should be applied with a modified retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. 42 Index FASB ASU No. 2016-13, issued in June 2016, which requires the measurement of expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date to be based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020), including interim periods within those fiscal years. All entities may adopt the amendments in this ASU earlier as of the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Except for a prospective transition approach required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date, an entity will apply the amendments in this ASU through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective (that is, on a modified-retrospective approach). We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2016-15, issued in August 2016, which amends the guidance on the following cash flow related issues: debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs; settlement of zero-coupon and similar type debt instruments; contingent consideration payments made after a business combination; proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims (including those related to certain life insurance policies); distributions received from equity method investees; beneficial interests in securitization transactions; and cash receipts or payments with more than one class of cash flows. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2018), and interim periods within those fiscal years and shall be applied using the retrospective transition method to each period presented. Early adoption is permitted; however, all of the amendments must be adopted in the same period. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2016-16, issued in October 2016, which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory (for example, intellectual property and property, plant and equipment) when the transfer occurs. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2018), and interim periods within those fiscal years and shall be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2017-09, issued in May 2017, which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2018) and early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period for which financial statements have not yet been issued. This ASU should be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date of this ASU. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2017-11, issued in July 2017, which provides guidance on the accounting for certain financial instruments with embedded features that result in the strike price of the instrument or embedded conversion option being reduced on the basis of the pricing of future equity offerings (commonly referred to as "down round" features). This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2019) and early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. This ASU should be applied retrospectively in accordance with the provisions of the ASU. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.