ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, information relating to our future performance and financial condition, plans and objectives of our management and our assumptions regarding such future performance, financial condition, and plans and objectives that involve certain significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors not under our control which may cause our actual results, future performance and financial condition, and achievement of our plans and objectives to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: the risk that the acquisitions of Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd. ("Gilat") and UHP Networks Inc. and its sister company (together, "UHP") may not be consummated for reasons including that the conditions precedent to the completion of these acquisitions may not be satisfied or the occurrence of any event, change or circumstance could give rise to the termination of the agreements; the risk that the regulatory approvals will not be obtained; the possibility that the expected synergies from recent or pending acquisitions will not be fully realized, or will not be realized within the anticipated time periods; the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated with Comtech successfully; the possibility of disruption from recent or pending acquisitions, making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships or retain key personnel; the risk that Comtech will be unsuccessful in implementing a tactical shift in its Government Solutions segment away from bidding on large commodity service contracts and toward pursuing contracts for its niche products with higher margins; the nature and timing of our receipt of, and our performance on, new or existing orders that can cause significant fluctuations in net sales and operating results; the timing and funding of government contracts; adjustments to gross profits on long-term contracts; risks associated with international sales; rapid technological change; evolving industry standards; new product announcements and enhancements, including the risks associated with expanding sales of Comtech's Heights TM Network Platform ("HEIGHTS"); changing customer demands and or procurement strategies; changes in prevailing economic and political conditions; changes in the price of oil in global markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with Comtech's legal proceedings, customer claims for indemnification, and other similar matters; risks associated with our obligations under our Credit Facility; risks associated with our large contracts; risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic; and other factors described in this and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). OVERVIEW We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide. Our solutions fulfill our customers' needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial. We manage our business through two reportable operating segments: Commercial Solutions - offers satellite ground station technologies (such as modems and amplifiers) and public safety and location technologies (such as 911 call routing and mapping solutions) to commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments. This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment. Government Solutions - provides mission-critical technologies (such as tactical satellite-based networks and ongoing support for complicated communication networks) and high-performance transmission technologies (such as troposcatter systems and solid-state, high-power amplifiers) to large government end-users (including those of foreign countries), large international customers and domestic prime contractors. 36 Index In fiscal 2020, we rebranded our operating segment product groups to better align with our end markets. Prior descriptions of these product lines were updated to reflect such changes. Our Quarterly Financial Information Quarterly and period-to-period sales and operating results may be significantly affected by either short-term or long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, our gross profit is affected by a variety of factors, including the mix of products, systems and services sold, production efficiencies, estimates of warranty expense, price competition and general economic conditions. Our gross profit may also be affected by the impact of any cumulative adjustments to contracts that are accounted for over time. Our contracts with the U.S. government can be terminated for convenience by it at any time and orders are subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. Some of these contracts are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts and, as such, the U.S. government is not obligated to purchase any equipment or services under these contracts. We have, in the past, experienced and we continue to expect significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period. As such, comparisons between periods and our current results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each. Revenue Recognition. In accordance with FASB ASC 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606"), we record revenue in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for goods or services promised to customers. Under ASC 606, we follow a five-step model to: (1) identify the contract with our customer; (2) identify our performance obligations in our contract; (3) determine the transaction price for our contract; (4) allocate the transaction price to our performance obligations; and (5) recognize revenue using one of the following two methods: Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance. This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyers specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts). Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process. Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations. The selection of the method to measure progress requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services provided. In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs. Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. Costs to fulfill generally include direct labor, materials, subcontractor costs, other direct costs and an allocation of indirect costs. When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided. As a result, these modifications form part of an existing contract and we must update the transaction price and our measure of progress for the single performance obligation and recognize a cumulative catch-up to revenue and gross profits. For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations. This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment. Additionally, if the EAC process indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period that it becomes evident. Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly. 37 Index The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our mission-critical technologies and high-performance transmission technologies product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line. For service-based contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line, we recognize revenue over time. These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide. Point in time - When a performance obligation is not satisfied over time, we must record revenue using the point in time accounting method which generally results in revenue being recognized upon shipment or delivery of a promised good or service to a customer. This generally occurs when we enter into short-term contracts or purchase orders where items are provided to customers with relatively quick turn-around times. Modifications to such contracts and or purchase orders, which typically provide for additional quantities or services, are accounted for as a new contract because the pricing for these additional quantities or services are based on standalone selling prices. Point in time accounting is principally applied to contracts in our satellite ground station technologies product line (which includes satellite modems, solid-state and traveling wave tube amplifiers) and certain contracts for our solid-state, high-power amplifiers in our high-performance transmission technologies product line. Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our mission-critical technologies product line. The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery. In determining that our equipment has alternative use, we considered the underlying manufacturing process for our products. In the early phases of manufacturing, raw materials and work in process (including subassemblies) consist of common parts that are highly fungible among many different types of products and customer applications. Finished products are either configured to our standard configuration or based on our customers specifications. Finished products, whether built to our standard specification or to a customers specification, can be sold to a variety of customers and across many different end use applications with minimal rework, if needed, and without incurring a significant economic loss. When identifying a contract with our customer, we consider when it has approval and commitment from both parties, if the rights of the parties are identified, if the payment terms are identified, if it has commercial substance and if collectability is probable. When identifying performance obligations, we consider whether there are multiple promises and how to account for them. In our contracts, multiple promises are separated if they are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract. If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined into a single performance obligation. In some cases, we may also provide the customer with an additional service-type warranty, which we recognize as a separate performance obligation. Service-type warranties do not represent a significant portion of our consolidated net sales. When service-type warranties represent a separate performance obligation, the revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the extended warranty period. Our contracts, from time-to-time, may also include options for additional goods and services. To date, these options have not represented material rights to the customer as the pricing for them reflects standalone selling prices. As a result, we do not consider options we offer to be performance obligations for which we must allocate a portion of the transaction price. In many cases, we provide assurance-type warranty coverage for some of our products for a period of at least one year from the date of delivery. When identifying the transaction price, we typically utilize the contract's stated price as a starting point. The transaction price in certain arrangements may include estimated amounts of variable consideration, including award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. We estimate variable consideration as the amount to which we expect to be entitled, and we include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the estimation uncertainty is resolved. The estimation of this variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (e.g., historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available to us. 38 Index When allocating the contracts transaction price, we consider each distinct performance obligation. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contracts transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, internal costs, profit objectives and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations. Almost all of our contracts with customers are denominated in U.S. dollars and typically are either firm fixed-price or cost reimbursable type contracts (including fixed-fee, incentive-fee and time-and-material type contracts). In almost all of our contracts with customers, we are the principal in the arrangement and report revenue on a gross basis. Transaction prices for contracts with U.S. domestic and international customers are usually based on specific negotiations with each customer and in the case of the U.S. government, sometimes based on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services in accordance with applicable regulations. The timing of revenue recognition, billings and collections results in receivables, unbilled receivables and contract liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for over time, amounts are billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals (e.g., monthly) or upon achievement of contractual milestones. For certain contracts with provisions that are intended to protect customers in the event we do not satisfy our performance obligations, billings occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in unbilled receivables. Under ASC 606, unbilled receivables constitute contract assets. On large long-term contracts, and for contracts with international customers that do not do business with us regularly, payment terms typically require advanced payments and deposits. Under ASC 606, payments received from customers in excess of revenue recognized to date results in a contract liability. These contract liabilities are not considered to represent a significant financing component of the contract because we believe these cash advances and deposits are generally used to meet working capital demands which can be higher in the earlier stages of a contract. Also, advanced payments and deposits provide us with some measure of assurance that the customer will perform on its obligations under the contract. Under the typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for at a point in time, costs are accumulated in inventory until the time of billing, which generally coincides with revenue recognition. We recognize the incremental costs to obtain or fulfill a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset is one year or less. Incremental costs to obtain or fulfill contracts with an amortization period greater than one year were not material. As commissions payable to our internal sales and marketing employees or contractors are contingent upon multiple factors, such commissions are not considered direct costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and are expensed as incurred in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As for commissions payable to our third-party sales representatives related to large long-term contracts, we do consider these types of commissions both direct and incremental costs to obtain and fulfill such contracts. Therefore, such types of commissions are included in total estimated costs at completion for such contracts and expensed over time through cost of sales on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which work has not been performed as of the end of a fiscal period. Remaining performance obligations, which we refer to as backlog, exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under indefinite delivery / indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . As of April 30, 2020 , total goodwill recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $335.5 million (of which $255.4 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $80.1 million relates to our Government Solutions segment). Additionally, as of April 30, 2020 , net intangibles recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $260.2 million (of which $212.4 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $47.8 million relates to our Government Solutions segment). Each of our two operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions in determining their estimated fair values. In accordance with FASB ASC 350 " Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods. If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. 39 Index On August 1, 2019 (the first day of our fiscal 2020 ), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value. In making this assessment, we considered, among other things, expectations of projected net sales and cash flows, assumptions impacting the weighted average cost of capital, trends in trading multiples of comparable companies, changes in our stock price and changes in the carrying values of our reporting units with goodwill. We also considered overall business conditions. In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches. The income approach, also known as the discounted cash flow ("DCF") method, utilizes the present value of cash flows to estimate fair value. The future cash flows for our reporting units were projected based on our estimates, at that time, of future revenues, operating income and other factors (such as working capital and capital expenditures). For purposes of conducting our impairment analysis, we assumed revenue growth rates and cash flow projections that are below our actual long-term expectations. The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows). A terminal value growth rate was applied to the final year of the projected period, which reflects our estimate of stable, perpetual growth. We then calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each reporting unit to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach. Under the market approach, we estimated a fair value based on comparable companies' market multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and factored in a control premium. Finally, we compared our estimates of fair values to our August 1, 2019 total public market capitalization and assessed implied control premiums based on our common stock price of $29.54 as of August 1, 2019 . Based on our quantitative evaluation, we determined that our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 29.0% and 122.2% , respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and that neither of our two reporting units was at risk of failing the quantitative assessment. As of April 30, 2020, we considered both the potential short-term and long-term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our two reporting units with goodwill and whether such effects made it more-likely-than-not (i.e., a greater than 50.0% probability) that the fair values of our reporting units with goodwill would fall below their carrying values. Based upon our analysis, we have determined that none of our goodwill has been impaired as of April 30, 2020. However, it is possible that, during the remainder of fiscal 2020 or beyond, business conditions (both in the U.S. and internationally) could deteriorate from the current state, our current or prospective customers could materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we currently anticipate, or our common stock price could decline further. Such deterioration could be caused by uncertainty about the severity and length of the COVID-19 pandemic, and its impact on global business activity. A significant decline in our customers' spending that is greater than we anticipate or a shift in funding priorities may also have a negative effect on future orders, sales, income and cash flows and we might be required to perform a quantitative assessment during the remainder of fiscal 2020 or beyond. If assumed net sales and cash flow projections are not achieved in future periods or our common stock price significantly declines from current levels, our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units could be at risk of failing the quantitative assessment and goodwill and intangibles assigned to the respective reporting units could be impaired. In any event, we are required to perform the next annual goodwill impairment analysis on August 1, 2020 (the start of our fiscal 2021). If our assumptions and related estimates change in the future, or if we change our reporting unit structure or other events and circumstances change (e.g., a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock (considered on both absolute terms and relative to peers)), we may be required to record impairment charges when we perform these tests, or in other future periods. In addition to our impairment analysis of goodwill, we also review net intangible assets with finite lives when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. We believe that the carrying values of our net intangible assets were recoverable as of April 30, 2020 . Any impairment charges that we may record in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. 40 Index Provision for Warranty Obligations. We provide warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long-term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment. We record a liability for estimated warranty expense based on historical claims, product failure rates and other factors. Costs associated with some of our warranties that are provided under long-term contracts are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs. There exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating warranty expenses, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. If we do not accurately estimate our warranty costs, any changes to our original estimates could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Accounting for Income Taxes. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. Our provision for income taxes is based on domestic (including federal and state) and international statutory income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions where we operate, permanent differences between financial reporting and tax reporting and available credits and incentives. We recognize potential interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. The U.S. federal government is our most significant income tax jurisdiction. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and tax positions. We may be challenged upon review by the applicable taxing authority and positions taken by us may not be sustained. We recognize all or a portion of the benefit of income tax positions only when we have made a determination that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, based upon the technical merits of the position and other factors. For tax positions that are determined as more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, the tax benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The development of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and reserves for income tax positions requires consideration of timing and judgments about future taxable income, tax issues and potential outcomes, and are subjective critical estimates. A portion of our deferred tax assets consist of federal research and experimentation tax credit carryforwards, most of which was acquired in connection with our acquisition of TCS. No valuation allowance has been established on these deferred tax assets based on our evaluation that our ability to realize such assets has met the criteria of "more likely than not." We continuously evaluate additional facts representing positive and negative evidence in determining our ability to realize these deferred tax assets. In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2017 through 2019 are subject to potential future Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2015 are subject to audit. None of TCS's state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2015 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Research and Development Costs. We generally expense all research and development costs. Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other personnel-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs. Costs incurred internally in researching and developing software to be sold are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the software. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. Technological feasibility for our advanced communication software solutions is generally reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to customers and when we are able to validate the marketability of such product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. To date, capitalized internally developed software costs were not material. Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage trends. Other factors may also influence our provision, including decisions to exit a product line, technological change and new product development. These factors could result in a change in the amount of excess and obsolete inventory on hand. Additionally, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory was overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charge could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. 41 Index Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We perform credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness, as determined by our review of our customers current credit information. Generally, we will require cash in advance or payment secured by irrevocable letters of credit before an order is accepted from an international customer that we do not do business with regularly. In addition, we seek to obtain insurance for certain domestic and international customers. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. Because of our strong cash position and the nominal amount of interest we are earning on our cash and cash equivalents, we have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio. To-date, there has been no material changes in our credit portfolio as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and related worldwide restrictions on business activities. Although our overall credit losses have historically been within the allowances we established, we cannot accurately predict our future credit loss experience, given the current poor business environment. Measurement of credit losses requires consideration of historical loss experience, including the need to adjust for changing business conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates and the financial health of specific customers. Future changes to the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Business Outlook for Fiscal 2020 The third quarter of fiscal 2020 was challenging. Running from February 1 through April 30, 2020, our third fiscal quarter corresponded precisely with the period in which worldwide restrictions on business activities were in force due to the coronavirus disease 2019 ("COVID-19"). The overall business impact of COVID-19 largely resulted in significant order delays and lower net sales. For the quarter, we generated consolidated: Net sales of $135.1 million ; An operating loss of $3.1 million (or Non-GAAP operating income of $3.3 million , excluding $6.0 million of acquisition plan expenses and a $0.5 million charge related to estimated contract settlement costs) and a net loss of $4.0 million (or Non-GAAP net income of $1.2 million , excluding acquisition plan expenses of $4.1 million (net of tax), a $0.3 million charge related to estimated contract settlement costs (net of tax) and a net discrete tax expense of $0.7 million ); Cash flows from operating activities of $7.7 million ; and Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure discussed below) of $12.5 million . We achieved a consolidated book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) of 1.02 and finished the third quarter with consolidated backlog of $640.7 million . Our backlog (sometimes referred to herein as orders or bookings) is more fully defined in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and the total value of multi-year contracts that we have received is substantially higher than our reported backlog. As of April 30, 2020 , our cash and cash equivalents were $50.6 million and total debt outstanding under our Credit Facility was $159.4 million . Other recent developments in our business include: Our Commercial Solutions segment achieved a book-to-bill ratio of 0.73. Our satellite ground station technologies product line, which has historically required significant in-person meetings to generate new business and finalize sales orders, has been most impacted by restrictions on business activities. With our recent deployment of new video sales channel methods and the partial resumption of businesses activities in some places around the world, we believe this product line has started to slowly recover. Importantly, we have been awarded multiple satellite ground station technology solution contracts to support several U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) end customers, and have received initial funding for these critical projects that we expect will generate significant revenue for several years. In addition, we believe that demand for our 911 public safety and location technology solutions remains strong and we are in the process of finalizing a number of large multi-year projects. During the quarter, we were also awarded a multi-year contract valued at $9.1 million from a U.S. tier-one mobile network operator for 5G virtual mobile location-based technology solutions, including public safety applications. Additionally, we also launched a new product line website highlighting our public safety and location-based solutions and secured several multi-year contracts valued at more than $15.0 million to deploy new call-handling solutions in the Midwest. 42 Index Our Government Solutions segment achieved a book-to-bill ratio of 1.41. Although this segment has experienced order and shipment delays, demand for almost all of our mission-critical technologies and high-performance transmission technologies remains strong. In particular, we continue to provide Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) Satellite Communications Terminals to the U.S. government as well as ongoing sustainment services for several critical programs, including the SNAP and BFT-1 programs. Also, we continue to support the U.S. governments cyber security posture and received large orders for its Joint Cyber Analysis Course (JCAC) training solutions. In June 2020, we announced COMET - the worlds smallest over-the-horizon microwave terminal and received an initial order for the U.S. Special Operations Command. We are continuing to make significant efforts to win multi-year awards for several large new opportunities with the DoD. During the quarter, we completed the integration of CGC Technology Limited, a leading provider of high precision full motion fixed and mobile X/Y satellite tracking antennas based in the United Kingdom, into our Government Solutions segment and are now working with several top-tier European aerospace companies and other government entities to meet expected long-term growth in LEO and MEO satellite constellations. During the quarter, in response to lower levels of business activity, we implemented a variety of cost saving measures, including reducing global headcount by approximately 10%, reducing salaries, suspending merit increases and eliminating certain discretionary expenses. Severance costs relating to these actions were not material and cost reduction efforts continue. Although we are deemed an essential business by the U.S. government, for the safety of our employees, customers, partners and suppliers, we have implemented remote working arrangements, curtailed most business travel, and established social distancing safeguards at our facilities. We expect that such precautions will remain in effect for as long as government advisories recommend. Although the COVID-19 pandemic is by no means over and a second wave of COVID-19 could again alter the business landscape, we believe that the pandemics worst impact on our business is largely behind us. Our long-term fundamentals remain strong as we continue to believe we are well-positioned for growth as business conditions meaningfully improve. Although we have ceased during the current environment to provide specific financial targets for fiscal 2020 and it remains difficult to predict the timing of customer awards and related shipments, we do expect fiscal 2020 fourth quarter consolidated net sales, net income and Adjusted EBITDA to be somewhat better than the results we achieved during the third fiscal quarter. We expect to incur acquisition plan expenses of approximately $3.5 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. Our ability to achieve improved results during the fourth quarter will depend, in large part, on timely deliveries and the receipt of, and our performance on, orders from our customers. Fourth quarter results will be negatively impacted if orders and/or deliveries are delayed, business conditions further deteriorate, or our current or prospective customers materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services. We continue to be enthusiastic about our efforts on a number of large strategic orders and we are laser focused on positioning the company for a strong fiscal 2021. On June 3, 2020 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on August 14, 2020 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 15, 2020 . Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility, as amended, as well as Board approval. Additional information related to our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2020 and a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA is included in the below section " Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 " and " Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Nine Months Ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 ." Acquisition Plan Update In June 2020, we and UHP Networks, Inc. (UHP), a leading provider of innovative and disruptive satellite ground station technology solutions, agreed to amend the terms of our agreement for our purchase of UHP, which was originally announced in November 2019. Under the amended purchase agreement, the total aggregate purchase price has been reduced by approximately 24% from $50.0 million to $38.0 million (of which $5.0 million will be paid in cash, with the remainder in shares of our common stock, cash, or a combination of both, as we may elect at the time of closing). The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including necessary regulatory approval to allow us to purchase UHP's sister company which is headquartered in Moscow. 43 Index In January 2020, we entered into an agreement with Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd. ("Gilat") to acquire Gilat by way of a merger of Comtech's newly formed subsidiary with and into Gilat, with Gilat surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Comtech. Pursuant to the agreement, each Gilat ordinary share will be converted into the right to receive consideration of (i) $7.18 in cash, without interest, plus (ii) 0.08425 of a share of Comtech common stock, with cash payable in lieu of fractional shares. During the third quarter of fiscal 2020: (i) the proxy statement/prospectus for the Gilat Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders became effective; (ii) the shareholders of Gilat voted at that meeting in favor of the merger; and (iii) the statutory waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act expired. Our acquisition of Gilat remains subject to certain conditions to closing, including regulatory approval in Russia. In May 2020, we received notification from the Federal Antimonopoly Service of the Russian Federation that it was extending the review period for our application pending a decision under the Foreign Investment Law to determine whether approval is required from the Chairman of the Russian Government Commission for Supervising Foreign Investments. During the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we closed an acquisition of NG-911, Inc., a pioneer of Next Generation 911 solutions for public safety agencies in the Midwest. The acquisition allows us to cost-effectively expand sales of our industry leading Solacom Guardian call management solutions for public safety. The financial impact of the acquisition was not material. Other than for acquisition plan expenses, our fourth quarter fiscal 2020 business outlook does not include the impact of the pending acquisitions of UHP or Gilat, or the impact of any other expense we may incur in order to achieve our strategic objectives. COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2020 AND 2019 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $135.1 million and $170.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively, representing a decrease of $35.3 million, or 20.7% . The period-over-period decrease in net sales reflects lower net sales in both our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions segments. Net sales by operating segment are discussed below. Commercial Solutions Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were $78.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 , as compared to $89.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , a decrease of $11.3 million, or 12.6% . Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 58.0% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to 52.6% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 . Bookings in our Commercial Solutions segment for the three months ended April 30, 2020 were significantly lower than the bookings we achieved in the three months ended April 30, 2019, as customers curbed spending in response to the uncertain economic environment caused by COVID-19. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) for this segment was 0.73. We expect that as a result of COVID-19, fiscal 2020 net sales in this segment will be lower than in fiscal 2019. Although net sales of our satellite ground station technologies during the three months ended April 30, 2020 were significantly lower than the three months ended April 30, 2019 , we are seeing signs that point to the fundamental strength of this business. For example, during our third quarter of fiscal 2020, our Heights TM networking platform was selected by the worlds largest mobile network operator based in China to support the upgrade of its existing mobile backhaul and teleport technologies. We were also awarded a contract valued at $4.7 million for engineering services from a large prime contractor in support of a critical U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army Anti-jam Modem (A3M) program under the U.S. Space Forces Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) agency. The A3M program is intended to provide the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army with a secure, wideband, anti-jam satellite communications terminal modem for tactical satellite communication operations. The jam-resistant modems will support SMCs Protected Tactical Waveform technology, an anti-jam capability operating on military satellite communication terminals throughout the Wideband Global SATCOM constellation. Net sales in the three months ended April 30, 2020 of our public safety and location technology solutions were higher as compared to the net sales we achieved in the three months ended April 30, 2019 . We believe that demand for our 911 public safety and location technology solutions remains strong. During our third quarter of fiscal 2020, we were awarded a multi-year contract valued at $9.1 million from a U.S. tier-one mobile network operator for 5G virtual mobile location-based technology solutions, including public safety applications. In connection with our third quarter fiscal 2020 acquisition of NG-911, Inc., a pioneer of Next Generation 911 solutions for public safety agencies in the Midwest, we secured several multi-year contracts valued at more than $15.0 million to deploy new call-handling solutions in the region. Although public safety and location technology solutions have long sales cycles and are subject to difficult-to-predict changes in the overall procurement strategies of wireless carrier customers, we believe we are well positioned for continued growth in this market. We have a number of large opportunities pending related to upgrades to next generation 911 systems. Overall market conditions remain favorable and we expect fiscal 2020 net sales for our public safety and location technology solutions to finish ahead of fiscal 2019. 44 Index Bookings, sales and profitability in our Commercial Solutions segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Government Solutions Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $56.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to $80.8 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , a decrease of $24.0 million, or 29.7% . Our Government Solutions segment represented 42.0% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2020 , as compared to 47.4% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 . Period-to-period fluctuations in bookings are normal for this segment, and despite the quarter-over-quarter decline in net sales, as discussed below, our business remains strong and demand for our solutions appears robust. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) in this segment for the third quarter of fiscal 2020 was 1.41 . Bookings during the quarter include: (i) $5.6 million of additional orders from the U.S. government for its Joint Cyber Analysis Course (JCAC) Training solutions; (ii) $6.3 million of initial funding on a $12.6 million contract from a major U.S. subcontractor for the supply of high reliability electrical, electronic and electromechanical ("EEE") space components to be utilized on NASAs Artemis rocket launch program; and (iii) over $6.0 million of additional funding related to sustaining the U.S. Armys Project Manager Mission Command (PM MC) Blue Force Tracking (BFT-1) program. Net sales of our mission-critical technologies during the three months ended April 30, 2020 were significantly lower as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019 , largely due to the timing of and performance on orders related to our: (i) $98.6 million U.S. Army global field support contract; and (ii) satellite tracking antennas and high reliability EEE satellite based space components. During the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we continued to support the U.S. Armys initiatives to modernize its tactical communications infrastructure and are pursuing several related large near-term opportunities in our pipeline. We are also pursuing additional near-term funding and order opportunities related to NASAs Artemis rocket launch program. Net sales of our high-performance transmission technologies during the three months ended April 30, 2020 were lower than in the three months ended April 30, 2019 as a result of lower net sales of our solid-state, high-power amplifiers and related switching technologies, as well as our over-the-horizon ("OTH") microwave system technologies. Bookings as well as net sales of our OTH microwave system technologies for the quarter were negatively impacted by COVID-19 travel restrictions, mandated facility closures and shelter-in-place orders affecting our customers. We believe that fiscal 2020 net sales in our Government Solutions segment will be lower than the level we achieved in fiscal 2019, largely due to the timing of and performance on orders related to our $98.6 million U.S. Army global field support contract and fielding and order delays resulting from COVID-19. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Government Solutions segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our U.S. and international government customers. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Geography and Customer Type Sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of related sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: Three months ended April 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Consolidated U.S. government 9.2 % 19.2 % 60.3 % 60.8 % 30.7 % 38.9 % Domestic 65.8 % 53.8 % 16.4 % 13.5 % 45.0 % 34.7 % Total U.S. 75.0 % 73.0 % 76.7 % 74.3 % 75.7 % 73.6 % International 25.0 % 27.0 % 23.3 % 25.7 % 24.3 % 26.4 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. Except for the U.S. government, there were no customers that represented more than 10.0% of consolidated net sales during the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 . 45 Index International sales for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $32.8 million and $45.0 million , respectively. Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10.0% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 . Gross Profit. Gross profit was $53.0 million and $64.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. The decrease of $11.4 million primarily reflects the decline in net sales, as discussed above. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2020 was 39.2% as compared to 37.8% for the three months ended April 30, 2019 . This increase was driven by product mix changes as a result of the period-over-period increase in our Commercial Solutions segment's net sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales. The Commercial Solutions segment historically achieves higher gross margins than our Government Solutions segment. Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below. Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2020 decreased in comparison to the three months ended April 30, 2019 . The decrease in gross profit percentage in the three months ended April 30, 2020 primarily reflects changes in products and services mix, including significantly lower net sales of our satellite ground station technologies, offset in part by cost reduction actions taken during the quarter. Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2020 increased as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019 . The increase in gross profit percentage primarily reflects a more favorable mix of mission-critical technology solutions in the three months ended April 30, 2020. Included in consolidated cost of sales for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $0.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively. As discussed in " Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory," we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage trends. Our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each segment, and therefore is inherently difficult to forecast. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $32.3 million and $33.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively, representing a decrease of $1.1 million, or 3.3% . As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 23.9% and 19.6% for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. Our selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2020 reflect certain cost reduction actions during the quarter, partially offset by severance costs. Excluding $0.5 million and $2.5 million of estimated contract settlement costs in the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively, our selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 would have been $31.8 million, or 23.6%, and $30.9 million, or 18.1%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. The increase, in dollars, is primarily attributable to the incremental selling, general and administrative expenses of our acquired businesses. The increase, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is due to lower net sales during the fiscal 2020 quarter. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $0.9 million and $1.0 million in the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. Amortization of stock-based compensation is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $12.3 million and $13.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively, representing a decrease of $1.2 million, or 8.9% . As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 9.1% and 7.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. For the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , research and development expenses of $10.8 million and $11.6 , respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment, and $1.4 million and $1.8 million, respectively, related to our Government Solutions segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million for both the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense. 46 Index Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , customers reimbursed us $3.1 million and $3.3 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $5.5 million (of which $4.3 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $1.2 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and $4.5 million (of which $3.7 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $0.8 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended April 30, 2019 . The increase of $1.0 million was due to our completed acquisitions. Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2020 assumes total annual amortization of intangible assets of approximately $22.0 million. This amount does not include the impact of our pending acquisitions of Gilat and UHP. Acquisition Plan Expenses. During the three months ended April 30, 2020 , we incurred acquisition plan expenses of $6.0 million, primarily related to our pending acquisitions of Gilat and UHP and our recently completed acquisition of CGC. During the three months ended April 30, 2019, we incurred acquisition plan expenses of $1.7 million, which primarily related to our fiscal 2019 acquisitions of Solacom and the GD NG-911 business. These expenses are primarily recorded in our Unallocated segment. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we expect to incur approximately $3.5 million of acquisition plan expenses primarily related to our pending acquisitions of Gilat and UHP. Operating (Loss) Income. Operating loss for the three months ended April 30, 2020 was $3.1 million as compared to operating income of $11.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 . Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is shown in the table below: Three months ended April 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Operating income (loss) $ 4.0 8.1 4.2 10.1 (11.4 ) (6.9 ) $ (3.1 ) 11.3 Percentage of related net sales 5.1 % 9.0 % 7.4 % 12.5 % NA NA NA 6.6 % The Commercial Solutions segment's operating income for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 reflects $0.5 million and $2.5 million , respectively, of estimated contract settlement costs, as discussed above. The segment's operating income for the three months ended April 30, 2020 also reflects $0.7 million of the total acquisition plan expenses, as discussed above. Excluding such charges, operating income in our Commercial Solutions segment would have been $5.2 million, or 6.6% of related segment net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and $10.6 million, or 11.8% of related segment net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2019 . The decrease in operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is due primarily to the decrease in this segments net sales and gross profit percentage, as well as from increased amortization of intangibles, all as discussed above. Looking forward, given expected sales, product mix assumptions and the impact of cost reduction actions taken to-date, we expect this segment's fiscal 2020 operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be lower than in fiscal 2019. The decrease in our Government Solutions segments operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, in the three months ended April 30, 2020 was due primarily to the decrease in net sales and higher amortization of intangibles, both as discussed above. The decrease in this segments operating income was offset, in part, by an increase in this segments gross profit percentage. Looking forward, given expected sales, product mix assumptions and the impact of cost reduction actions taken to-date, we expect this segments fiscal 2020 operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be lower than in fiscal 2019. The increase in unallocated expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019 is primarily due to higher acquisition plan expenses during the most recent fiscal quarter. Amortization of stock-based compensation was $1.0 million and $1.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. 47 Index Excluding the $6.0 million of acquisition plan expenses and $0.5 million of estimated contract settlement costs during the period, as discussed above, consolidated operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2020 would have been $3.3 million , or 2.5% of consolidated net sales. Excluding the $1.7 million of acquisition plan expenses and $2.5 million of estimated contract settlement costs during the period, as discussed above, consolidated operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 would have been $15.5 million, or 9.1% of consolidated net sales. The decrease in consolidated operating income is due primarily to the decrease in consolidated net sales and increased amortization of intangibles, partially offset by a higher consolidated gross profit percentage and cost reduction actions taken during the third quarter of fiscal 2020, as discussed above. Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2020 assumes, similar to the prior three fiscal years, that we will continue to pay certain annual non-equity incentive awards in the form of fully-vested share units. Amortization of stock-based compensation can fluctuate from period-to-period based on the type and timing of stock-based awards, estimated forfeitures and the achievement of applicable performance goals. Looking forward, unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2020 are expected to be higher than the $23.6 million incurred in fiscal 2019. The increase is expected to be driven by incremental acquisition plan expenses and the absence of a $3.2 million benefit in fiscal 2020 resulting from the favorable ruling in fiscal 2019 related to a legacy TCS intellectual property litigation matter offset, in part, by the impact of cost reduction actions taken to-date. Based on lower consolidated net sales expected in fiscal 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, incremental acquisition plan expenses, incremental amortization of intangibles and the absence of a favorable settlement of a legacy TCS intellectual property litigation matter, offset in part by lower spending as a result of cost reduction actions taken to-date, our fiscal 2020 consolidated operating income (in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales) is anticipated to be significantly lower than the $41.4 million or 6.2 % we achieved in fiscal 2019. Interest Expense and Other. Interest expense was $1.5 million and $2.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. The decrease is attributable to lower outstanding indebtedness under our Credit Facility and lower interest rates. Our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in the three months ended April 30, 2020 was approximately 3.7% . For fiscal 2020, we expect our interest expense rate to approximate 3.8% and our total interest expense to approximate $6.2 million. Our cash borrowing rate (which excludes the amortization of deferred financing costs) is approximately 2.25% to 2.50% . Interest (Income) and Other. Interest (income) and other for both the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 was nominal. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding an immaterial interest rate. (Benefit from) Provision for Income Taxes. The benefit from income taxes during the three months ended April 30, 2020 was $0.8 million as compared to a tax expense of $1.5 million during the three months ended April 30, 2019 . Our effective tax rate (excluding discrete tax items) for the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 was 31.0% and 23.0%, respectively. The increase from 23.0% to 31.0% is due primarily to the anticipated decrease in fiscal 2020 consolidated net sales, which also led to a net discrete tax expense of $0.7 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2020. During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $0.6 million primarily related to the reversal of tax contingencies no longer required due to the expiration of applicable statutes of limitation and the finalization of certain tax deductions in connection with the filing of our fiscal 2018 federal income tax return. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2017 through 2019 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2015 are subject to audit. None of TCS's state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2015 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Net (Loss) Income. During the three months ended April 30, 2020 , consolidated net loss was $4.0 million as compared to net income of $7.6 million during the three months ended April 30, 2019 . 48 Index Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) for both the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 are shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): Three months ended April 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Net income (loss) $ 3.5 8.1 4.3 10.1 (11.7 ) (10.5 ) $ (4.0 ) 7.6 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 0.5 (0.1 ) (1.2 ) 1.5 (0.8 ) 1.5 Interest (income) and other 0.1 0.1 Interest expense 1.5 2.1 1.5 2.2 Amortization of stock-based compensation 1.0 1.1 1.0 1.1 Amortization of intangibles 4.3 3.7 1.2 0.8 5.5 4.5 Depreciation 2.0 2.4 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.2 2.7 2.9 Estimated contract settlement costs 0.5 2.5 0.5 2.5 Acquisition plan expenses 0.7 5.3 1.7 6.0 1.7 Adjusted EBITDA $ 11.5 16.7 5.8 11.3 (4.9 ) (3.9 ) $ 12.5 24.0 Percentage of related net sales 14.7 % 18.6 % 10.3 % 13.9 % NA NA 9.2 % 14.1 % The decrease in consolidated and segment level Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, during the three months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2019 was primarily attributable to lower related net sales and operating income, as discussed above. Because our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each individual segment as well as unallocated spending, it is inherently difficult to forecast. In addition, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2020 includes several items, the timing of which can still shift and impact our expected fourth quarter financial performance. Looking forward and based on the above discussions, we expect consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be lower in fiscal 2020 as compared to the $93.5 million and 13.9% we achieved in fiscal 2019. 49 Index A reconciliation of our fiscal 2019 GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA of $93.5 million is shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): ($ in millions) Fiscal Year 2019 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA: Net income $ 25.0 Provision for income taxes 3.9 Interest income and other Write-off of deferred financing costs 3.2 Interest expense 9.2 Amortization of stock-based compensation 11.4 Amortization of intangibles 18.3 Depreciation 11.9 Estimated contract settlement costs 6.4 Settlement of intellectual property litigation (3.2 ) Acquisition plan expenses 5.9 Facility exit costs 1.4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 93.5 In addition, a reconciliation of our GAAP consolidated operating income (loss), net income (loss) and net income (loss) per diluted share during the three months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 to the corresponding non-GAAP measures are shown in the tables below (numbers and per share amounts in the table may not foot due to rounding): Three months ended April 30, 2020 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating (Loss) Income Net (Loss) Income Net (Loss) Income per Diluted Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings (Loss): GAAP measures, as reported $ (3.1 ) $ (4.0 ) $ (0.16 ) Acquisition plan expenses 6.0 4.1 0.16 Estimated contract settlement costs 0.5 0.3 0.01 Net discrete tax expense 0.7 0.03 Non-GAAP measures $ 3.3 $ 1.2 $ 0.05 Three months ended April 30, 2019 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating Income Net Income Net Income per Diluted Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ 11.3 $ 7.6 $ 0.31 Estimated contract settlement costs 2.5 1.9 0.08 Acquisition plan expenses 1.7 1.3 0.05 Net discrete tax benefit (0.6 ) (0.02 ) Non-GAAP measures $ 15.5 $ 10.2 $ 0.42 50 Index Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other, write-off of deferred financing costs, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, estimated contract settlement costs, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses, facility exit costs and strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA or Adjusted EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts. We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies. Our Non-GAAP measures for consolidated operating income, net income and net income per diluted share reflect the GAAP measures as reported, adjusted for certain items as described. These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the above tables, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings. COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2020 AND 2019 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $467.0 million and $495.4 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively, representing a decrease of $28.4 million, or 5.7% . The period-over-period decrease in net sales reflects lower net sales in our Government Solutions segment, offset in part by higher net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment. Net sales by operating segment are discussed below. Commercial Solutions Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were $268.8 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 , as compared to $254.3 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , an increase of $14.5 million, or 5.7% . Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 57.5% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to 51.3% for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . Bookings in our Commercial Solutions segment for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 were significantly lower than the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , as customers curbed spending in response to the uncertain economic environment caused by COVID-19. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) for this segment was 0.86 . We expect that as a result of COVID-19, fiscal 2020 net sales in this segment will be lower than in fiscal 2019. Although net sales of our satellite ground station technologies during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 were lower than in the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , we are seeing signs that point to the fundamental strength of this business. For example, during our third quarter of fiscal 2020, our Heights TM networking platform was selected by the worlds largest mobile network operator based in China to support the upgrade of its existing mobile backhaul and teleport technologies. We were also awarded a contract valued at $4.7 million for engineering services from a large prime contractor in support of a critical U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army Anti-jam Modem (A3M) program under the U.S. Space Forces Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) agency. The A3M program is intended to provide the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army with a secure, wideband, anti-jam satellite communications terminal modem for tactical satellite communication operations. The jam-resistant modems will support SMCs Protected Tactical Waveform technology, an anti-jam capability operating on military satellite communication terminals throughout the Wideband Global SATCOM constellation. Net sales in the nine months ended April 30, 2020 of our public safety and location technology solutions were higher as compared to the net sales we achieved in the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . We believe that demand for our 911 public safety and location technology solutions remains strong. In the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we announced a contract worth $6.6 million to upgrade a next generation 911 system for a New England state, as well as a multi-year contract extension totaling an estimated $14.2 million to provide enhanced 911 services to a tier-one U.S. wireless telecommunications carrier. More recently, during our third quarter of fiscal 2020, we were awarded a multi-year contract valued at $9.1 million from a U.S. tier-one mobile network operator for 5G virtual mobile location-based technology solutions, including public safety applications. In connection with our third quarter fiscal 2020 acquisition of NG-911, Inc., a pioneer of Next Generation 911 solutions for public safety agencies in the Midwest, we secured several multi-year contracts valued at more than $15.0 million to deploy new call-handling solutions in the region. Although public safety and location technology solutions have long sales cycles and are subject to difficult-to-predict changes in the overall procurement strategies of wireless carrier customers, we believe we are well positioned for continued growth in this market. We have a number of large opportunities pending related to upgrades to next generation 911 systems. Overall market conditions remain favorable and we expect fiscal 2020 net sales for our public safety and location technology solutions to finish ahead of fiscal 2019. 51 Index Bookings, sales and profitability in our Commercial Solutions segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Government Solutions Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $198.2 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to $241.1 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , a decrease of $42.9 million, or 17.8% . Our Government Solutions segment represented 42.5% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 , as compared to 48.7% for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . Period-to-period fluctuations in bookings are normal for this segment, and despite the year-over-year decline in net sales, as discussed below, our business remains strong and demand for our solutions appears robust. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) in this segment for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 was 0.98 . Bookings during the most recent period include $13.4 million of initial funding related to a 10-year, $211.0 million IDIQ contract awarded to us by a prime contractor to provide next generation troposcatter systems in support of the U.S. Marine Corps. We believe this multi-year opportunity validates Comtechs market leading troposcatter technologies and expertise. Also, during the most recent nine-month period, the U.S Army awarded us a contract with a $98.6 million ceiling to provide global field support services for military satellite communication ("SATCOM") terminals around the world. These SATCOM terminals provide inter and intra-theater network communications with worldwide reach back capability. The field support contract covers diverse engineering and technical skills to support these SATCOM terminals, including logistics, help desk, network engineering, security engineering, RF and satellite system engineering and support. To-date, the contract has been funded at $31.1 million with additional funding expected to occur across the remaining twelve-month performance period. Recently, this customer verbally notified us of its intent to exercise an optional six-month extension of the contract and we have provided budgetary numbers for funding to the customer. Other bookings during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 include: (i) $8.4 million of additional orders from the U.S. government for its Joint Cyber Analysis Course (JCAC) Training solutions; (ii) $6.3 million of initial funding on a $12.6 million contract from a major U.S. subcontractor for the supply of high reliability electrical, electronic and electromechanical ("EEE") space components to be utilized on NASAs Artemis rocket launch program; and (iii) over $6.0 million of additional funding related to sustaining the U.S. Armys Project Manager Mission Command (PM MC) Blue Force Tracking (BFT-1) program. Net sales of our mission-critical technologies during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 were lower as compared to the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , due primarily to: (i) the timing of and performance on orders related to satellite tracking antennas and high reliability EEE satellite based space components; (ii) lower net sales to the U.S. Army of our next generation MT-2025 mobile satellite transceivers; and (iii) the timing of and performance on orders related to our $98.6 million U.S. Army global field support contract. During the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we continued to support the U.S. Armys initiatives to modernize its tactical communications infrastructure and are pursuing several related large near-term opportunities in our pipeline. We are also pursuing additional near-term funding and order opportunities related to NASAs Artemis rocket launch program. Net sales of our high-performance transmission technologies during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 were higher than in the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , driven by increased sales of our solid-state, high-power amplifiers and related switching technologies. We believe that fiscal 2020 net sales in our Government Solutions segment will be lower than the level we achieved in fiscal 2019, largely due to the timing of and performance on orders related to our $98.6 million U.S. Army global field support contract and fielding and order delays resulting from COVID-19. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Government Solutions segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our U.S. and international government customers. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. 52 Index Geography and Customer Type Sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of related sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: Nine months ended April 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Consolidated U.S. government 15.3 % 20.6 % 69.1 % 66.1 % 38.1 % 42.7 % Domestic 59.1 % 52.8 % 11.4 % 11.6 % 38.8 % 32.7 % Total U.S. 74.4 % 73.4 % 80.5 % 77.7 % 76.9 % 75.4 % International 25.6 % 26.6 % 19.5 % 22.3 % 23.1 % 24.6 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. Except for the U.S. government, there were no customers that represented more than 10.0% of consolidated net sales during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 . International sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $107.5 million and $121.6 million , respectively. Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10.0% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 . Gross Profit. Gross profit was $177.2 million and $183.4 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. The decrease of $6.2 million primarily reflects lower net sales in our Government Solutions segment, offset in part by higher net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment, as discussed above. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 was 37.9% as compared to 37.0% for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . This increase was driven by product mix changes as a result of the period-over-period increase in our Commercial Solutions segments net sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales. This segment historically achieves higher gross margins than our Government Solutions segment. Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below. Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 decreased in comparison to the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . The decrease in gross profit percentage in the nine months ended April 30, 2020 primarily reflects changes in products and services mix, including lower net sales of our satellite ground station technologies, offset in part by cost reduction actions taken during the quarter. Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 increased in comparison to the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . The increase in gross profit percentage primarily reflects a more favorable mix of mission-critical technology solutions in the nine months ended April 30, 2020. Included in consolidated cost of sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $1.2 million and $2.5 million , respectively. As discussed in " Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory," we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage trends. Our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each segment, and therefore is inherently difficult to forecast. 53 Index Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $93.5 million and $97.2 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively, representing a decrease of $3.7 million, or 3.8% . As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 20.0% and 19.6% for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. Our selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 reflect certain cost reduction actions during the quarter, partially offset by severance costs. During the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , we incurred $0.4 million and $6.4 million , respectively, of estimated contract settlement costs principally related to the repositioning of our location technologies solutions offerings in our Commercial Solutions segment. During the nine months ended April 30, 2019, we also incurred $1.4 million of facility exit costs in our Government Solutions segment. Excluding such costs, our selling, general and administrative expenses would have been $93.1 million, or 19.9% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and $89.5 million, or 18.1% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2019. The increase, in dollars, is primarily attributable to the incremental selling, general and administrative expenses of our acquired businesses. The increase, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is due to lower net sales during the most recent period. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $2.7 million in the nine months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to $3.0 million in the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . Amortization of stock-based compensation is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $40.9 million and $40.7 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively, representing an increase of $0.2 million, or 0.5% . As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 8.8% and 8.2% for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. For the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , research and development expenses of $35.7 million and $35.0 million, respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment, and $5.1 million and $5.5 million, respectively, related to our Government Solutions segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.2 million for both the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , customers reimbursed us $8.2 million and $10.6 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $16.0 million (of which $13.0 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $2.9 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and $13.1 million (of which $10.6 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $2.5 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . The increase of $2.9 million was due to our completed acquisitions. Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2020 assumes total annual amortization of intangible assets of approximately $22.0 million. This amount does not include the impact of our pending acquisitions of Gilat and UHP. Settlement of Intellectual Property Litigation. During the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , we recorded a $3.2 million benefit in our Unallocated segment as a result of a favorable ruling issued by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter. There was no comparable adjustment in the nine months ended April 30, 2020 . Acquisition Plan Expenses. During the nine months ended April 30, 2020 , we incurred acquisition plan expenses of $14.4 million, including expenses related to our pending acquisitions of Gilat and UHP and our recently completed acquisition of CGC. During the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , we incurred acquisition plan expenses of $4.6 million, which primarily related to our fiscal 2019 acquisitions of Solacom and the GD NG-911 business. These expenses are primarily recorded in our Unallocated segment. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we expect to incur approximately $3.5 million of acquisition plan expenses primarily related to our pending acquisitions of Gilat and UHP. 54 Index Operating Income. Operating income for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 was $12.4 million as compared to $31.0 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . Operating income by reportable segment is shown in the table below: Nine months ended April 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Operating income (loss) $ 26.5 23.9 16.3 24.5 (30.4 ) (17.4 ) $ 12.4 31.0 Percentage of related net sales 9.9 % 9.4 % 8.2 % 10.2 % NA NA 2.7 % 6.3 % The Commercial Solutions segment's operating income for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 reflects $0.4 million and $6.4 million of estimated contract settlement costs, as discussed above. The segment's operating income for the most recent period also reflects $0.7 million of the total acquisition plan expenses, as discussed above. Excluding such charges, operating income in our Commercial Solutions segment would have been $27.6 million, or 10.3% of related segment net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and $30.3 million, or 11.9% of related segment net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . The decrease in operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was due primarily to the increased amortization of intangibles, as discussed above. Looking forward, given expected sales, product mix assumptions and the impact of cost reduction actions taken to-date, we expect this segment's fiscal 2020 operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be lower than in fiscal 2019. The Government Solutions segments operating income for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 included $1.4 million of facility exit costs, as discussed above. Excluding such facility exit costs, operating income in our Government Solutions segment for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 would have been $25.9 million , or 10.7% of related segment sales. The decrease in our Government Solutions segments operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, in the nine months ended April 30, 2020 was due primarily to the decrease in net sales, as discussed above. Looking forward, given expected sales, product mix assumptions and the impact of cost reduction actions taken to-date, we expect this segments fiscal 2020 operating income in dollars, and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be lower than in fiscal 2019. The increase in unallocated expenses for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to the nine months ended April 30, 2019 is primarily due to higher acquisition plan expenses during the most recent nine-month period and the $3.2 million benefit in the prior year period related to a favorable ruling issued by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above. Amortization of stock-based compensation was $3.1 million and $3.4 million , respectively, for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 . Excluding the $14.4 million of acquisition plan expenses and $0.4 million of estimated contract settlement costs, consolidated operating income for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 would have been $27.2 million , or 5.8% of consolidated net sales. Excluding the $6.4 million of estimated contract settlement costs, $4.6 million of acquisition plan expenses, $3.2 million benefit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter and the $1.4 million of facility exit costs in the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , consolidated operating income would have been $40.2 million, or 8.1% of consolidated net sales. The decrease in dollars, and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, was due primarily to the decrease in consolidated net sales and increased amortization of intangibles, as discussed above. Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2020 assumes, similar to the prior three fiscal years, that we will continue to pay certain annual non-equity incentive awards in the form of fully-vested share units. Amortization of stock-based compensation can fluctuate from period-to-period based on the type and timing of stock-based awards, estimated forfeitures and the achievement of applicable performance goals. Looking forward, unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2020 are expected to be higher than the $23.6 million incurred in fiscal 2019. The increase is expected to be driven by incremental acquisition plan expenses and the absence of a $3.2 million benefit in fiscal 2020 resulting from the favorable ruling in fiscal 2019 related to a legacy TCS intellectual property litigation matter offset, in part, by the impact of cost reduction actions taken to-date. Based on lower consolidated net sales expected in fiscal 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, incremental acquisition plan expenses, incremental amortization of intangibles and the absence of a favorable settlement of a legacy TCS intellectual property litigation matter, offset in part by lower spending as a result of cost reduction actions taken to-date, our fiscal 2020 consolidated operating income (in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales) is anticipated to be significantly lower than the $41.4 million or 6.2% we achieved in fiscal 2019. 55 Index Interest Expense and Other. Interest expense was $4.9 million and $7.1 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. The decrease is attributable to lower outstanding indebtedness under our Credit Facility and lower interest rates. Our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in the nine months ended April 30, 2020 was approximately 4.25% . For fiscal 2020, we expect our interest expense rate to approximate 3.8% and our total interest expense to approximate $6.2 million. Our cash borrowing rate (which excludes the amortization of deferred financing costs) is approximately 2.25% to 2.50% . Write-off of Deferred Financing Costs. In connection with the establishment of our Credit Facility in the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , we wrote-off $3.2 million of deferred financing costs which primarily related to the term loan portion of our Prior Credit Facility. See " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (11) - Credit Facility " for further information. There was no comparable charge in the nine months ended April 30, 2020 . Interest (Income) and Other. Interest (income) and other for both the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 was nominal. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding an immaterial interest rate. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 was $1.5 million and $1.8 million, respectively. Our effective tax rate (excluding discrete tax items) for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 was 31.0% and 23.0%, respectively. The increase from 23.0% to 31.0% is due primarily to the anticipated decrease in fiscal 2020 consolidated net sales. During the nine months ended April 30, 2020 , we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $0.8 million, primarily related to stock-based awards that were settled during fiscal 2020 and the finalization of certain tax deductions in connection with the filing of our fiscal 2019 federal income tax return. During the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $3.0 million, primarily related to (i) the favorable resolution of the IRS' audit of our fiscal 2016 federal income tax return, (ii) discrete tax benefits for stock-based awards that were settled during fiscal 2019, (iii) the reversal of tax contingencies no longer required due to the expiration of applicable statutes of limitation and, (iv) the finalization of certain tax deductions in connection with the filing of our fiscal 2018 federal income tax return. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2017 through 2019 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2015 are subject to audit. None of TCS's state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2015 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Net Income. During the nine months ended April 30, 2020 , consolidated net income was $5.9 million as compared to $18.9 million during the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . 56 Index Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) for both the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 are shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): Nine months ended April 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Net income (loss) $ 26.0 23.8 16.4 24.5 (36.5 ) (29.4 ) $ 5.9 18.9 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 0.4 0.1 (0.1 ) 1.2 1.7 1.5 1.8 Interest (income) and other 0.1 Write-off of deferred financing costs 3.2 3.2 Interest expense 0.1 4.9 7.0 4.9 7.1 Amortization of stock-based compensation 3.1 3.4 3.1 3.4 Amortization of intangibles 13.0 10.6 2.9 2.5 16.0 13.1 Depreciation 6.4 6.9 1.1 1.1 0.6 0.6 8.0 8.6 Estimated contract settlement costs 0.4 6.4 0.4 6.4 Settlement of intellectual property litigation (3.2 ) (3.2 ) Acquisition plan expenses 0.7 13.7 4.6 14.4 4.6 Facility exit costs 1.4 1.4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 47.1 47.8 20.3 29.5 (13.1 ) (12.0 ) $ 54.3 65.2 Percentage of related net sales 17.5 % 18.8 % 10.2 % 12.2 % NA NA 11.6 % 13.2 % The decrease in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 as compared to the nine months ended April 30, 2019 is primarily attributable to lower consolidated net sales, as discussed above. The decrease in our Commercial Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of related segment net sales, was due to changes in products and services mix during the nine months ended April 30, 2020, as discussed above. The decrease in our Government Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily driven by lower net sales during the nine months ended April 30, 2020, as discussed above. Because our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each individual segment as well as unallocated spending, it is inherently difficult to forecast. In addition, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2020 includes several items, the timing of which can still shift and impact our expected fourth quarter financial performance. Looking forward and based on the above discussions, we expect consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be lower in fiscal 2020 as compared to the $93.5 million and 13.9% we achieved in fiscal 2019. 57 Index A reconciliation of our fiscal 2019 GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA of $93.5 million is shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): ($ in millions) Fiscal Year 2019 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA: Net income $ 25.0 Provision for income taxes 3.9 Interest income and other Write-off of deferred financing costs 3.2 Interest expense 9.2 Amortization of stock-based compensation 11.4 Amortization of intangibles 18.3 Depreciation 11.9 Estimated contract settlement costs 6.4 Settlement of intellectual property litigation (3.2 ) Acquisition plan expenses 5.9 Facility exit costs 1.4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 93.5 In addition, a reconciliation of our GAAP consolidated operating income, net income and net income per diluted share during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 to the corresponding non-GAAP measures are shown in the tables below (numbers and per share amounts in the table may not foot due to rounding): Nine months ended April 30, 2020 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating Income Net Income Net Income per Diluted Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ 12.4 $ 5.9 $ 0.24 Acquisition plan expenses 14.4 9.9 0.40 Estimated contract settlement costs 0.4 0.3 0.01 Net discrete tax benefit (0.8 ) (0.03 ) Non-GAAP measures $ 27.2 $ 15.3 $ 0.62 Nine months ended April 30, 2019 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating Income Net Income Net Income per Diluted Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ 31.0 $ 18.9 $ 0.78 Estimated contract settlement costs 6.4 4.9 0.20 Settlement of intellectual property litigation (3.2 ) (2.5 ) (0.10 ) Facility exit costs 1.4 1.1 0.04 Acquisition plan expenses 4.6 3.6 0.15 Write-off of deferred financing costs 2.5 0.10 Net discrete tax benefit (3.0 ) (0.12 ) Non-GAAP measures $ 40.2 $ 25.5 $ 1.05 58 Index Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other, write-off of deferred financing costs, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, estimated contract settlement costs, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses, facility exit costs and strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA or Adjusted EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts. We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies. Our Non-GAAP measures for consolidated operating income, net income and net income per diluted share reflect the GAAP measures as reported, adjusted for certain items as described. These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the above tables, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our cash and cash equivalents increased $5.0 million from $45.6 million at July 31, 2019 to $50.6 million at April 30, 2020 . The increase in cash and cash equivalents during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 was driven by the following: Net cash provided by operating activities was $ 39.0 million and $53.8 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. The period-over-period decrease in cash flow from operating activities reflects lower net sales and overall changes in net working capital requirements, principally the timing of shipments, billings and payments. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 was $ 16.4 million as compared to $ 42.3 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 . During the nine months ended April 30, 2020 , we paid $11.2 million and $0.8 million, respectively, in connection with our acquisitions of CGC Technology Limited and NG-911, Inc., net of cash acquired. During the nine months ended April 30, 2019, we paid $25.9 million and $10.0 million, respectively, in connection with our acquisitions of Solacom and the GD NG-911 business, net of cash acquired. The remaining portion of net cash used in both periods primarily represented expenditures relating to ongoing equipment upgrades and enhancements. Net cash used in financing activities was $ 17.6 million and $9.9 million , respectively, for the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 . During the nine months ended April 30, 2019 , we entered into a Credit Facility and repaid in full the outstanding borrowings under our Prior Credit Facility. During the nine months ended April 30, 2020 , we made net payments under our Credit Facility of $5.6 million . During the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , we paid $7.6 million and $7.4 million , respectively, in cash dividends to our stockholders. We also made $5.3 million and $5.0 million of payments to remit employees' statutory tax withholding requirements related to the net settlement of stock-based awards during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. The Credit Facility is discussed below and in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (11) - Credit Facility." Our investment policy relating to our cash and cash equivalents is intended to minimize principal loss while at the same time maximize the income we receive without significantly increasing risk. To minimize risk, we generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in money market mutual funds (both government and commercial), certificates of deposit, bank deposits, and U.S. Treasury securities. Many of our money market mutual funds invest in direct obligations of the U.S. government, bank securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, certificates of deposit and commercial paper and other securities issued by other companies. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we believe our investment policies are appropriate in the current environment. Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market. As of April 30, 2020 , our material short-term cash requirements primarily consist of: (i) interest payments under our Credit Facility; (ii) payments related to lease commitments; (iii) our ongoing working capital needs, including income tax payments; and (iv) payment of accrued quarterly dividends. 59 Index As discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (2) - Acquisitions," and the section above titled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2020, in January 2020, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") to acquire Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd ("Gilat"). Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each Gilat ordinary share will be converted into the right to receive consideration of (i) $7.18 in cash, without interest, plus (ii) 0.08425 of a share of Comtech common stock, with cash payable in lieu of fractional shares. We expect to fund the Gilat acquisition by redeploying a portion of both our and Gilat's combined unrestricted cash and cash equivalents with the remaining funds provided by a new $800.0 million Gilat Acquisition Related Credit Facility (See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 11 - "Credit Facility" ), the exact terms of which are expected to be finalized on or prior to the closing of the merger. After closing and including estimated transaction fees of $31.7 million , we expect to have approximately $50.0 million of cash on hand. In December 2018, we filed a $400.0 million shelf registration statement with the SEC for the sale of various types of securities, including debt. The shelf registration statement was declared effective by the SEC as of December 14, 2018. As of April 30, 2020 and June 3, 2020 , we were authorized to repurchase up to an additional $8.7 million of our common stock, pursuant to our current $100.0 million stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase program has no time restrictions and repurchases may be made in open-market or privately negotiated transactions and may be made pursuant to SEC Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. There were no repurchases of our common stock during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 and 2019 . On September 24, 2019 , December 4, 2019 , and March 4, 2020 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, which was paid on November 15, 2019 , February 14, 2020 , and May 15, 2020 , respectively. On June 3, 2020 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on August 14, 2020 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 15, 2020 . Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility, as amended, as well as Board approval. Our material long-term cash requirements primarily consist of mandatory interest payments pursuant to our Credit Facility and lease commitments and cash that we will redeploy in connection with our acquisitions of Gilat and UHP. We have historically met both our short-term and long-term cash requirements with funds provided by a combination of cash and cash equivalent balances, cash generated from operating activities and cash generated from financing transactions. Based on our anticipated level of future sales and operating income, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalent balances, our cash generated from operating activities and amounts potentially available under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet both our currently anticipated short-term and long-term operating cash requirements. Although it is difficult in the current economic and credit environment to predict the terms and conditions of financing that may be available in the future, should our short-term or long-term cash requirements increase beyond our current expectations, we believe that we would have sufficient access to credit from financial institutions and/or financing from public and private debt and equity markets. Credit Facility On October 31, 2018 , we entered into a First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of lenders, replacing our prior Credit Agreement dated as of February 23, 2016 (as amended by that certain First Amendment, dated as of June 6, 2017 (the "Prior Credit Facility")). The Credit Facility provides a senior secured loan facility of up to $550.0 million consisting of: (i) a revolving loan facility ("Revolving Loan Facility") with a borrowing limit of $300.0 million ; (ii) an accordion feature allowing us to borrow up to an additional $250.0 million ; (iii) a $35.0 million letter of credit sublimit; and (iv) a swingline loan credit sublimit of $25.0 million . The Credit Facility matures on October 31, 2023 (the "Revolving Maturity Date"). If we issue new unsecured debt in excess of $5.0 million with a maturity date that is less than 91 days from October 31, 2023 , the Revolving Maturity Date would automatically accelerate so that it would be 91 days earlier than the maturity date of the new unsecured debt. The proceeds of the Credit Facility were used, in part, to repay in full the outstanding borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility, and additional proceeds of the Credit Facility are expected to be used by us for working capital and other general corporate purposes. As of April 30, 2020 , the amount outstanding under our Credit Facility was $159.4 million , which is reflected in the non-current portion of long-term debt on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. At April 30, 2020 , we had $2.7 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts and no outstanding commercial letters of credit. During the nine months ended April 30, 2020 , we had outstanding balances under the Credit Facility ranging from $137.0 million to $174.0 million . 60 Index Borrowings under the Credit Facility shall be either: (i) Alternate Base Rate borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined) in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate (as defined) in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1.00% per annum and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate (as defined) on such day (or, if such day is not a business day, the immediately preceding business day) plus 1.00% per annum, plus (y) the Applicable Rate (as defined), or (ii) Eurodollar borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such interest period plus (y) the Applicable Rate. Determination of the Applicable Rate is based on a pricing grid that is dependent upon our Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined) as of the end of each fiscal quarter for which consolidated financial statements have been most recently delivered. The Credit Facility contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants. The Credit Facility also contains customary negative covenants, subject to negotiated exceptions, including but not limited to: (i) liens, (ii) investments, (iii) indebtedness, (iv) significant corporate changes, including mergers and acquisitions, (v) dispositions, (vi) restricted payments, including stockholder dividends, and (vii) certain other restrictive agreements. The Credit Facility also contains certain financial covenants and customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate), such as payment defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency, the occurrence of a defined change in control and the failure to observe the negative covenants and other covenants related to the operation of our business. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be required to enter into amendments to the Credit Facility in connection with any further syndication of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility provides for, among other things: (i) no scheduled payments of principal until maturity; (ii) a maximum Secured Leverage Ratio of 3.75 x trailing twelve months ("TTM") Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted EBITDA") and a Maximum Total Leverage Ratio of 4.50 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA, each with no step downs; and (iii) a Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 3.25 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. As of April 30, 2020 , our Secured Leverage Ratio was 1.93 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the maximum allowable Secured Leverage Ratio of 3.75 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. Our Interest Expense Coverage Ratio as of April 30, 2020 was 13.37 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 3.25 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. The obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantors"). As collateral security under the Credit Facility and the guarantees thereof, we and the Guarantors have granted to the administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a lien on, and first priority security interest in, substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets. On December 6, 2018, we entered into the first amendment to the Credit Facility. The purpose of the amendment was to provide for a mechanism to replace the LIBO Rate for Eurodollar borrowings with an alternative benchmark interest rate, should the LIBO Rate generally become unavailable in the future on an other-than-temporary basis. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Credit Facility and the Prior Credit Facility, which have been documented and filed with the SEC. As discussed in the section above entitled " Liquidity and Capital Resources " in connection with our agreement to acquire Gilat, we entered into an $800 million debt commitment letter with a syndicate of banks, the terms of which will be finalized on or prior to the closing of the merger. This facility is expected to replace our existing Credit Facility. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS As of April 30, 2020 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. COMMITMENTS In the normal course of business, other than as discussed below, we routinely enter into binding and non-binding purchase obligations primarily covering anticipated purchases of inventory and equipment. We do not expect that these commitments, as of April 30, 2020 , will materially adversely affect our liquidity. 61 Index At April 30, 2020 , cash payments due under long-term obligations (including estimated interest expense on our Credit Facility), excluding purchase orders that we entered into in our normal course of business, are as follows: Obligations Due by Fiscal Years or Maturity Date (in thousands) Total Remainder of 2020 2021 and 2022 2023 and 2024 After 2024 Credit Facility - principal payments $ 159,400 159,400 Credit Facility - interest payments 15,672 1,155 8,941 5,576 Operating lease liabilities 37,634 2,666 16,846 11,109 7,013 Finance lease and other obligations 471 471 Contractual cash obligations $ 213,177 4,292 25,787 176,085 7,013 As discussed further in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (11) - Credit Facility ," our Credit Facility provides a senior secured loan facility of up to $550.0 million consisting of: (i) a revolving loan facility ("Revolving Loan Facility") with a borrowing limit of $300.0 million; (ii) an accordion feature allowing us to borrow up to an additional $250.0 million; (iii) a $35.0 million letter of credit sublimit; and (iv) a swingline loan credit sublimit of $25.0 million. The Credit Facility matures on October 31, 2023 (the "Revolving Maturity Date"). In addition, if we issue new unsecured debt in excess of $5.0 million with a maturity date that is less than 91 days from October 31, 2023, the Revolving Maturity Date would automatically accelerate so that it would be 91 days earlier than the maturity date of the new unsecured debt. As discussed further in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (18) - Stockholders Equity," on June 3, 2020 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on August 14, 2020 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 15, 2020 . Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility, as amended, as well as Board approval. At April 30, 2020, we have approximately $2.7 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts. Such amounts are not included in the above table. As discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (2) - Acquisitions," we have a signed agreement to acquire Gilat. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each Gilat ordinary share will be converted into the right to receive consideration of (i) $7.18 in cash, without interest, plus (ii) 0.08425 of a share of Comtech common stock, with cash payable in lieu of fractional shares. Based on such consideration, on January 29, 2020, the date we entered into the Merger Agreement, Gilat had an enterprise value of approximately $532.5 million. We expect to fund the Gilat acquisition by redeploying a portion of both our and Gilat's combined unrestricted cash and cash equivalents with the remaining funds provided by a new $800.0 million Gilat Acquisition Related Credit Facility (See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 11 - "Credit Facility" ), the exact terms of which are expected to be finalized on or prior to the closing of the merger. After closing and including estimated transaction fees of $31.7 million , we expect to have approximately $50.0 million of cash on hand. Also, as discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (2) - Acquisitions," we have amended our agreement to acquire UHP. The amended agreement provides, among other things, the payment of $5.0 million of cash with the remaining purchase of $33.0 million to be paid in our common stock, cash, or a combination of both, at our option at the time of closing. In the ordinary course of business, we include indemnification provisions in certain of our customer contracts. Pursuant to these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify, hold harmless and reimburse the indemnified party for certain losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, including but not limited to losses related to third-party intellectual property claims. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these agreements due to a history of nominal claims in the Comtech legacy business and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As discussed further in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (19) - Legal Proceedings and Other Matters ," TCS is subject to a number of indemnification demands and we are incurring ongoing legal expenses in connection with these matters. Our insurance policies may not cover the cost of defending indemnification claims or providing indemnification. As a result, pending or future claims asserted against us by a party that we have agreed to indemnify could result in legal costs and damages that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 62 Index We have change in control agreements, severance agreements and indemnification agreements with certain of our executive officers and certain key employees. All of these agreements may require payments by us, in certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in control of our Company or an involuntary termination of employment without cause. Our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of April 30, 2020 includes total liabilities of $8.3 million for uncertain tax positions, including interest, any or all of which may result in a cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of any potential cash settlement with the taxing authorities. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS We are required to prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") which is the source for all authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which is commonly referred to as "GAAP." The FASB ASC is subject to updates by the FASB, which are known as Accounting Standards Updates ("ASUs"). As further discussed in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (3) - Adoption of Accounting Standards and Updates ," during the nine months ended April 30, 2020 , we adopted: FASB ASU No. 2016-02 - Leases (Topic 842). See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (12) - Leases" for further information. FASB ASU No. 2017-11, which provides guidance on the accounting for certain financial instruments with embedded features that result in the strike price of the instrument or embedded conversion option being reduced on the basis of the pricing of future equity offerings (commonly referred to as "down round" features). On August 1, 2019, we adopted this ASU. Our adoption did not have any impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures, as we did not have any financial instruments with such "down round" features. FASB ASU No. 2017-12, which expands and refines hedge accounting for both non-financial and financial risk components and simplifies and aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements. On August 1, 2019, we adopted this ASU. Our adoption did not have any impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures, as we are not a party to any such hedging transactions. FASB ASU No. 2018-07, which expands the scope of ASC 718 to include certain share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. On August 1, 2019, we adopted this ASU. Our adoption did not have any impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures, as we did not have any outstanding share-based awards with nonemployees that required remeasurement. FASB ASU No. 2018-16, which expands the list of eligible U.S. benchmark interest rates permitted in the application of hedge accounting due to broad concerns about the long-term sustainability of the LIBO Rate. This ASU adds the Overnight Index Swap ("OIS") rate, based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"), as an eligible U.S. benchmark interest rate. On August 1, 2019, we adopted this ASU. Our adoption did not have any impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures, as we are not a party to any such hedging transactions. 63 Index In addition, the following FASB ASUs have been issued and incorporated into the FASB ASC and have not yet been adopted by us as of April 30, 2020 : FASB ASU No. 2016-13 issued in June 2016 and ASU No. 2018-19 issued in November 2018, which require the measurement of expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date to be based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. In April 2019, FASB ASU No. 2019-04 was issued to provide clarification guidance in the following areas: (i) accrued interest; (ii) recoveries; (iii) projections of the interest rate environment; (iv) consideration of prepayments; and (v) other topics. In May 2019, FASB ASU No. 2019-05 was issued to provide entities with an option to irrevocably elect the fair value option applied on an instrument by instrument basis for eligible instruments. In November 2019, FASB ASU No. 2019-11 was issued to provide clarification guidance in the following areas: (i) expected recoveries for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration; (ii) transition relief for troubled debt restructurings; (iii) disclosures related to accrued interest receivables; (iv) financial assets secured by collateral maintenance provisions; and (v) conforming amendment to subtopic 805-20. In February 2020, FASB ASU No. 2020-02 was issued to address questions primarily regarding documentation and company policies. In March 2020, FASB ASU No. 2020-03 was issued to provide clarification guidance in the following areas (i) the contractual term of a net investment in a lease should be the contractual term used to measure expected credit losses; (ii) when an entity regains control of financial assets sold, an allowance for credit losses should be recorded. These ASUs are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020), including interim periods within those fiscal years. All entities may adopt the amendments in this ASU earlier as of the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Except for a prospective transition approach required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date, an entity will apply the amendments in this ASU through a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective (that is, on a modified-retrospective approach). We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2018-13, issued in August 2018, which modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements in Topic 820. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020). Upon the effective date, certain provisions are to be applied prospectively, while others are to be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. An entity is permitted to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statement disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2018-15, issued in August 2018, which aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal use software license). The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments in this ASU. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020), and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period. This ASU should be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2018-17, issued in October 2018, which requires entities to consider indirect interests held through related parties under common control on a proportional basis, rather than as the equivalent of a direct interest in its entirety when determining whether a decision-making fee is a variable interest. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020) and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures; however, we do not expect the adoption to have any effect given that we currently do not have any indirect interests held through related parties under common control. FASB ASU No. 2018-18, issued in November 2018, which clarifies when certain transactions between collaborative arrangement participants should be accounted for under ASC 606 and incorporates unit-of-account guidance consistent with ASC 606 to aid in this determination. The ASU also precludes entities from presenting consideration from transactions with a collaborator that is not a customer together with revenue recognized from contracts with customers. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020) and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures; however, we do not expect the adoption to have any effect given that we are currently not engaged in such collaborative arrangement transactions. 64 Index FASB ASU No. 2019-08, issued in November 2019, which requires that an entity measure and classify share-based payment awards granted to a customer by applying the guidance in Topic 718. The amount recorded as a reduction of the transaction price is required to be measured on the basis of the grant-date fair value of the share-based payment award. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020) and interim periods therein. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures; however, we do not expect the adoption to have any effect given that we have not historically issued such share-based awards to customers. FASB ASU No. 2019-12, issued in December 2019 is intended to simplify various aspects related to accounting for income taxes. ASU 2019-12 removes certain exceptions to the general principles in Topic 740 and also clarifies and amends existing guidance to improve consistent application. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2021) and interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2020-01, issued in January 2020, clarifies the interactions between Topics 321, 323 and 815. This ASU clarifies that an entity should consider observable transactions that require it to either apply or discontinue the equity method of accounting for the purposes of applying the measurement alternative in accordance with Topic 321 immediately before applying or upon discontinuing the equity method. In addition, the amendments clarify the accounting for certain forward contracts and purchased options accounted for under Topic 815.This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2021) and interim periods therein. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures; however, we do not expect the adoption to have any effect given that we have not historically had equity method investments or purchased options and forward contracts to acquire investments.