ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, information relating to our future performance and financial condition, plans and objectives of our management and our assumptions regarding such future performance, financial condition, and plans and objectives that involve certain significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors not under our control which may cause our actual results, future performance and financial condition, and achievement of our plans and objectives to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: the possibility that the expected synergies and benefits from recent acquisitions will not be fully realized, or will not be realized within the anticipated time periods; the risk that the acquired businesses will not be integrated with Comtech successfully; the possibility of disruption from recent acquisitions, making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships or retain key personnel; the risk that Comtech will be unsuccessful in implementing a tactical shift in its Government Solutions segment away from bidding on large commodity service contracts and toward pursuing contracts for its niche products with higher margins; the nature and timing of our receipt of, and our performance on, new or existing orders that can cause significant fluctuations in net sales and operating results; the timing and funding of government contracts; adjustments to gross profits on long-term contracts; risks associated with international sales; rapid technological change; evolving industry standards; new product announcements and enhancements; changing customer demands and or procurement strategies; changes in prevailing economic and political conditions, including as a result of Russia's military incursion into Ukraine; changes in the price of oil in global markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with Comtech's legal proceedings, customer claims for indemnification, and other similar matters; risks associated with our obligations under our Credit Facility; risks associated with our large contracts; risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and related supply chain disruptions; and other factors described in this and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). OVERVIEW We are a leading global provider of next generation 911 emergency systems and secure wireless communications technologies to commercial and government customers around the world. Our solutions fulfill our customers' needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial. We manage our business through two reportable operating segments: Commercial Solutions - offers satellite ground station technologies (such as Single Channel per Carrier ("SCPC") and time division multiple access ("TDMA") modems and amplifiers), and public safety and location technologies (such as 911 call routing, 911 call handling and mapping solutions) to commercial customers and smaller government customers, such as state and local governments. This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment. Government Solutions - provides tactical satellite-based networks and ongoing support for complicated communications networks, troposcatter systems and solid-state, high-power amplifiers to large government end-users (including those of foreign countries), large international customers and domestic prime contractors. Our Quarterly Financial Information Quarterly and period-to-period sales and operating results may be significantly affected by either short-term or long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, our gross profit is affected by a variety of factors, including the mix of products, systems and services sold, production efficiencies, estimates of warranty expense, price competition and general economic conditions. Our gross profit may also be affected by the impact of any cumulative adjustments to contracts that are accounted for over time. 36 Index Our contracts with the U.S. government can be terminated for convenience by it at any time and orders are subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. Some of these contracts are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts and, as such, the U.S. government is not obligated to purchase any equipment or services under these contracts. We have, in the past, experienced and we continue to expect significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period. As such, comparisons between periods and our current results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each. Revenue Recognition. In accordance with FASB ASC 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606"), we record revenue in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for goods or services promised to customers. Under ASC 606, we follow a five-step model to: (1) identify the contract with our customer; (2) identify our performance obligations in our contract; (3) determine the transaction price for our contract; (4) allocate the transaction price to our performance obligations; and (5) recognize revenue using one of the following two methods: Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance. This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyers specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts). Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process. Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations. The selection of the method to measure progress requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services provided. In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs. Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. Costs to fulfill generally include direct labor, materials, subcontractor costs, other direct costs and an allocation of indirect costs. When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided. As a result, these modifications form part of an existing contract and we must update the transaction price and our measure of progress for the single performance obligation and recognize a cumulative catch-up to revenue and gross profits. For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations. This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment. Additionally, if the EAC process indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period that it becomes evident. Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly. The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our Government Solutions segment and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line within our Commercial Solutions segment. For service-based contracts in our public safety and location technologies product line, we also recognize revenue over time. These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide. Point in time - When a performance obligation is not satisfied over time, we must record revenue using the point in time accounting method which generally results in revenue being recognized upon shipment or delivery of a promised good or service to a customer. This generally occurs when we enter into short term contracts or purchase orders where items are provided to customers with relatively quick turn-around times. Modifications to such contracts and or purchase orders, which typically provide for additional quantities or services, are accounted for as a new contract because the pricing for these additional quantities or services are based on standalone selling prices. 37 . Index Point in time accounting is principally applied to contracts in our satellite ground station technologies product line (which includes satellite modems, solid-state and traveling wave tube amplifiers) and certain contracts for our solid-state, high-power RF amplifiers. The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery. In determining that our equipment has alternative use, we considered the underlying manufacturing process for our products. In the early phases of manufacturing, raw materials and work in process (including subassemblies) consist of common parts that are highly fungible among many different types of products and customer applications. Finished products are either configured to our standard configuration or based on our customers specifications. Finished products, whether built to our standard specification or to a customers specification, can be sold to a variety of customers and across many different end use applications with minimal rework, if needed, and without incurring a significant economic loss. When identifying a contract with our customer, we consider when it has approval and commitment from both parties, if the rights of the parties are identified, if the payment terms are identified, if it has commercial substance and if collectability is probable. When identifying performance obligations, we consider whether there are multiple promises and how to account for them. In our contracts, multiple promises are separated if they are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract. If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined into a single performance obligation. In some cases, we may also provide the customer with an additional service-type warranty, which we recognize as a separate performance obligation. Service-type warranties do not represent a significant portion of our consolidated net sales. When service-type warranties represent a separate performance obligation, the revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the extended warranty period. Our contracts, from time-to-time, may also include options for additional goods and services. To date, these options have not represented material rights to the customer as the pricing for them reflects standalone selling prices. As a result, we do not consider options we offer to be performance obligations for which we must allocate a portion of the transaction price. In many cases, we provide assurance-type warranty coverage for some of our products for a period of at least one year from the date of delivery. When identifying the transaction price, we typically utilize the contract's stated price as a starting point. The transaction price in certain arrangements may include estimated amounts of variable consideration, including award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. We estimate variable consideration as the amount to which we expect to be entitled, and we include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the estimation uncertainty is resolved. The estimation of this variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (e.g., historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available to us. When allocating the contracts transaction price, we consider each distinct performance obligation. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contracts transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, internal costs, profit objectives and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations. Most of our contracts with customers are denominated in U.S. dollars and typically are either firm fixed-price or cost reimbursable type contracts (including fixed-fee, incentive-fee and time-and-material type contracts). In almost all of our contracts with customers, we are the principal in the arrangement and report revenue on a gross basis. Transaction prices for contracts with U.S. domestic and international customers are usually based on specific negotiations with each customer and in the case of the U.S. government, sometimes based on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services in accordance with applicable regulations. 38 . Index The timing of revenue recognition, billings and collections results in receivables, unbilled receivables and contract liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for over time, amounts are billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals (e.g., monthly) or upon achievement of contractual milestones. For certain contracts with provisions that are intended to protect customers in the event we do not satisfy our performance obligations, billings occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in unbilled receivables. Under ASC 606, unbilled receivables constitute contract assets. On large long term contracts, and for contracts with international customers that do not do business with us regularly, payment terms typically require advanced payments and deposits. Under ASC 606, payments received from customers in excess of revenue recognized to date results in a contract liability. These contract liabilities are not considered to represent a significant financing component of the contract because we believe these cash advances and deposits are generally used to meet working capital demands which can be higher in the earlier stages of a contract. Also, advanced payments and deposits provide us with some measure of assurance that the customer will perform on its obligations under the contract. Under the typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for at a point in time, costs are accumulated in inventory until the time of billing, which generally coincides with revenue recognition. We recognize the incremental costs to obtain or fulfill a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset is one year or less. Incremental costs to obtain or fulfill contracts with an amortization period greater than one year were not material. As commissions payable to our internal sales and marketing employees or contractors are contingent upon multiple factors, such commissions are not considered direct costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and are expensed as incurred in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As for commissions payable to our third-party sales representatives related to long-term contracts, we do consider these types of commissions both direct and incremental costs to obtain and fulfill such contracts. Therefore, such types of commissions are included in total estimated costs at completion for such contracts and expensed over time through cost of sales on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which work has not been performed as of the end of a fiscal period. Remaining performance obligations, which we refer to as backlog, exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under IDIQ contracts. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . As of January 31, 2022, total goodwill recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $347.7 million (of which $270.4 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $77.3 million relates to our Government Solutions segment). Additionally, as of January 31, 2022, net intangibles recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $258.0 million (of which $214.1 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $43.9 million relates to our Government Solutions segment). Each of our two operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions in determining their estimated fair values. In accordance with FASB ASC 350, we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods. If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. On August 1, 2021 (the first day of our fiscal 2022), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value. In making this assessment, we considered, among other things, expectations of projected net sales and cash flows, assumptions impacting the weighted average cost of capital, trends in trading multiples of comparable companies, changes in our stock price and changes in the carrying values of our reporting units with goodwill. We also considered overall business conditions. 39 . Index In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches. The income approach, also known as the discounted cash flow ("DCF") method, utilizes the present value of cash flows to estimate fair value. The future cash flows for our reporting units were projected based on our estimates, at that time, of future revenues, operating income and other factors (such as working capital and capital expenditures). For purposes of conducting our impairment analysis, we assumed revenue growth rates and cash flow projections that are below our actual long-term expectations. The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows). A terminal value growth rate was applied to the final year of the projected period, which reflects our estimate of stable, perpetual growth. We then calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each reporting unit to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach. Under the market approach, we estimated a fair value based on comparable companies' market multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and factored in a control premium. Finally, we compared our estimates of fair values to our August 1, 2021 total public market capitalization and assessed implied control premiums based on our common stock price of $24.97 as of August 1, 2021. Based on our quantitative evaluation, we determined that our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 22.7% and 94.1%, respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and that neither of our two reporting units was at risk of failing the quantitative assessment. It is possible that, during the remainder of fiscal 2022 or beyond, business conditions (both in the U.S. and internationally) could deteriorate from the current state, our current or prospective customers could materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we currently anticipate, or our common stock price could fluctuate. Such fluctuation could be caused by uncertainty about the severity and length of the COVID-19 pandemic, and its impact on global activity. A significant decline in our customers' spending that is greater than we anticipate or a shift in funding priorities may also have a negative effect on future orders, sales, income and cash flows and we might be required to perform a quantitative assessment during fiscal 2022 or beyond. If assumed net sales and cash flow projections are not achieved in future periods or our common stock price significantly declines from current levels, our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units could be at risk of failing the quantitative assessment and goodwill and intangibles assigned to the respective reporting units could be impaired. In any event, we are required to perform the next annual goodwill impairment analysis on August 1, 2022 (the start of our fiscal 2023). If our assumptions and related estimates change in the future, or if we change our reporting unit structure or other events and circumstances change (e.g., a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock (considered on both absolute terms and relative to peers)), we may be required to record impairment charges when we perform these tests, or in other future periods. In addition to our impairment analysis of goodwill, we also review net intangible assets with finite lives when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. We believe that the carrying values of our net intangible assets were recoverable as of January 31, 2022. Any impairment charges that we may record in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Provision for Warranty Obligations. We provide warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long-term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment. We record a liability for estimated warranty expense based on historical claims, product failure rates and other factors. Costs associated with some of our warranties that are provided under long-term contracts are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs. There exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating warranty expenses, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. If we do not accurately estimate our warranty costs, any changes to our original estimates could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Accounting for Income Taxes. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. Our provision for income taxes is based on domestic (including federal and state) and international statutory income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions where we operate, permanent differences between financial reporting and tax reporting and available credits and incentives. We recognize potential interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. The U.S. federal government is our most significant income tax jurisdiction. 40 . Index Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and tax positions. We may be challenged upon review by the applicable taxing authority and positions taken by us may not be sustained. We recognize all or a portion of the benefit of income tax positions only when we have made a determination that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, based upon the technical merits of the position and other factors. For tax positions that are determined as more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, the tax benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The development of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and reserves for income tax positions requires consideration of timing and judgments about future taxable income, tax issues and potential outcomes, and are subjective critical estimates. A portion of our deferred tax assets consist of federal research and experimentation tax credit carryforwards, some of which was acquired in connection with prior acquisitions. No valuation allowance has been established on these deferred tax assets based on our evaluation that our ability to realize such assets has met the criteria of "more likely than not." We continuously evaluate additional facts representing positive and negative evidence in determining our ability to realize these deferred tax assets. In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our U.S. federal income tax returns for fiscal 2018 through 2020 are subject to potential future Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2017 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Research and Development Costs. We generally expense all research and development costs. Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other personnel-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs. Costs incurred internally in researching and developing software to be sold are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the software. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. Technological feasibility for our advanced communication software solutions is generally reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to customers and when we are able to validate the marketability of such product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. To date, capitalized internally developed software costs were not material. Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage trends. Other factors may also influence our provision, including decisions to exit a product line, technological change and new product development. These factors could result in a change in the amount of excess and obsolete inventory on hand. Additionally, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory was overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charge could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We perform credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness, as determined by our review of our customers current credit information. Generally, we will require cash in advance or payment secured by irrevocable letters of credit before an order is accepted from an international customer that we do not do business with regularly. In addition, we seek to obtain insurance for certain domestic and international customers. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. Because of our strong cash position and the nominal amount of interest we are earning on our cash and cash equivalents, we have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio. To-date, there has been no material changes in our credit portfolio as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic on worldwide business activities. Although our overall credit losses have historically been within the allowances we established, we cannot accurately predict our future credit loss experience, given the current poor business environment. Measurement of credit losses requires consideration of historical loss experience, including the need to adjust for changing business conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates and the financial health of specific customers. Future changes to the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. 41 . Index Business Outlook for Fiscal 2022 Second quarter highlights include: Consolidated net sales were $120.4 million, up 3.1% sequentially from the first quarter; GAAP net loss attributable to common stockholders was $23.5 million, and included $13.6 million of CEO leadership transition charges (of which $7.4 million related to amortization of stock-based awards) and $9.1 million related to our settled proxy contest, as discussed below; GAAP EPS loss of $0.89 and Non-GAAP EPS loss of $0.03; Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure discussed below) of $9.8 million, a 76.7% sequential increase; New bookings (also referred to as orders) of $102.9 million, a 19.2% sequential increase, resulting in a quarterly book-to-bill ratio of 0.86x (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales); Backlog of $611.1 million as of January 31, 2022, compared to $628.5 million as of October 31, 2021; Revenue visibility of approximately $1.2 billion. We measure this revenue visibility as the sum of our $611.1 million backlog plus the total unfunded value of certain multi-year contracts that we have received and from which we expect future orders; and Cash flows from operating activities of $4.8 million despite making $2.8 million of cash payments for our settled proxy contest. Non-GAAP financial measures discussed above are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the table included in the below section " Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 " and " Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended January 31, 2022 and 2021." On December 31, 2021, our Board of Directors appointed Michael D. Porcelain as Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Prior to that, Mr. Porcelain served as our President and Chief Operating Officer (COO). Also, on January 3, 2022, Mr. Porcelain was appointed to our Board of Directors, along with Wendi Carpenter and Mark Quinlan. CEO transition costs were $13.6 million and all expensed in the three and six months ended January 31, 2022. Of such amount, $10.3 million related to Mr. Kornberg's severance payments and benefits upon termination of his employment; the remainder related to Mr. Kornberg agreeing to serve as a Senior Technology Advisor for a minimum of two years. Of the total CEO transition costs of $13.6 million, $7.4 million relates to the amortization of equity-classified stock-based awards. During the three and six months ended January 31, 2022, we also incurred $9.1 million and $11.2 million, respectively, of proxy solicitation costs. The second quarter of fiscal year 2022 was transformative for Comtech. We have new leadership, welcomed new independent members to our Board of Directors, furthered plans to deploy the proceeds of our $100.0 million strategic growth investment, and continued to solidify our position as a leading solutions provider in our two key end-markets: Next Generation 911 Public Safety and Satellite and Space Communications. Both are at the beginning of a long-term investment and upgrade cycle, and the demand environment, despite short-term headwinds, for our products remains strong. Although we are optimistic about the future, we know that we face short-term challenges and continued uncertainties in the second half of our fiscal 2022. The repercussions of the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine are significant. For Comtech, the current conflict is directly impacting short-term elements of our sales pipelines. Certain customers have paused procurement and deployment of satellite and troposcatter communication systems, and instead began purchasing war-fighting equipment, such as anti-tank missiles and other lethal equipment. The U.S. defense budget, and defense budgets worldwide, are now being adjusted in real-time to reflect the priorities of war and changing European geopolitics. Given the economic sanctions against Russia and the daily evolution of the situation on the ground, we are assuming no new sales to Russia for the remainder of fiscal 2022, which translates into roughly a $5.0 million reduction in order flow. We are actively hiring new employees to replace certain support activities previously conducted in Russia. In addition, we have asset exposure (primarily cash and accounts receivables) of approximately $1.5 million. 42 . Index As indicated above, the Russia/Ukraine military conflict and geopolitical uncertainty in Europe have created a new set of pressures. For us, we have specifically changed our expectations related to bookings and revenues associated with large orders for our Comtech COMET troposcatter systems that were originally going to be deployed in one European country, which we are now disclosing as Ukraine. Funding was expected to be provided by the customer and the U.S. government. Despite ongoing and intense efforts to obtain immediate funding to deploy COMET and other satellite related systems, it has now become impossible for us to predict the timing or dollar amount of these awards for the remainder of fiscal 2022. Additionally, anticipated funding for other expected orders, including for our satellite and space communication products, has been shifted to other programs and/or temporarily delayed as a result of a change in defense spending priorities. Like many other companies around the world, we are working around supply chain constraints that include component shortages and quality issues, as well as delays. Additionally, we are dealing with inflation. Freight costs were already impacted by COVID-19 issues and higher oil prices have not helped. Component prices are up significantly and freight costs, in some cases, have doubled. In light of these developments and resulting challenges we have lowered our financial targets for fiscal 2022 and are now targeting consolidated net sales to approximate $520.0 million with Adjusted EBITDA approximating $50.0 million or 9.6% of expected sales. This compares to our prior financial targets which consisted of a revenue range of $580.0 million to $600.0 million and an Adjusted EBITDA range of $70.0 million to $76.0 million, respectively. On a consolidated basis, financial performance during the second half of fiscal 2022 is still expected to improve versus the first half of fiscal 2022 with the fourth quarter still being the peak quarter of performance. Our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2022 are anticipated to reflect a higher percentage of total Commercial Solutions segment sales due to strong demand for our public safety and location technology solutions, including work on our recent contracts to design, deploy and operate NG-911 services for the states of South Carolina and Pennsylvania, and incremental contributions from our fiscal 2021 acquisition of TDMA modem technologies. Sales in our Government Solutions segment are expected to decline year-over-year and reflect the impact of the recently completed withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan and other U.S. government program changes, as well as the impact of the Russia/Ukraine military conflict and geopolitical uncertainty in Europe on previously anticipated orders. As global supply chain constraints have extended lead times for certain parts, we are closely monitoring our inventory needs and supplier base. We cautiously anticipate that supply chain constraints will begin to ease over the next several fiscal quarters; however, such timing could be impacted by the Russia/Ukraine military conflict and geopolitical uncertainty in Europe. While we have been judicious, we have been investing in our future and will continue to do so. This includes making significant capital expenditures and building out cloud-based computer networks to support our previously announced NG-911 contract wins for the states of Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Arizona. We will also continue investments in capital equipment and building improvements in connection with the opening of a new 146,000 square foot facility in Chandler, Arizona and the establishment of a new 56,000 square foot facility in Basingstoke, United Kingdom. Although COVID-19 and supply chain issues have extended our original build-out schedule, both manufacturing centers are expected to support production of next-generation broadband satellite technology, and should be operational by early fiscal 2023. With respect to capital investments for these and other initiatives, we expect to spend approximately $30.0 million in fiscal 2022. In the first half of fiscal 2022, we have spent $8.8 million in property, plant and equipment. GAAP operating income in fiscal 2022 will be impacted by greater than normal proxy solicitation costs, as well as CEO transition costs, as discussed above. In addition, our GAAP operating income in fiscal 2022 will be impacted by both start-up manufacturing expenses and restructuring costs associated with the opening of our two new high-volume technology manufacturing centers, as well as COVID-19 related costs. Global supply chain issues cause the amount and timing of these expenses difficult to predict. Because the amount and timing of these costs remains largely unpredictable, we are not providing GAAP operating income, GAAP net income or any GAAP EPS guidance or a reconciliation of our projected results to the most comparable GAAP measure, as such a reconciliation cannot be prepared without unreasonable effort. For the same reasons, we are unable to address the probable significance of the unavailable information, which could be material to future results. On March 10, 2022, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on May 20, 2022 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 20, 2022. Future common stock dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility, as well as Board approval and certain voting rights of holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. 43 . Index Additional information related to our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2022 and a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA is included in the below section " Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 " and " Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended January 31, 2022 and 2021." COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2022 AND 2021 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $120.4 million and $161.3 million for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, representing a decrease of $40.9 million, or 25.4%. The period-over-period decrease in net sales reflects lower net sales in both of our segments, as further discussed below. Commercial Solutions Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were $81.3 million for the three months ended January 31, 2022, as compared to $87.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2021, a decrease of $6.5 million, or 7.4%. Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 67.5% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to 54.4% for the three months ended January 31, 2021. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) for this segment was 0.90x. Period-to-period fluctuations in bookings are normal for this segment. Net sales in the three months ended January 31, 2022 of our satellite ground station technologies were lower than the three months ended January 31, 2021. This product line continues to be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic's effect on customer demand, particularly in international markets, which historically represents a large majority of end-users for this product line. Our results for the second quarter of fiscal 2022 include nominal sales from our TDMA satellite networking technologies acquired on March 2, 2021. We continue to monitor our inventory needs and navigate supply chain constraints which are impacting the timing of new orders, deliveries and installations. In addition, we expect to make no sales to Russian customers for the rest of fiscal 2022. As such, we expect sales of our satellite earth station products in fiscal 2022 to decline as compared to fiscal 2021. Net sales in the three months ended January 31, 2022 of our public safety and location technology solutions were higher than the three months ended January 31, 2021, reflecting increased sales of our NG-911 services and location-based technology solutions. As a result of the Omicron surge across Europe and the U.S. during the three months ended January 31, 2022, several opportunities were delayed. Nevertheless, we have a number of large opportunities in our pipeline and long-term demand for our products and services appears strong. We are awaiting funding on a large NG-911 contract that we have already been awarded (and which is not in our backlog) and remain in negotiations with several other potential customers. Timing of these awards are difficult to predict. Although public safety and location technology solutions have long sales cycles and are subject to difficult-to-predict changes in the overall procurement strategies of wireless carrier and NG-911 customers, we believe that sales of our NG-911 solutions will be higher than the amount we achieved in fiscal 2021. Overall, based on expected new order flow, we expect that fiscal 2022 net sales for this segment will be lower than the amount we achieved in fiscal 2021. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Commercial Solutions segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Government Solutions Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $39.1 million for the three months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to $73.5 million for the three months ended January 31, 2021, a decrease of $34.4 million or 46.8%. Our Government Solutions segment represented 32.5% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to 45.6% for the three months ended January 31, 2021. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) in this segment for the three months ended January 31, 2022 was 0.76x. Period-to-period fluctuations in bookings are normal for this segment. 44 . Index Net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2022 primarily reflect significantly lower sales of global field support services, advanced VSAT products and other programs to the U.S. Army, offset in part by higher sales of our satellite-based mobile communications and tracking systems, high reliability Electrical, Electronic and Electromechanical ("EEE") satellite-based space components and solid-state, high-power amplifiers. Net sales during the three months ended January 31, 2021 included performance on our 10-year, $211.0 million IDIQ contract awarded to us by a prime contractor to provide next-generation troposcatter systems in support of the U.S. Marine Corps. There were no corresponding sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2022, as we continue to expect the next round of funding on this IDIQ contract during the second half of fiscal 2022. As result of the U.S. governments decision to fully withdraw troops from Afghanistan and make certain program changes, we are expecting a decline in overall revenues in our Government Solutions segment in fiscal 2022, as compared to fiscal 2021. In addition, as a direct result of the Russia/Ukraine military conflict, we no longer expect to receive and ship a previously expected order to Ukraine. That customer had an immediate need for wireless communication services and has redirected procurement dollars to war-fighting equipment. We have a number of other international troposcatter orders that we expect to close soon, and we are expecting the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 to benefit from such sales. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Government Solutions segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our U.S. and international government customers. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Geography and Customer Type Sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of related sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 are as follows: Three months ended January 31, 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Consolidated U.S. government 15.1 % 19.2 % 51.9 % 74.2 % 27.1 % 44.2 % Domestic 62.2 % 54.6 % 17.3 % 9.1 % 47.6 % 33.9 % Total U.S. 77.3 % 73.8 % 69.2 % 83.3 % 74.7 % 78.1 % International 22.7 % 26.2 % 30.8 % 16.7 % 25.3 % 21.9 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. Included in domestic sales are sales to Verizon, which accounted for 11.1% and 10.0% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. International sales for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $30.5 million and $35.3 million, respectively. Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021. Gross Profit. Gross profit was $45.9 million and $55.7 million for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2022 was 38.1% as compared to 34.5% for the three months ended January 31, 2021. The increase in gross margins primarily relates to overall favorable product mix. In addition, during the three months ended January 31, 2022, we recorded a $2.5 million benefit to cost of sales as we reduced a warranty accrual due to lower than expected warranty claims in our NG-911 product line. Our gross profit in both periods also reflects start-up costs associated with the opening of our new high-volume technology manufacturing centers, as well as increased costs resulting from the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below. 45 . Index Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2022 was comparable to the three months ended January 31, 2021. The gross profit percentage in the most recent quarter primarily reflects changes in products and services mix and lower than expected warranty claims, as discussed above, as well as lower levels of factory utilization and higher logistics and operational costs resulting from global supply chain constraints. Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2022 increased in comparison to the three months ended January 31, 2021 and reflects changes in product and services mix in the most recent quarter, as discussed above. Also, during the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we incurred $0.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively, of incremental operating costs related to our antenna facility located in the United Kingdom due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Although operations in the United Kingdom have largely resumed, we continue to experience lingering impacts from COVID-19 and the shut-down in fiscal 2021. Included in consolidated cost of sales for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $1.1 million and $1.4 million, respectively. As discussed in "Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory," we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage trends. Our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each segment, and therefore is inherently difficult to forecast. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $29.8 million and $29.5 million for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 24.8% and 18.3% for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. During the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we incurred $1.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, of restructuring costs to streamline our operations, including costs related to the ongoing relocation of certain of our satellite earth station production facilities to a new 146,000 square foot facility in Chandler, Arizona. Excluding restructuring costs, selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 would have been $28.1 million, or 23.3% and $28.9 million, or 17.9%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. The increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is primarily due to lower consolidated net sales. Our selling, general and administrative expenses incurred during the three months ended January 31, 2022 reflect higher labor costs associated with a tight global labor market, increased investments in marketing, including new social media activities and other investments we are making to achieve our long term business goals. Such spending is expected to continue during the second half of fiscal 2022. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $1.8 million in the three months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to $1.2 million in the three months ended January 31, 2021. Such amortization for the most recent quarter includes $0.8 million related to the retirement, in December 2021, of three, long-standing members of the Board of Directors. Amortization of stock-based compensation is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $12.6 million and $12.7 million for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 10.5% and 7.9% for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. For the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, research and development expenses of $11.5 million and $10.3 million, respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment, and $1.0 million and $2.3 million, respectively, related to our Government Solutions segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million in both the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, customers reimbursed us $2.7 million and $3.9 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. 46 . Index Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $5.3 million (of which $4.3 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $1.0 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and $4.8 million (of which $4.3 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $0.5 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended January 31, 2021. Proxy Solicitation Costs . During the three months ended January 31, 2022, we incurred $9.1 million of proxy solicitation costs (including legal and advisory fees and costs associated with a related lawsuit) in our Unallocated segment as a result of a now settled proxy contest initiated by a shareholder during the first quarter of fiscal 2022. There were no similar costs in the comparable period of the prior year. During the most recent fiscal quarter, we entered into a Cooperation Agreement with such shareholder and do not expect to incur significant proxy solicitation costs during the remainder of fiscal 2022. CEO Transition Costs . On December 31, 2021, our Board of Directors appointed Mr. Porcelain as CEO. Prior to that, Mr. Porcelain served as our President and COO. Also, on January 3, 2022, Mr. Porcelain was appointed to our Board of Directors, along with Wendi Carpenter and Mark Quinlan. CEO transition costs were $13.6 million and all expensed in our Unallocated segment in the three months ended January 31, 2022. Of such amount, $10.3 million related to our former CEO's severance payments and benefits upon termination of his employment; the remainder related to our former CEO agreeing to serve as a Senior Technology Advisor for a minimum of two years. There were no similar costs in the comparable period of the prior year. Acquisition Plan Expenses. During the three months ended January 31, 2021, we incurred $3.4 million of acquisition plan expenses in our Unallocated segment related to the acquisition of TDMA satellite networking technologies and to GD NG-911 acquisition-related litigation. There were no similar costs incurred during the three months ended January 31, 2022. Operating Income (Loss). Operating loss for the three months ended January 31, 2022 was $24.6 million as compared to operating income of $5.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2021. Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is shown in the table below: Three months ended January 31, 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Operating income (loss) $ 4.6 9.4 (0.2) 5.5 (28.9) (9.4) $ (24.6) 5.4 Percentage of related net sales 5.7 % 10.7 % NA 7.5 % NA NA NA 3.3 % Our GAAP operating loss of $24.6 million for the three months ended January 31, 2022 reflects: (i) $13.6 million of CEO transition costs; (ii) $9.1 million of proxy solicitation costs; (iii) $1.7 million of restructuring costs; and (iv) $0.4 million of incremental operating costs due to the impact of COVID-19, as discussed above. Excluding such items, our consolidated operating income for the three months ended January 31, 2022 would have been $0.1 million. Our GAAP operating income of $5.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2021 reflects: (i) $3.4 million of acquisition plan expenses; (ii) $0.6 million of restructuring costs; and (iii) $0.2 million of incremental operating costs due to the impact of COVID-19, as discussed above. Excluding such items, our consolidated operating income for the three months ended January 31, 2021 would have been $9.5 million, or 5.9% of consolidated net sales. The decrease in operating income from $9.5 million to $0.1 million in the most recent quarter was primarily due to lower consolidated net sales, offset in part by a higher gross profit percentage, as discussed above. Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is further discussed below. The decrease in our Commercial Solutions segment operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2022 was driven primarily by lower net sales, higher restructuring costs and higher research and development expenses, offset in part by a benefit from lower than expected warranty claims during the most recent quarter, as discussed above. The decrease in our Government Solutions segment operating income for the three months ended January 31, 2022 was driven primarily by lower net sales, offset in part by a higher gross profit percentage and lower research and development expenses during the most recent quarter, as discussed above. 47 . Index The increase in unallocated expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2021 was primarily due to CEO transition costs, proxy solicitation costs and higher amortization of stock-based compensation expense due to retiring directors during the most recent quarter, offset in part by not having acquisition plan expenses in the three months ended January 31, 2022, as discussed above. Excluding the impact of CEO transition costs, proxy solicitation costs, the higher amortization of stock-based compensation expense, and acquisition plan expenses in their respective periods, unallocated expenses would have been $5.4 million and $6.0 million, respectively, for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021. It is difficult to predict GAAP operating results in fiscal 2022, as it will be impacted by both start-up expenses and restructuring costs associated with the opening of Comtechs new high-volume technology manufacturing centers and COVID-19 related costs. Interest Expense and Other. Interest expense was $1.0 million $1.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in the three months ended January 31, 2022 was approximately 3.4%. Our current cash borrowing rate (which excludes the amortization of deferred financing costs) under our existing Credit Facility approximates 1.9%. Interest (Income) and Other. Interest (income) and other for both the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 was nominal. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding an immaterial interest rate. Change in Fair Value of Convertible Preferred Stock Purchase Option Liability. During the three months ended January 31, 2022, we recorded a $0.4 million non-cash benefit from the remeasurement of the convertible preferred stock purchase option liability. See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (17) - Convertible Preferred Stock" for more information. Benefit from Income Taxes. Our income tax provision or benefit is computed by applying an estimated annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to ordinary income or loss for the reporting period (ordinary is generally defined as pre-tax income or loss excluding significant, unusual or infrequently occurring discrete tax items). For the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we recorded a tax benefit of $3.3 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Our effective tax rate (excluding discrete tax items) for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 was 19.75% and 17.0%, respectively. The increase is primarily due to expected product and geographical mix changes reflected in our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2022. For purposes of determining our 19.75% estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2022, CEO transition costs and proxy solicitation costs are considered significant, unusual or infrequently occurring discrete tax items and are excluded from the computation of our effective tax rate. During the three months ended January 31, 2022, we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $3.3 million, primarily related to proxy solicitation costs and the deductible portion of CEO transition costs. During the three months ended January 31, 2021, we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $0.8 million, primarily related to updating our effective tax rate for the fiscal year, as well as the finalization of certain tax accounts in connection with the filing of our fiscal 2020 Canadian income tax returns. Our U.S. federal income tax returns for fiscal 2018 through 2020 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2017 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Net (Loss) Income Attributable to Common Stockholders. During the three months ended January 31, 2022, consolidated net loss attributable to common stockholders was $23.5 million as compared to net income attributable to common stockholders of $4.2 million during the three months ended January 31, 2021. 48 . Index Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) for both the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 are shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): Three months ended January 31, 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Net income (loss) $ 4.6 9.3 (0.1) 5.7 (26.3) (10.8) $ (21.9) 4.2 (Benefit from) provision for income taxes (0.1) 0.2 (0.3) (3.1) (0.1) (3.3) (0.2) Interest (income) and other 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) Change in fair value of convertible preferred stock purchase option liability (0.4) (0.4) Interest expense 1.0 1.4 1.0 1.4 Amortization of stock-based compensation 2.0 1.3 2.0 1.3 Amortization of intangibles 4.3 4.3 1.1 0.5 5.3 4.8 Depreciation 1.9 1.9 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.1 2.3 2.5 CEO transition costs 13.6 13.6 Proxy solicitation costs 9.1 9.1 Restructuring costs 1.7 0.6 1.7 0.6 COVID-19 related costs 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.2 Acquisition plan expenses 3.4 3.4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 12.5 16.2 1.6 6.6 (4.3) (4.7) $ 9.8 18.1 Percentage of related net sales 15.4 % 18.5 % 4.1 % 9.0 % NA NA 8.1 % 11.2 % The decrease in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2021 is primarily attributable to lower consolidated net sales, partially offset by a higher gross profit percentage, as discussed above. The decrease in our Commercial Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is primarily due to lower net sales and higher research and development expenses, as discussed above. The decrease in our Government Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is primarily due to lower net sales, as discussed above. Because our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each segment as well as unallocated spending, it is inherently difficult to forecast. 49 . Index A reconciliation of our fiscal 2021 GAAP Net Loss to Adjusted EBITDA is shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): ($ in millions) Fiscal Year 2021 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Adjusted EBITDA: Net loss $ (73.5) Benefit from income taxes (1.5) Interest (income) and other (0.1) Interest expense 6.8 Amortization of stock-based compensation 10.0 Amortization of intangibles 21.0 Depreciation 9.4 Acquisition plan expenses 100.3 Restructuring costs 2.8 COVID-19 related costs 1.0 Strategic emerging technology costs 0.3 Adjusted EBITDA $ 76.5 Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other, change in fair value of the convertible preferred stock purchase option liability, write-off of deferred financing costs, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, estimated contract settlement costs, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses, restructuring costs, COVID-19 related costs, strategic emerging technology costs (for next-generation satellite technology), facility exit costs, CEO transition costs, proxy solicitation costs, strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA or Adjusted EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts. We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies. Our Non-GAAP measures reflect the GAAP measures as reported, adjusted for certain items as described herein and also excludes the effects of our outstanding convertible preferred stock. These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the tables presented herein, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings. We have not quantitatively reconciled our fiscal 2022 Adjusted EBITDA target to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because items such as stock-based compensation, adjustments to the provision for income taxes, amortization of intangibles and interest expense, which are specific items that impact these measures, have not yet occurred, are out of our control, or cannot be predicted. For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable. Accordingly, reconciliations to the Non-GAAP forward looking metrics are not available without unreasonable effort and such unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our financial results. Reconciliations of our GAAP consolidated operating (loss) income, net (loss) income attributable to common stockholders and net (loss) income per diluted common share for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 to the corresponding Non-GAAP measures are shown in the tables below (numbers and per share amounts in the tables may not foot due to rounding). Non-GAAP net (loss) income attributable to common stockholders and net (loss) income per diluted common share reflect Non-GAAP provisions for income taxes based on year-to-date results, as adjusted for the Non-GAAP reconciling items included in the tables below. We evaluate our Non-GAAP effective income tax rate on an ongoing basis, and it can change from time to time. Our Non-GAAP effective income tax rate can differ materially from our GAAP effective income tax rate. 50 . Index Three months ended January 31, 2022 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating (Loss) Income Net Loss Attributable to Common Stockholders Net Loss per Diluted Common Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ (24.6) $ (23.5) $ (0.89) Adjustments to reflect redemption value of convertible preferred stock 1.6 0.06 CEO transition costs 13.6 13.0 0.49 Proxy solicitation costs 9.1 7.0 0.27 Restructuring costs 1.7 1.4 0.05 COVID-19 related costs 0.4 0.3 0.01 Changed in fair value of convertible preferred stock purchase option liability (0.4) (0.02) Net discrete tax benefit (0.1) (0.01) Non-GAAP measures $ 0.1 $ (0.7) $ (0.03) Three months ended January 31, 2021 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating Income Net Income Net Income per Diluted Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ 5.4 $ 4.2 $ 0.17 Acquisition plan expenses 3.4 2.8 0.11 Restructuring costs 0.6 0.5 0.02 COVID-19 related costs 0.2 0.1 0.01 Net discrete tax benefit (0.8) (0.03) Non-GAAP measures $ 9.5 $ 6.8 $ 0.27 COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2022 AND 2021 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $237.1 million and $296.5 million for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, representing a decrease of $59.4 million, or 20.0%. The period-over-period decrease in net sales reflects lower net sales in both of our segments, as further discussed below. Commercial Solutions Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were $160.2 million for the six months ended January 31, 2022, as compared to $169.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2021, a decrease of $9.4 million, or 5.5%. Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 67.6% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to 57.2% for the six months ended January 31, 2021. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) for this segment was 0.84x. Period-to-period fluctuations in bookings are normal for this segment. Net sales in the six months ended January 31, 2022 of our satellite ground station technologies were lower than the six months ended January 31, 2021. This product line continues to be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic's effect on customer demand, particularly in international markets, which historically represents a large majority of end-users for this product line. Our results for the first half of fiscal 2022 include nominal sales from our TDMA satellite networking technologies acquired on March 2, 2021. We continue to monitor our inventory needs and navigate supply chain constraints which are impacting the timing of new orders, deliveries and installations. In addition, we expect to make no sales to Russian customers for the rest of fiscal 2022. As such, we expect sales of our satellite earth station products in fiscal 2022 to decline as compared to fiscal 2021. 51 . Index Net sales in the six months ended January 31, 2022 of our public safety and location technology solutions were higher than the six months ended January 31, 2021, reflecting increased sales of our NG-911 services and location-based technology solutions. As a result of the Omicron surge across Europe and the U.S. during the six months ended January 31, 2022, several opportunities were delayed. Nevertheless, we have a number of large opportunities in our pipeline and long-term demand for our products and services appears strong. We are awaiting funding on a large NG-911 contract that we have already been awarded (and which is not in our backlog) and remain in negotiations with several other potential customers. Timing of these awards are difficult to predict. Although public safety and location technology solutions have long sales cycles and are subject to difficult-to-predict changes in the overall procurement strategies of wireless carrier and NG-911 customers, we believe that sales of our NG-911 solutions will be higher than the amount we achieved in fiscal 2021. Overall, based on expected new order flow, we expect that fiscal 2022 net sales for this segment will be lower than the amount we achieved in fiscal 2021. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Commercial Solutions segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Government Solutions Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $76.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to $126.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2021, a decrease of $50.0 million or 39.4%. Our Government Solutions segment represented 32.4% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to 42.8% for the six months ended January 31, 2021. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) in this segment for the six months ended January 31, 2022 was 0.72x. Period-to-period fluctuations in bookings are normal for this segment. Net sales for the first half of fiscal 2022 primarily reflect significantly lower sales of global field support services, advanced VSAT products and other programs to the U.S. Army, offset in part by higher sales of our satellite-based mobile communications and tracking systems, high reliability EEE satellite-based space components and solid-state, high-power amplifiers. Net sales during the six months ended January 31, 2021 included performance on our 10-year, $211.0 million IDIQ contract awarded to us by a prime contractor to provide next-generation troposcatter systems in support of the U.S. Marine Corps. There were no corresponding sales in the first half of fiscal 2022, as we continue to expect the next round of funding on this IDIQ contract during the second half of fiscal 2022. As result of the U.S. governments decision to fully withdraw troops from Afghanistan and make certain program changes, we are expecting a decline in overall revenues in our Government Solutions segment in fiscal 2022, as compared to fiscal 2021. In addition, as a direct result of the Russia/Ukraine military conflict and geopolitical uncertainty in Europe, we no longer expect to receive and ship a previously expected order to Ukraine. That customer had an immediate need for wireless communication services and has redirected procurement dollars to war-fighting equipment. We have a number of other international troposcatter orders that we expect to close soon, and we are expecting the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 to benefit from such sales. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Government Solutions segment can fluctuate dramatically from perio d-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our U.S. and international government customers. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Geography and Customer Type Sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of related sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 are as follows: Six months ended January 31, 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Consolidated U.S. government 14.5 % 15.5 % 57.8 % 70.1 % 28.6 % 38.8 % Domestic 63.5 % 57.3 % 15.7 % 11.1 % 48.0 % 37.6 % Total U.S. 78.0 % 72.8 % 73.5 % 81.2 % 76.6 % 76.4 % International 22.0 % 27.2 % 26.5 % 18.8 % 23.4 % 23.6 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 52 . Index Sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the DoD, intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. Included in domestic sales are sales to Verizon, which accounted for 11.4% and 11.1% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. International sales for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $55.5 million and $69.9 million, respectively. Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021. Gross Profit. Gross profit was $87.6 million and $105.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2022 was 36.9% as compared to 35.7% for the six months ended January 31, 2021. The increase in gross margins primarily relates to overall favorable product mix. In addition, during the six months ended January 31, 2022, we recorded a $2.5 million benefit to cost of sales as we reduced a warranty accrual due to lower than expected warranty claims in our NG-911 product line. Our gross profit in both periods also reflects start-up costs associated with the opening of our new high-volume technology manufacturing centers, as well as increased costs resulting from the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below. Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2022 decreased slightly in comparison to the six months ended January 31, 2021. The gross profit percentage in the most recent six-month period primarily reflects changes in products and services mix and lower than expected warranty claims, as discussed above, as well as lower levels of factory utilization and higher logistics and operational costs resulting from global supply chain constraints. Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2022 decreased in comparison to the six months ended January 31, 2021 and reflects changes in products and services mix, as discussed above. Also, during the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we incurred $1.0 million and $0.2 million, respectively, of incremental operating costs related to our antenna facility located in the United Kingdom due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Although operations in the United Kingdom have largely resumed, we continue to experience lingering impacts from COVID-19 and the shut-down in fiscal 2021. Included in consolidated cost of sales for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $2.2 million and $2.4 million, respectively. As discussed in "Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory," we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage trends. Our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each segment, and therefore is inherently difficult to forecast. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $58.1 million and $57.0 million for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 24.5% and 19.2% for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. During the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we incurred $2.4 million and $0.6 million, respectively, of restructuring costs to streamline our operations, including costs related to the ongoing relocation of certain of our satellite earth station production facilities to a new 146,000 square foot facility in Chandler, Arizona. Excluding restructuring costs, selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 would have been $55.7 million or 23.5% and $56.4 million or 19.0%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. The increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is primarily due to lower consolidated net sales. Our selling, general and administrative expenses incurred during the six months ended January 31,2022 reflect higher labor costs associated with a tight global labor market, increased investments in marketing, including new social media activities and other investments we are making to achieve our long term business goals. Such spending is expected to continue during the second half of fiscal 2022. 53 . Index Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $2.6 million in the six months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to $1.7 million in the six months ended January 31, 2021. Such amortization for the six months ended January 31, 2022 includes $0.8 million related to the retirement, in December 2021, of three, long-standing members of the Board of Directors. Amortization of stock-based compensation is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $25.1 million and $24.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, representing an increase of $0.8 million, or 3.3%. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 10.6% and 8.2% for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. For the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, research and development expenses of $22.7 million and $19.7 million, respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment and $2.2 million and $4.4 million, respectively, related to our Government Solutions segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.2 million in both the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, customers reimbursed us $5.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Amortization of Intangibles . Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $10.7 million (of which $8.5 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $2.2 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and $10.4 million (of which $8.6 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $1.8 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the six months ended January 31, 2021. Proxy Solicitation Costs . During the six months ended January 31, 2022, we incurred $11.2 million of proxy solicitation costs (including legal and advisory fees and costs associated with a related lawsuit) in our Unallocated segment as a result of a now settled proxy contest initiated by a shareholder during the first quarter of fiscal 2022. There were no similar costs in the comparable period of the prior year. During the most recent fiscal quarter, we entered into a Cooperation Agreement with such shareholder and do not expect to incur significant proxy solicitation costs during the remainder of fiscal 2022. CEO Transition Costs . On December 31, 2021, our Board of Directors appointed Mr. Porcelain as CEO. Prior to that, Mr. Porcelain served as our President and COO. Also, on January 3, 2022, Mr. Porcelain was appointed to our Board of Directors, along with Wendi Carpenter and Mark Quinlan. CEO transition costs were $13.6 million and all expensed in our Unallocated segment in the six months ended January 31, 2022. Of such amount, $10.3 million related to our former CEO's severance payments and benefits upon termination of his employment; the remainder related to our former CEO agreeing to serve as a Senior Technology Advisor for a minimum of two years. There were no similar costs in the comparable period of the prior year. Acquisition Plan Expenses. During the six months ended January 31, 2021, we incurred $94.5 million of acquisition plan expenses, of which $88.3 million related to the previously announced litigation and merger termination with Gilat, including $70.0 million paid in cash to Gilat. The remaining costs primarily related to the acquisition of TDMA satellite networking technologies and to GD NG-911 acquisition-related litigation. These expenses are primarily recorded in our Unallocated segment. There were no similar costs incurred during the six months ended January 31, 2022. Operating Income (Loss). Operating loss for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 was $31.1 million and $80.3 million, respectively. Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is shown in the table below: Six months ended January 31, 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Operating income (loss) $ 6.8 18.1 (1.6) 8.0 (36.3) (106.5) $ (31.1) (80.3) Percentage of related net sales 4.2 % 10.7 % NA 6.3 % NA NA NA NA 54 . Index Our GAAP operating loss of $31.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2022 reflects: (i) $13.6 million of CEO transition costs; (ii) $11.2 million of proxy solicitation costs; (iii) $2.4 million of restructuring costs; and (iv) $1.0 million of incremental operating costs due to the impact of COVID-19, as discussed above. Excluding such items, our consolidated operating loss for the six months ended January 31, 2022 would have been $2.8 million. Our GAAP operating loss of $80.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2021 reflects: (i) $94.5 million of acquisition plan expenses; (ii) $0.6 million of restructuring costs; and (iii) $0.2 million of incremental operating costs due to the impact of COVID-19, as discussed above. Excluding such items, our consolidated operating income for the six months ended January 31, 2021 would have been $15.0 million, or 5.1% of consolidated net sales. The decrease in operating income from $15.0 million for the six months ended January 31, 2021 to an operating loss of $2.8 million for the six months ended January 31, 2022 was primarily due to lower consolidated net sales, as discussed above. Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is further discussed below. The decrease in our Commercial Solutions segment operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of the related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2022 was driven primarily by lower net sales and gross profit percentage and higher research and development expenses, as discussed above. The decrease in our Government Solutions segment operating income for the six months ended January 31, 2022 was driven primarily by lower net sales and gross profit percentage, partially offset by lower research and development expenses, as discussed above. The decrease in unallocated expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to the six months ended January 31, 2021 was primarily due to no acquisition plan expenses incurred during the most recent six-month period, partially offset by CEO transition costs and proxy solicitation costs during the six months ended January 31, 2022, as discussed above. Amortization of stock-based compensation was $2.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively, for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021. Stock-based compensation expense for the six months ended January 31, 2022 includes $0.8 million related to the retirement of three, long-standing Board members. Excluding the impact of CEO transition costs, proxy solicitation costs, the higher amortization of stock-based compensation expense and acquisition plan expenses in their respective periods, unallocated expenses would have been $10.7 million and $10.9 million, respectively, for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021. It is difficult to predict GAAP operating results in fiscal 2022 as it will be impacted by both start-up expenses and restructuring costs associated with the opening of Comtechs new high-volume technology manufacturing centers and COVID-19 related costs. Interest Expense and Other. Interest expense was $2.6 million and $3.7 million for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Interest expense for the six months ended January 31, 2021 includes $1.2 million of incremental interest expense related to a now terminated financing commitment letter. Our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in the six months ended January 31, 2022 was approximately 3.1%. Our current cash borrowing rate (which excludes the amortization of deferred financing costs) under our existing Credit Facility approximates 1.9%. Interest (Income) and Other. Interest (income) and other for both the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 was nominal. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding an immaterial interest rate. Change in Fair Value of Convertible Preferred Stock Purchase Option Liability. During the six months ended January 31, 2022, we recorded a $0.7 million non-cash benefit from the remeasurement of the convertible preferred stock purchase option liability. See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (17) - Convertible Preferred Stock" for more information. Benefit from Income Taxes. Our income tax provision or benefit is computed by applying an estimated annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to ordinary income or loss for the reporting period (ordinary is generally defined as pre-tax income or loss excluding significant, unusual or infrequently occurring discrete tax items). For the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we recorded a tax benefit of $5.3 million and $2.4 million, respectively. Our effective tax rate (excluding discrete tax items) for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 was 19.75% and 17.0%, respectively. The increase is primarily due to expected product and geographical mix changes reflected in our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2022. For purposes of determining our 19.75% estimated annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2022, CEO transition costs and proxy solicitation costs are considered significant, unusual or infrequently occurring discrete tax items and are excluded from the computation of our effective tax rate. 55 . Index During the six months ended January 31, 2022, we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $3.7 million, primarily related to proxy solicitation costs and the deductible portion of CEO transition costs. During the six months ended January 31, 2021, we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of less than $0.1 million. Our U.S. federal income tax returns for fiscal 2018 through 2020 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2017 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Net Loss Attributable to Common Stockholders. During the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, consolidated net loss attributable to common stockholders was $34.7 million and $81.6 million, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) for both the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 are shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): Six months ended January 31, 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Net income (loss) $ 6.6 17.6 (1.3) 8.4 (33.2) (107.6) $ (27.9) (81.6) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 0.6 (0.6) (0.4) (4.7) (2.5) (5.3) (2.4) Interest (income) and other 0.1 0.2 (0.1) 0.2 Change in fair value of convertible preferred stock purchase option liability (0.7) (0.7) Interest expense 0.1 0.1 2.5 3.7 2.6 3.7 Amortization of stock-based compensation 2.9 2.0 2.9 2.0 Amortization of intangibles 8.5 8.6 2.2 1.8 10.7 10.4 Depreciation 3.8 3.9 0.7 0.8 0.1 0.2 4.6 5.0 CEO transition costs 13.6 13.6 Proxy solicitation costs 11.2 11.2 Restructuring costs 2.5 0.6 (0.1) 2.4 0.6 COVID-19 related costs 1.0 0.2 1.0 0.2 Acquisition plan expenses (1.1) 95.6 94.5 Adjusted EBITDA $ 21.5 30.2 2.2 10.8 (8.4) (8.7) $ 15.3 32.3 Percentage of related net sales 13.4 % 17.8 % 2.9 % 8.5 % NA NA 6.5 % 10.9 % The decrease in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to the six months ended January 31, 2021 is primarily attributable to lower consolidated net sales, as discussed above. The decrease in our Commercial Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales is primarily due to lower net sales and gross profit percentage and higher research and development expenses, as discussed above. The decrease in our Government Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales is primarily due to lower net sales and gross profit percentage, partially offset by lower research and development expenses, as discussed above. Because our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each segment as well as unallocated spending, it is inherently difficult to forecast. 56 . Index A reconciliation of our fiscal 2021 GAAP Net Loss to Adjusted EBITDA is shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): ($ in millions) Fiscal Year 2021 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Adjusted EBITDA: Net loss $ (73.5) Benefit from income taxes (1.5) Interest (income) and other (0.1) Interest expense 6.8 Amortization of stock-based compensation 10.0 Amortization of intangibles 21.0 Depreciation 9.4 Acquisition plan expenses 100.3 Restructuring costs 2.8 COVID-19 related costs 1.0 Strategic emerging technology costs 0.3 Adjusted EBITDA $ 76.5 Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other, change in fair value of the convertible preferred stock purchase option liability, write-off of deferred financing costs, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, estimated contract settlement costs, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses, restructuring costs, COVID-19 related costs, strategic emerging technology costs (for next-generation satellite technology), facility exit costs, CEO transition costs, proxy solicitation costs, strategic alternatives analysis expenses and other. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA or Adjusted EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts. We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies. Our Non-GAAP measures reflect the GAAP measures as reported, adjusted for certain items as described herein and also excludes the effects of our outstanding convertible preferred stock. These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the tables presented herein, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings. We have not quantitatively reconciled our fiscal 2022 Adjusted EBITDA target to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because items such as stock-based compensation, adjustments to the provision for income taxes, amortization of intangibles and interest expense, which are specific items that impact these measures, have not yet occurred, are out of our control, or cannot be predicted. For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable. Accordingly, reconciliations to the Non-GAAP forward looking metrics are not available without unreasonable effort and such unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our financial results. 57 . Index Reconciliations of our GAAP consolidated operating (loss) income, net (loss) income attributable to common stockholders and net (loss) income per diluted common share for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 to the corresponding Non-GAAP measures are shown in the tables below (numbers and per share amounts in the tables may not foot due to rounding). Non-GAAP net (loss) income attributable to common stockholders and net (loss) income per diluted common share reflect Non-GAAP provisions for income taxes based on year-to-date results, as adjusted for the Non-GAAP reconciling items included in the tables below. We evaluate our Non-GAAP effective income tax rate on an ongoing basis, and it can change from time to time. Our Non-GAAP effective income tax rate can differ materially from our GAAP effective income tax rate. In addition, due to the GAAP net loss for the period, Non-GAAP EPS for the six months ended January 31, 2021 was computed using 25,365,000 weighted average diluted shares outstanding during the period. Six months ended January 31, 2022 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating Loss Net Loss Attributable to Common Stockholders Net Loss per Diluted Common Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ (31.1) $ (34.7) $ (1.31) Adjustments to reflect redemption value of convertible preferred stock 6.9 0.26 CEO transition costs 13.6 13.0 0.49 Proxy solicitation costs 11.2 8.7 0.33 Restructuring costs 2.4 2.0 0.07 COVID-19 related costs 1.0 0.8 0.03 Change in fair value of convertible preferred stock purchase option liability (0.7) (0.03) Net discrete tax benefit (0.5) (0.02) Non-GAAP measures $ (2.8) $ (4.6) $ (0.18) Six months ended January 31, 2021 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating (Loss) Income Net (Loss) Income Net (Loss) Income per Diluted Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ (80.3) $ (81.6) $ (3.22) Acquisition plan expenses 94.5 90.4 3.56 Restructuring costs 0.6 0.5 0.02 COVID-19 related costs 0.2 0.1 0.01 Interest expense 1.0 0.04 Non-GAAP measures $ 15.0 $ 10.3 $ 0.41 58 . Index LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our cash and cash equivalents were $30.9 million at both January 31, 2022 and July 31, 2021. For the six months ended January 31, 2022, our cash flows reflect the following: Net cash provided by operating activities was $9.6 million for the six months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to net cash used in operating activities of $63.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2021. During the six months ended January 31, 2021, in connection with an agreement to terminate our acquisition of Gilat, we made a $70.0 million payment to Gilat. Excluding such payment, net cash provided by operating activities would have been $6.6 million. The period-over-period increase in cash flow from operating activities (excluding the $70.0 million payment to Gilat) reflects overall changes in net working capital requirements, principally the timing of shipments, billings and payments. Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 was $8.8 million and $4.4 million, respectively. Net cash used in the six months ended January 31, 2022 primarily reflects capital expenditures to build-out cloud-based computer networks to support our recent NG-911 contract wins and capital investments and building improvements in connection with the opening of our new high-volume technology manufacturing centers. Net cash used in both periods also relates to expenditures for property, plant and equipment upgrades and enhancements. Net cash used in financing activities was $0.7 million for the six months ended January 31, 2022 as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $50.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2021. During the six months ended January 31, 2022, we received an aggregate of $100.0 million in proceeds related to the issuance of a new series of Convertible Preferred Stock to certain investors. During the six months ended January 31, 2022, we also made net payments under our Credit Facility of $86.5 million as compared to net borrowings under our Credit Facility of $58.5 million during the six months ended January 31, 2021, primarily related to the $70.0 million payment we made to Gilat. During the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we paid $5.8 million and $5.2 million, respectively, in cash dividends to our common stockholders. We also made $4.7 million and $2.7 million of payments to remit employees' statutory tax withholding requirements related to the net settlement of stock-based awards during the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The Credit Facility is discussed below and in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (10) Credit Facility. " The Convertible Preferred Stock is discussed below and in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (17) Convertible Preferred Stock. " Our investment policy relating to our cash and cash equivalents is intended to minimize principal loss while at the same time maximize the income we receive without significantly increasing risk. To minimize risk, we generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in money market mutual funds (both government and commercial), certificates of deposit, bank deposits, and U.S. Treasury securities. Many of our money market mutual funds invest in direct obligations of the U.S. government, bank securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, certificates of deposit and commercial paper and other securities issued by other companies. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we believe our investment policies are appropriate in the current environment. Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market. As of January 31, 2022, our material short-term cash requirements primarily consist of: (i) capital investments and building improvements in connection with the opening of our two new high-volume technology manufacturing centers; (ii) interest payments under our Credit Facility; (iii) payments related to lease commitments; (iv) our ongoing working capital needs, including income tax payments; (v) payment of accrued quarterly dividends on shares of our common stock; (vi) accrued CEO transition costs; and (vii) a cumulative 6.5% annual dividend on our Convertible Preferred Stock, which is payable in kind or in cash at our election. In addition to capital investments for our two new high-volume manufacturing centers, we continue to make significant capital expenditures to build-out cloud-based computer networks to support our previously announced NG-911 contract wins for the states of Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Arizona. Aggregate capital investments for these and other initiatives in fiscal 2022 are expected to approximate $30.0 million. In the first half of fiscal 2022, we have spent $8.8 million in property, plant and equipment. 59 . Index As discussed in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (2) - Acquisitions - UHP Networks Inc.," we completed our acquisition of UHP on March 2, 2021. Pursuant to the stock purchase agreement, during fiscal 2021, the initial up-front payment of approximately $24.0 million was paid mostly in shares of our common stock, with a nominal amount paid in cash. In August 2021, approximately $4.0 million of the $5.0 million hold back amount previously placed in escrow at closing was paid to the seller in shares of our common stock, as the conditions pursuant to the stock purchase agreement were met. The stock purchase agreement also provides for a contingent earn-out payment of up to $9.0 million, also payable at our option in cash and or shares of our common stock, if specified sales milestones are reached during a defined period ending September 30, 2022. On March 3, 2021, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC for the sale of 1,381,567 shares of our common stock by the selling shareholder of UHP. The shelf registration statement was declared effective by the SEC as of March 15, 2021. To-date, we have issued 1,026,567 shares of our common stock that is registered under this shelf registration statement to satisfy initial payment and escrow arrangements under the terms of the stock purchase agreement. The terms of the stock purchase agreement provide an ability for us to substitute cash in lieu of the common stock that was initially placed into escrow. On September 29, 2020, our Board of Directors authorized a new $100.0 million stock repurchase program, which replaced our prior program. The new $100.0 million stock repurchase program has no time restrictions and repurchases may be made from time to time in open-market or privately negotiated transactions, or by other means in accordance with federal securities laws. There were no repurchases of our common stock during the six months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021. On October 4, 2021 and December 9, 2021, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, which were paid on November 12, 2021 and February 18, 2022, respectively. On March 10, 2022, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on May 20, 2022 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 20, 2022. Future common stock dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility, as well as Board approval and certain voting rights of holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Our material cash requirements are for working capital, capital expenditures, income tax payments, debt service, facilities lease payments and dividends related to our Convertible Preferred Stock, which are payable in kind or in cash at our election. We have historically met our cash requirements with funds provided by a combination of cash and cash equivalent balances, cash generated from operating activities and cash generated from equity and debt financing transactions. In our fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2021, we secured a $100.0 million strategic growth investment to enhance our financial flexibility and strengthen our ability to capitalize on recent large contract awards and growing customer demand by making crucial investments in our satellite technologies and next-generation 911 public safety solutions. Based on our current revenue visibility, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalent balances, our cash generated from operating activities and amounts potentially available under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our short-term cash requirements. Our material cash requirements could increase beyond our current expectations due to factors such as general economic conditions, a change in government spending priorities, or larger than usual customer orders. In addition, we may choose to raise additional funds through equity and debt financing transactions to provide additional flexibility or to pursue acquisitions. Although it is difficult to predict the terms and conditions of financing that may be available in the future, we believe that we would have sufficient access to credit from financial institutions and/or financing from public and private debt and equity markets. Credit Facility On October 31, 2018, we entered into a First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of lenders. The Credit Facility provides a senior secured loan facility of up to $550.0 million consisting of: (i) a revolving loan facility ("Revolving Loan Facility") with a borrowing limit of $300.0 million; (ii) an accordion feature allowing us to make a request to borrow up to an additional $250.0 million subject to satisfaction of specified conditions, including approval by our lenders; (iii) a $35.0 million letter of credit sublimit; and (iv) a swingline loan credit sublimit of $25.0 million. The Credit Facility matures on October 31, 2023 (the "Revolving Maturity Date"). If we issue new unsecured debt in excess of $5.0 million with a maturity date that is less than 91 days from October 31, 2023, the Revolving Maturity Date would automatically accelerate so that it would be 91 days earlier than the maturity date of the new unsecured debt. 60 . Index As of January 31, 2022, the amount outstanding under our Credit Facility was $114.5 million, which is reflected in the non-current portion of long-term debt on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. At January 31, 2022, we had $1.0 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts and no outstanding commercial letters of credit. During the six months ended January 31, 2022, we had outstanding balances under the Credit Facility ranging from $100.0 million to $212.0 million. Borrowings under the Credit Facility shall be either: (i) Alternate Base Rate borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined) in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate (as defined) in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1.00% per annum and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate (as defined) on such day (or, if such day is not a business day, the immediately preceding business day) plus 1.00% per annum, plus (y) the Applicable Rate (as defined), or (ii) Eurodollar borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such interest period plus (y) the Applicable Rate. Determination of the Applicable Rate is based on a pricing grid that is dependent upon our Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined) as of the end of each fiscal quarter for which consolidated financial statements have been most recently delivered. The Credit Facility contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants. The Credit Facility also contains customary negative covenants, subject to negotiated exceptions, including but not limited to: (i) liens, (ii) investments, (iii) indebtedness, (iv) significant corporate changes, including mergers and acquisitions, (v) dispositions, (vi) restricted payments, including stockholder dividends, and (vii) certain other restrictive agreements. The Credit Facility also contains certain financial covenants and customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate), such as payment defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency, the occurrence of a defined change in control and the failure to observe the negative covenants and other covenants related to the operation of our business. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be required to enter into amendments to the Credit Facility in connection with any further syndication of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility provides for, among other things: (i) no scheduled payments of principal until maturity; (ii) a maximum Secured Leverage Ratio of 3.75x trailing twelve months ("TTM") Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted EBITDA") and a Maximum Total Leverage Ratio of 4.50x TTM Adjusted EBITDA, each with no step downs; and (iii) a Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 3.25x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. As of January 31, 2022, our Secured Leverage Ratio was 1.95x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the maximum allowable Secured Leverage Ratio of 3.75x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. Our Interest Expense Coverage Ratio as of January 31, 2022 was 11.91x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 3.25x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. The obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries (the "Guarantors"). As collateral security under the Credit Facility and the guarantees thereof, we and the Guarantors have granted to the administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a lien on, and first priority security interest in, substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Credit Facility, which has been documented and filed with the SEC. Convertible Preferred Stock On October 18, 2021, we entered into a Subscription Agreement (the Subscription Agreement) with certain affiliates and related funds of White Hat Capital Partners LP and Magnetar Capital LLC (collectively, the Investors), relating to the issuance and sale of up to 125,000 shares of a new series of the Company's Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.10 per share (the "Convertible Preferred Stock"), for an aggregate purchase price of up to $125.0 million, or $1,000 per share. On October 19, 2021 (the Initial Closing Date), pursuant to the terms of the Subscription Agreement, the Investors purchased an aggregate of 100,000 shares of Convertible Preferred Stock (the Initial Issuance) for an aggregate purchase price of $100.0 million. The Investors have a one-time option exercisable at any time on or prior to March 31, 2023 to purchase additional shares of Convertible Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $25.0 million. This purchase option is commonly referred to as a Green Shoe and together with the Initial Issuance, is collectively referred to as the Issuance. The initial conversion price for the shares issued in the Initial Issuance is $24.50, subject to an increase in the conversion price to $26.00 upon the achievement of $76.0 million of Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Subscription Agreement) for our fiscal 2022 year, and the initial conversion price for the Green Shoe is $32.00. 61 . Index The Convertible Preferred Stock ranks senior to the shares of our common stock, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. The Convertible Preferred Stock initially had a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share with each share entitled to a cumulative dividend (the Dividend) at the rate of 6.5% per annum, compounding quarterly, paid-in-kind or paid in cash, at our election. For any quarter in which we elect not to pay the Dividend in cash with respect to a share of Convertible Preferred Stock, such Dividend becomes part of the liquidation preference of such share. In addition, no dividend or other distribution on our common stock in excess of $0.10 per share per quarter will be declared or paid on the common stock unless, at the time of such declaration and payment, an equivalent dividend or distribution is declared and paid on the Convertible Preferred Stock (the Participating Dividend), provided that in the case of any such dividend in the form of cash, in lieu of a cash payment, such Participating Dividend will become part of the liquidation preference of the shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock. Such Participating Dividend results in the Convertible Preferred Stock meeting the definition of a "participating security" for purposes of our earnings per share calculations. The Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible into shares of common stock at the option of the holders thereof at or following the earlier to occur of (a) the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2022, but no later than October 19, 2022 and (b) immediately prior to (and conditioned upon) the consummation of a Change of Control. At any time after October 19, 2024, we have the right to mandate the conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock, subject to certain restrictions, based on the price of the common stock in the preceding thirty trading days. Holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to vote with the holders of the common stock on an as-converted basis, as well as are entitled to a separate class vote with respect to, among other things, amendments to our organizational documents that have an adverse effect on the Convertible Preferred Stock, authorizations or issuances of securities of the Company, the payment of dividends other than dividends on common stock in the ordinary course consistent with past practice on a quarterly basis in an amount not to exceed our current dividend rate of $0.10 per share per quarter, related party transactions, repurchases or redemptions of securities of the Company (other than the repurchase of up to $25.0 million of shares of common stock), dispositions of businesses or assets, the incurrence of indebtedness and certain amendments or extensions of our existing Credit Facility. Holders have the right to require the Company to repurchase such holder's Convertible Preferred Stock on a date occurring either (a) on or after October 19, 2026 (the Optional Repurchase Trigger Date) at a price equal to the liquidation preference or (b) in connection with a conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock, pursuant to which the number of shares of common stock issuable upon such conversion would exceed 19.99% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock as of October 18, 2021 (such excess shares, "Excess Conversion Shares"), at any time after the date that is 91 days after the maturity date of the Company's existing Credit Facility, at a price per share equal to the number of Excess Conversion Shares multiplied by the Last Reported Sales Price (as defined) of common stock on the applicable conversion date. In addition, each holder will have the right to cause the Company to repurchase its shares of Convertible Preferred Stock in connection with a Change of Control, at a price equal to the liquidation preference. Commitments In the normal course of business, other than as discussed below, we routinely enter into binding and non-binding purchase obligations primarily covering anticipated purchases of inventory and equipment. We do not expect that these commitments, as of January 31, 2022, will materially adversely affect our liquidity. At January 31, 2022, cash payments due under long-term obligations (including estimated interest expense on our Credit Facility), excluding purchase orders that we entered into in our normal course of business, are as follows: Obligations Due by Fiscal Years or Maturity Date (in thousands) Total Remainder of 2022 2023 and 2024 2025 and 2026 After 2026 Credit Facility - principal payments $ 114,500 114,500 Credit Facility - interest payments 5,177 1,500 3,677 Operating and finance lease obligations 69,307 5,990 18,950 15,127 29,240 Contractual cash obligations $ 188,984 7,490 137,127 15,127 29,240 62 . Index As discussed in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (2) - Acquisitions - UHP Networks Inc .," we completed our acquisition of UHP on March 2, 2021. Pursuant to the stock purchase agreement, during fiscal 2021, the initial up-front payment of approximately $24.0 million was paid mostly in shares of our common stock, with a nominal amount paid in cash. In August 2021, approximately $4.0 million of the $5.0 million hold back amount previously placed into escrow at closing was paid to the seller in shares of our common stock, as the conditions pursuant to the stock purchase agreement were met. The stock purchase agreement also provides for a contingent earn-out payment of up to $9.0 million, also payable at our option in cash and or shares of our common stock, if specified sales milestones are reached during a defined period ending September 30, 2022. As discussed further in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (10) - Credit Facility ," our Credit Facility provides a senior secured loan facility of up to $550.0 million consisting of: (i) a revolving loan facility ("Revolving Loan Facility") with a borrowing limit of $300.0 million; (ii) an accordion feature allowing us to make a request to borrow up to an additional $250.0 million subject to satisfaction of specified conditions including approval by our lenders; (iii) a $35.0 million letter of credit sublimit; and (iv) a swingline loan credit sublimit of $25.0 million. The Credit Facility matures on October 31, 2023 (the "Revolving Maturity Date"). In addition, if we issue new unsecured debt in excess of $5.0 million with a maturity date that is less than 91 days from October 31, 2023, the Revolving Maturity Date would automatically accelerate so that it would be 91 days earlier than the maturity date of the new unsecured debt. At January 31, 2022, we have approximately $1.0 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts. Such amounts are not included in the above table. As discussed in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (17) - Convertible Preferred Stock ," the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock have the option to redeem such shares for cash commencing in October 2026. As the Convertible Preferred Stock are not mandatorily redeemable for cash, the redemption value of such shares are not presented in the table above. As discussed further in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (18) - Stockholders Equity ," on March 10, 2022, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on May 20, 2022 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 20, 2022. Future common stock dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility, as well as Board approval and certain voting rights of holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. In the ordinary course of business, we include indemnification provisions in certain of our customer contracts. Pursuant to these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify, hold harmless and reimburse the indemnified party for certain losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, including but not limited to losses related to third-party intellectual property claims. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these agreements due to a history of nominal claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As discussed further in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (19) - Legal Proceedings and Other Matters ," we are subject to a number of indemnification demands and we are incurring ongoing legal expenses in connection with these matters. Our insurance policies may not cover the cost of defending indemnification claims or providing indemnification. As a result, pending or future claims asserted against us by a party that we may agree or have agreed to indemnify could result in legal costs and damages that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We have an employment agreement and change of control agreement with Mr. Porcelain, our President and CEO and member of our Board of Directors. We have also entered into change of control agreements with certain of our executive officers and certain key employees. All of these agreements may require payments by us, in certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in control of our Company or a termination of the employee. Our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 31, 2022 includes total liabilities of $9.5 million for uncertain tax positions, including interest, any or all of which may result in a cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of any potential cash settlement with the taxing authorities. 63 . Index RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS We are required to prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") which is the source for all authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which is commonly referred to as "GAAP." The FASB ASC is subject to updates by the FASB, which are known as Accounting Standards Updates ("ASUs"). As further discussed in " Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (3) - Adoption of Accounting Standards and Updates " during the six months ended January 31, 2022, we adopted: FASB ASU No. 2019-12, which simplifies various aspects related to accounting for income taxes. ASU 2019-12 removes certain exceptions to the general principles in Topic 740 and also clarifies and amends existing guidance to improve consistent application. Our adoption of this ASU on August 1, 2021 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2020-01, which clarifies the interactions between Topics 321, 323 and 815. This ASU clarifies that an entity should consider observable transactions that require it to either apply or discontinue the equity method of accounting for the purposes of applying the measurement alternative in accordance with Topic 321 immediately before applying or upon discontinuing the equity method. In addition, the amendments clarify the accounting for certain forward contracts and purchased options accounted for under Topic 815. Our adoption of this ASU on August 1, 2021 did not impact our condensed consolidated financial statements or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2020-06, which simplifies the accounting for convertible instruments by removing certain separation models (including the cash conversion model and the beneficial conversion feature model) for convertible instruments. As a result, for convertible instruments with conversion features that are not required to be accounted for as derivatives under Topic 815 or that do not result in substantial premiums accounted for as paid-in capital, the embedded conversion features are no longer separated from the host contract. Consequently, a convertible debt instrument will be accounted for as a single liability measured at its amortized cost, and convertible preferred stock will be accounted for as a single equity instrument measured at its historical cost as long as no other features require bifurcation and recognition as derivatives. On August 1, 2021, we early adopted this ASU. Our early adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements or disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2021-08, which requires that an acquirer recognize, and measure contract assets and contract liabilities acquired in a business combination in accordance with Topic 606, as if it had originated the contracts. Prior to this ASU, an acquirer generally recognized contract assets and contract liabilities assumed that arose from contracts with customers at fair value on the acquisition date. On August 1, 2021, we early adopted this ASU. Our early adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements or disclosures.