ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of Business We are a leading provider of satellite and space communications technologies, terrestrial and wireless network solutions, Next Generation 911 ("NG-911") and emergency services and cloud native capabilities. This includes the critical communications infrastructure that people, businesses, and governments rely on when durable, trusted connectivity is required, no matter where they are on land, at sea, or in the air and no matter what the circumstances from armed conflict to a natural disaster. Our solutions are designed to fulfill our customers needs for secure wireless communications in the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial. Over the long-term, we anticipate future growth in our end markets due to a trend of increasing demand for global voice, video and data usage in recent years, in addition to the growth of emergency communication networks and related applications. We provide our solutions to both commercial and governmental customers. We manage our business through two reportable operating segments: Satellite and Space Communications - is organized into four technology areas: satellite modem and amplifier technologies, troposcatter technologies, cybersecurity training (formerly, known as government services) and space components. This segment offers customers: satellite ground infrastructure technologies, services and system integration that facilitate the transmission of voice, video and data over GEO, MEO and LEO satellite constellations, including traveling wave tube power amplifiers, satellite modems, VSAT platforms and frequency converters; over-the-horizon microwave solutions that can transmit digitized voice, video, and data over distances up to 200 miles using the troposphere and diffraction; advanced cybersecurity training in support of U.S. government and certain commercial and university customers; and procurement and supply chain management of high reliability Electrical, Electronic and Electromechanical ("EEE") parts for satellite, launch vehicle and manned space applications. Allerium (formerly, Terrestrial and Wireless Networks) - is organized into three service areas: next generation 911 and call delivery, call handling solutions, and trusted location and messaging solutions. This segment offers customers: SMS text to 911 services; next generation 911 solutions, providing emergency call routing, location validation, policy-based routing rules, logging and security functionality; Emergency Services IP Network transport infrastructure for emergency services communications and support of next generation 911 services; call handling applications for PSAPs; wireless emergency alerts solutions for network operators; and software and equipment for location-based and text messaging services for various applications, including for public safety, commercial and government services. Our Quarterly Financial Information Quarterly and period-to-period sales and operating results may be significantly affected by, among other things, short-term or long-term contracts with our customers, allowances for bad debt, impairments of long-lived assets (including goodwill) and changes in the estimated fair value of derivative instruments and warrants. In addition, our gross profit is affected by a variety of factors, including, among other things, the mix of products, systems and services sold, production efficiencies, provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, estimates of warranty expense, price competition and general economic conditions. Our gross profit may also be affected by the impact of any cumulative adjustments to contracts that are accounted for over time. Our contracts with the U.S. government (or prime contractors to the U.S. government) can be terminated for convenience at any time and orders are subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our customers. Some of these contracts are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts and, as such, the U.S. government is not obligated to purchase any equipment or services under these contracts. We have, in the past, experienced and we continue to expect significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period due to these factors. As such, comparisons between periods and our current results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Please see the "Transformation Plan" section discussed above, as well as disclosures in Item 1A Risk Factors under Part I of this Form 10-K for more information about risks pertaining to our business and those factors that can influence our future results. 59 Critical Accounting Policies We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each. Revenue Recognition. In accordance with FASB ASC 606 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606"), we record revenue in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for goods or services promised to customers. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (1)(d) - Revenue Recognition included in Part II -