Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide. Our solutions fulfill our customers needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical scenarios where performance is crucial. As more fully described throughout this Form 10-K, fiscal 2017 turned out to be a successful year for Comtech. We have largely completed the integration of our February 23, 2016 acquisition of TeleCommunication Systems, Inc. ("TCS"), the largest acquisition in our history. The TCS acquisition was transformative for our business and a significant step in our strategy of entering complementary markets and expanding our domestic and international commercial offerings. Our fiscal 2017 results include a full twelve months of TCS operations and we reported consolidated net sales of $550.4 million, consolidated net income of $15.8 million and Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure) of $70.7 million. For a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of Fiscal 2017 and 2016 - Adjusted EBITDA. We generated significant cash flows from operations and significantly reduced our long-term indebtedness. We enter fiscal 2018 with a solid backlog and a pipeline of opportunities that give us reason to be excited about our future prospects. Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018 is discussed further in " Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Outlook for Fiscal 2018. " Our Internet website is www.comtechtel.com and we make available on our website: our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including annual reports, quarterly reports, current reports and any amendments to those filings. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained therein into this Form 10-K. We also use our website to disseminate other material information to our investors (on the Home Page and in the "Investor Relations" section). Among other things, we post on our website our press releases and information about our public conference calls (including the scheduled dates, times and the methods by which investors and others can listen to those calls), and we make available for replay webcasts of those calls and other presentations. We also use social media channels to communicate with customers and the public about our Company, our products, services and other issues, and we use social media and the Internet to communicate with investors, including information about our stockholder meetings. Information and updates about our Annual Meetings will continue to be posted on our website at www.comtechtel.com in the "Investor Relations" section. 1 Any materials filed with the SEC may be read and copied by the public at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are incorporated in the state of Delaware and were founded in 1967. Corporate Strategies We intend to manage our business with the following principal corporate strategies: Seek leadership positions in markets where we can provide differentiated products and technology solutions; Identify and participate in emerging technologies that enhance or expand our product portfolio; Maximize responsiveness to our customers, including offering more integrated systems and solutions; Expand and further penetrate our diversified and balanced customer base; and Pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies. Competitive Strengths The successful execution of our principal corporate strategies is based on our competitive strengths, including the following: (1) We Have Significant Exposure to Large, Growing End Markets We believe Comtech is well positioned to capitalize on some of the most significant emerging technology trends occurring worldwide and that customers around the world will increasingly turn to us to fulfill their needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical scenarios where performance is crucial. These important emerging technology trends include growth in global wireless penetration and mobile data consumption, proliferation of mobile applications requiring trusted location data, the need for public safety agencies to seamlessly connect individuals with first responders, widespread deployment of in-flight connectivity solutions by airlines worldwide, and the rapidly expanding breadth of High Definition ("HD") and 4K broadcasting content. (2) We Believe We Are a Market Leader in the End-Markets That We Serve Commercial Solutions Segment Communication Technologies - We believe we are the leading provider of Single Carrier per Channel ("SCPC") satellite earth station modems. Many of our key satellite earth station products incorporate Turbo Product Code ("TPC") forward error correction technology and our licensed DoubleTalk Carrier-in-Carrier bandwidth compression technology which enables our customers to optimize their satellite networks by either reducing their satellite transponder lease costs or increasing data throughput. We believe we are a leader in the traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA") market and we differentiate our product offerings by our ability to develop the most efficient size, weight and power profile. Our TWTA products are vital to satellite communication applications such as traditional broadcast, direct-to-home ("DTH") broadcast and satellite newsgathering. We provide solid-state amplifiers that are also used to amplify signals carrying voice, video or data for air-to-satellite-to-ground communications. For example, our amplifiers, when incorporated into an aircraft satellite communication system, can provide passengers with email, Internet access and video conferencing. Certain of our high-powered amplifiers are AS-900 (an airborne quality standard ) certified. We believe we are a leader in providing amplifiers for the growing in-flight connectivity market. 2 Safety and Security Technologies - We believe that we are a leader in public safety communication technologies used for delivery of 911 calls. We believe we have significant market share in the routing of U.S. wireless 911 calls, Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") 911 calls and Text to 911 deployments. We believe we are one of two companies fulfilling the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") requirements for Enhanced 911 ("E911") call-routing to public safety answering points ("PSAPs") for wireless and VoIP network operators. E911 refers to 911 calls for both wireline and wireless telephones that are enhanced to provide location information of the caller. We are focusing our marketing and research and development efforts to meet system standards for next generation 911 ("NG911"), which refers to an Internet Protocol ("IP") based system that allows digital information (e.g., voice, photos, videos, text messages) to flow seamlessly from the public, through the 911 network, and on to emergency responders. Enterprise Technologies - Our Short-Messaging Service ("SMS") Center software has been used by wireless carrier subscribers to send and receive text or data messages to and from wireless devices for almost two decades. We provide ongoing operational support for our installed base of systems, including administration of system components, system optimization and configuration management. Our systems include our Location Trust Score technology, a unique process we developed to reliably identify a mobile location by generating a "Location Trust Score." Additionally, we offer Location Studio TM , a complete end-to-end location-based services platform for mobile carriers, application developers and enterprises. The platform consists of multiple modular technology suites that provide a rich set of functionalities, including indoor and outdoor positioning, geolocation, mapping, search, routing, navigation, real-time message updates, and analytics . This platform includes Look4 TM geo-services which enable customers to build their own applications powered by our location-based technology and a cloud-based positioning engine. We believe the positioning of Location Studio TM is unique in the industry and is an appealing alternative to free consumer-based mapping services which are subject to change by the supplier and which may not meet an enterprises privacy and security requirements. Government Solutions Segment Command and Control Technologies - We are a key supplier to the U.S. Army for mission critical command and control technology solutions and field support services. We are a prime contractor under several indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) defense contract vehicles, including the: (i) Armys Global Tactical Advanced Communications Systems ("GTACS") contract, (ii) Defense Information Systems Agencys Custom SATCOM Solutions ("CS2") contract and (iii) Complex Commercial SATCOM Solutions (CS3) contract from the General Services Administration. We also provide the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD") personnel with curriculum development and training services to support cybersecurity workforce development. We currently provide sustainment services to the U.S. Armys AN/TSC-198 family of communication systems that are commonly referred to as SNAP (Secret Internet Protocol Router (SIPR) and Non-secure Internet Protocol Router (NIPR) Access Point) Very Small Aperture Terminals (VSATs). Additionally, we have provided and expect to continue to provide Blue Force Tracking-1 sustainment services to the U.S. Army well into the future. Troposcatter Technologies - We have designed, manufactured and sold over-the-horizon microwave products and systems for approximately forty years and believe we are the leading supplier in this specialized product market. We believe we offer the only available adaptive troposcatter modem operating at 50 Mbps. Our Modular Tactical Transmission System ("MTTS") systems provide a high capacity, beyond-line-of-sight modular communications system designed for easy and rapid deployment. Our MTTS systems also offer seamless compatibility and interoperability with legacy-fielded troposcatter systems currently used by the U.S. military, including all versions of the AN/TRC-170. RF Power & Switching Technologies - We are one of the largest independent suppliers of broadband, high-power, high-performance RF microwave amplifiers, which reproduce signals with high power and are extremely complex and critical to the performance of the systems into which they are incorporated. Many of these amplifiers are produced in-house by large companies; however, our expertise has created a cost-effective and technologically superior alternative to in-house sourcing. Some of the companies who have outsourced amplifier production to us include Rockwell Collins, Inc., Thales Group, European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company ("EADS"), Telephonics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, BAE Systems PLC and Raytheon Company. Our amplifiers are also used in oncology treatment systems that allow physicians to give cancer patients higher doses of radiation that are more closely focused on cancerous tissue, thereby minimizing damage to healthy tissue. (3) We Believe We Provide Industry Leading Innovation, Capabilities and Solutions We have established a leading position of technology innovation in our fields through internal and customer-funded research and development activities, which have yielded significant advances. Examples of our industry-leading innovation include: 3 Our HEIGHTS Networking Platform - In fiscal 2017, we announced the general availability of our Heights TM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS"), a potentially revolutionary technology designed to deliver the highest Internet Protocol bits per Hertz in its class, as well as robust reliability. HEIGHTS is an advanced networking platform that combines our most efficient waveforms, compression engines and the ability to provide dynamic bandwidth and power management to meet the demands of customers operating on traditional fixed satellite service systems ("FSS") while providing advantages for customers who plan to transition to high throughput satellite ("HTS") systems in the future. Our HEIGHTS networking platform, a successor to our advanced VSAT series of products, is ideally suited for cellular backhaul, universal service obligation networks and other applications that require high performance in a hub-spoke environment. Our New Line of SLM-5650B Satellite Modems - During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, the U.S. Space and Naval Warfare System Command, in support of the Program Executive Office for Command, Control, Communications, Computer and Intelligence, publicly announced its intention to sole-source a five year, IDIQ contract to procure our SLM-5650B satellite modems and upgrade kits. There are over eight-hundred older generation modems currently utilized by multiple Navy programs and our new modems and related upgrade kits will meet critical Navy requirements. We believe no other competitor responded to the Navys Request for Proposal (RFP) and that we are the only company in the world that is able to meet the Navys requirements. Our Gallium Nitride Based Amplifiers - These amplifiers, which incorporate Gallium Nitride ("GaN") technololgy, offer an efficient size, weight and power profile affording customers more power with higher efficiency. With continued technology evolution in the GaN semiconductor marketplace, we have successfully developed solid-state products with our GaN semiconductor partners that are achieving power levels of traditional tube amplifier products. We believe this will create opportunities to replace difficult to utilize amplifiers which use antiquated technology and are more expensive to operate. In the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we introduced a new series of high-power GaN SSPAs which we believe are more compact and significantly more efficient than other SSPAs on the market, making them ideal for transportable and mobile applications where power draw matters. These new SSPAs include: our new XTLIN-200K SSPA which covers 13.75 to 14.5 GHz Ku-band with a minimum of 200W of linear power; our new XTLIN-100K SSPA which also covers 13.75 to 14.5 GHz Ku-band but with a minimum of 100W of linear power and which allows easy conversion from X-band to Ku-band; and our new XTLIN-200X SSPA which can be used for tactical X-band and which offers a minimum of 200W of linear power. We believe these new product introductions will meet the needs of our customers for many years ahead. Our New Trusted Technology Location Solutions - In order to determine a cellular phone users location, many companies utilize technology that combines wireless network-derived location data with data from the phones on-board global positioning system receiver. In April 2016, we were issued a U.S. patent for our Location Trust Score technology. This patent grants us important intellectual property protection and licensing opportunities for a unique process that identifies the reliability of a stated mobile location by generating a "Location Trust Score." We believe this technology is a major breakthrough in providing secure, accurate and reliable information and a powerful tool for identifying fraud, preventing "false positive" denials of service, and confirming location compliance for regulated industries. (4) We Have a Diverse Global Customer Base We have established longstanding relationships with hundreds of customers worldwide. Our customers include leading system and network suppliers in the global satellite, defense, broadcast and aerospace industries, as well as the U.S. federal government, U.S. state and local governments, and foreign governments. Our satellite earth station products and our high-power amplifiers are used by hundreds of international customers including mobile cellular network providers and governments around the world. We also have ongoing relationships with the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, U.S. Army and other government agencies. Our global commercial and government customers are increasingly seeking integrated solutions to meet their operational needs. We believe that our customers recognize our ability to develop improved technologies and to meet stringent program requirements. We have long standing relationships with U.S.-based telecommunications companies, including Verizon Wireless and AT&T, through various divisions, directly and through channels. We believe the TCS acquisition has further strengthened our relationship with the U.S. government, given its prime position on key contracts. Prior to the acquisition, Comtech and TCS had worked together for a number of years to offer the U.S. military a troposcatter system in a transportable flyaway configuration (known as the AN/TCS-198(V3) or SNAP-3T) which is capable of providing seamless compatibility and interoperability with legacy-fielded over-the-horizon microwave systems. Over time, we hope to utilize these prime contracts to facilitate procurement by the U.S. government for our satellite earth station and over-the-horizon microwave equipment and systems, given the ever increasing amount of Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (also known as "C4ISR") information that is being generated. 4 Our Two Business Segments We manage our business through two reportable operating segments: Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions. Our corporate senior management team supports the business segments by, among other things, actively seeking to exploit potential synergies that exist between the segments, including in areas such as manufacturing, technology, sales, marketing and customer support. In fiscal 2017 , our Commercial Solutions segment contributed 60.1% of our consolidated net sales and our Government Solutions segment contributed 39.9% of our consolidated net sales. Additional financial information about our business segments, including net sales, operating income, Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure), total assets, and our operations outside the United States, is provided in " Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (13) Segment Information " included in " Part II -