Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide. Our solutions fulfill our customers needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical scenarios where performance is crucial. As more fully described throughout this Form 10-K, fiscal 2018 was a successful year for Comtech. It was the third consecutive year of net sales and second consecutive year of Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure) growth and we achieved consolidated net sales of $570.6 million , consolidated net income of $29.8 million and Adjusted EBITDA of $78.4 million . We generated significant cash flows from operations and significantly reduced our total indebtedness. Entering fiscal 2019 with a record high backlog and strong business momentum in each of our two operating segments, we are confident that fiscal 2019 will be another successful year. Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 is discussed further in Part II - " Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 . " For a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA, see Part II - " Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of Fiscal 2018 and 2017 - Adjusted EBITDA." Our Internet website is www.comtechtel.com and we make available on our website: our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including annual reports, quarterly reports, current reports and any amendments to those filings. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained therein into this Form 10-K. We also use our website to disseminate other material information to our investors (on the Home Page and in the "Investor Relations" section). Among other things, we post on our website our press releases and information about our public conference calls (including the scheduled dates, times and the methods by which investors and others can listen to those calls), and we make available for replay webcasts of those calls and other presentations. We also use social media channels to communicate with customers and the public about our Company, our products, services and other issues, and we use social media and the Internet to communicate with investors, including information about our stockholder meetings. Information and updates about our Annual Meetings will continue to be posted on our website at www.comtechtel.com in the "Investor Relations" section. Any materials filed with the SEC may be read and copied by the public at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are incorporated in the state of Delaware and were founded in 1967. 1 Corporate Strategies We intend to manage our business with the following principal corporate strategies: Seek leadership positions in markets where we can provide differentiated products and technology solutions; Identify and participate in emerging technologies that enhance or expand our product portfolio; Maximize responsiveness to our customers, including offering more integrated systems and solutions; Expand and further penetrate our diversified and balanced customer base; and Pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies. Competitive Strengths The successful execution of our principal corporate strategies is based on our competitive strengths, including the following: (1) We Have Significant Exposure to Large, Growing End Markets We believe Comtech is well positioned to capitalize on some of the most significant emerging technology trends occurring worldwide and that customers around the world will increasingly turn to us to fulfill their needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical scenarios where performance is crucial. These important emerging technology trends include growth in global wireless penetration and mobile data consumption, proliferation of mobile applications requiring trusted location data, the need for public safety agencies to seamlessly connect individuals with first responders, widespread deployment of in-flight connectivity solutions by airlines worldwide, and the rapidly expanding breadth of High Definition ("HD") and 4K broadcasting content, all of which we believe will result in an increase in global voice, video and data usage that will, in turn, result in increased demand for the secure wireless and satellite communication solutions that we provide. (2) We Believe We Are a Market Leader in the End-Markets That We Serve Commercial Solutions Segment Communication Technologies - We believe we are the leading provider of Single Channel per Carrier ("SCPC") satellite earth station modems. Many of our key satellite earth station products incorporate Turbo Product Code ("TPC") forward error correction technology and our licensed DoubleTalk Carrier-in-Carrier bandwidth compression technology which enables our customers to optimize their satellite networks by either reducing their satellite transponder lease costs or increasing data throughput. We believe we are a leader in the traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA") market and we differentiate our product offerings by our ability to develop the most efficient size, weight and power profile. Our TWTA products are vital to satellite communication applications such as traditional broadcast, direct-to-home ("DTH") broadcast and satellite newsgathering. We provide solid-state amplifiers that are also used to amplify signals carrying voice, video or data for air-to-satellite-to-ground communications. For example, our amplifiers, when incorporated into an aircraft satellite communication system, can provide passengers with email, Internet access and video conferencing. Certain of our high-powered amplifiers are AS-900 (an airborne quality standard) certified. We believe we are a leader in providing amplifiers for the growing in-flight connectivity market. Safety and Security Technologies - We believe that we are a leader in public safety communication technologies used for delivery of 911 calls. We believe we have significant market share in the routing of U.S. wireless 911 calls, Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") 911 calls and Text to 911 deployments. We believe we are one of two companies fulfilling the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") requirements for Enhanced 911 ("E911") call-routing to public safety answering points ("PSAPs") for wireless and VoIP network operators. E911 refers to 911 calls for both wireline and wireless telephones that are enhanced to provide location information of the caller. We are focusing our marketing and research and development efforts to meet system standards for next generation 911 ("NG911"), which refers to an Internet Protocol ("IP") based system that allows digital information (e.g., voice, photos, videos, text messages) to flow seamlessly from the public, through the 911 network and on to emergency responders. 2 Enterprise Technologies - Our Short-Messaging Service ("SMS") Center software has been used by wireless carrier subscribers to send and receive text or data messages to and from wireless devices for almost two decades. We provide ongoing operational support for our installed base of systems, including administration of system components, system optimization and configuration management. Our systems include our Location Trust Score technology, a unique process we developed to reliably identify a mobile location by generating a "Location Trust Score." Additionally, we offer Location Studio TM , a complete end-to-end location-based services platform for mobile carriers, application developers and enterprises. The platform consists of multiple modular technology suites that provide a rich set of functionalities, including indoor and outdoor positioning, geolocation, mapping, search, routing, navigation, real-time message updates and analytics . This platform includes Look4 TM geo-services which enable customers to build their own applications powered by our location-based technology and a cloud-based positioning engine. We believe the positioning of Location Studio TM is unique in the industry and is an appealing alternative to free consumer-based mapping services which are subject to change by the supplier and which may not meet an enterprises privacy and security requirements. Government Solutions Segment Command and Control Technologies - We are a key supplier to the U.S. Army for mission critical command and control technology solutions and field support services. We are a prime contractor under several indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") defense contract vehicles or task orders, including the: (i) Armys Global Tactical Advanced Communications Systems ("GTACS") contract, (ii) Defense Information Systems Agencys Custom SATCOM Solutions ("CS2") contract and (iii) Complex Commercial SATCOM Solutions ("CS3") contract from the General Services Administration. We also provide the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD") personnel with curriculum development and training services to support cybersecurity workforce development. We currently provide sustainment services to the U.S. Armys AN/TSC-198 family of communication systems that are commonly referred to as "SNAP" (Secret Internet Protocol Router ("SIPR") and Non-secure Internet Protocol Router ("NIPR") Access Point) Very Small Aperture Terminals ("VSATs"). Additionally, we continue to work with the U.S. Army to deploy our next generation MT-2025 mobile satellite transceivers, which are also known as the Blue Force Tracker-2 High Capacity ("BFT-2-HC") satellite transceivers. The MT-2025 transceivers meet BFT-2 protocols, provide best-in-class reliability and are fully backward compatible with the Blue Force Tracking-1 ("BFT-1") system. Comtech previously shipped over 100,000 BFT-1 mobile satellite transceivers and currently provides sustaining support for the older BFT-1 system. Troposcatter Technologies - We have designed, manufactured and sold over-the-horizon microwave products and systems for approximately forty years and believe we are the leading supplier in this specialized product market. We believe we offer the only available adaptive troposcatter modem operating at 50 Mbps. Our Modular Tactical Transmission System ("MTTS") provides a high capacity, beyond-line-of-sight modular communications system designed for easy and rapid deployment. Our MTTS also offers seamless compatibility and interoperability with legacy-fielded troposcatter systems currently used by the U.S. military, including all versions of the AN/TRC-170. RF Power & Switching Technologies - We are one of the largest independent suppliers of broadband, high-power, high-performance RF microwave amplifiers, which reproduce signals with high power and are extremely complex and critical to the performance of the systems into which they are incorporated. Many of these amplifiers are produced in-house by large companies; however, our expertise has created a cost-effective and technologically superior alternative to in-house sourcing. Some of the companies who have outsourced amplifier production to us include Rockwell Collins, Inc., Thales Group, European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company ("EADS"), Telephonics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, BAE Systems PLC and Raytheon Company. Our amplifiers are also used in oncology treatment systems that allow physicians to give cancer patients higher doses of radiation that are more closely focused on cancerous tissue, thereby minimizing damage to healthy tissue. (3) We Believe We Provide Industry Leading Innovation, Capabilities and Solutions We have established a leading position of technology innovation in our fields through internal and customer-funded research and development activities, which have yielded significant advances. Examples of our industry-leading innovation include: Our HEIGHTS TM Networking Platform - Our HEIGHTS TM networking platform ("HEIGHTS") is the cornerstone of our current research and development efforts and is increasingly becoming a focus of satellite earth station equipment sales and marketing efforts. HEIGHTS is an advanced networking platform that combines our most efficient waveforms, compression engines and the ability to provide dynamic bandwidth and power management to meet the demands of customers operating on traditional fixed satellite service systems ("FSS") while providing advantages for customers who plan to transition to high throughput satellite ("HTS") systems in the future. Our HEIGHTS networking platform, a successor to our advanced VSAT series of products, is ideally suited for cellular backhaul, universal service obligation networks and other applications that require high performance in a hub-spoke environment. Our HEIGHTS Dynamic Network Access Technology solutions are designed to deliver the highest Internet Protocol bits per Hertz in its class. 3 Our SLM-5650B Satellite Modems - During fiscal 2018, the U.S. Space and Naval Warfare System Command, in support of the Program Executive Office for Command, Control, Communications, Computer and Intelligence, awarded us a strategically important multi-year $59.0 million contract to procure our SLM-5650B satellite modems, upgrade kits and related services. This IDIQ sole-source contract has five one-year ordering periods. There are over eight-hundred older generation modems currently utilized by multiple Navy programs. We believe that no other competitor responded to the NAVYs initial Request for Proposal ("RFP") and we believe our modems and related upgrade kits will meet critical Navy requirements. Our Gallium Nitride Based Amplifiers - These amplifiers, which incorporate Gallium Nitride ("GaN") technology, offer customers smaller size, more power and higher efficiency. With continued technology evolution in the GaN semiconductor marketplace, we have successfully developed GaN based products with our GaN semiconductor partners that are achieving higher power levels than previously available in solid state amplifiers. We believe this will create opportunities to replace difficult to utilize amplifiers which use antiquated technology and are more expensive to operate. In recent years, we have developed a new series of high-power GaN Solid State Power Amplifiers ("SSPA") which we believe are more compact and significantly more efficient than other SSPAs on the market, making them ideal for transportable and mobile applications where power draw matters. These new SSPAs include: our new XTLIN200K SSPA which covers 13.75 to 14.5 GHz Ku-band with a minimum of 200W of linear power; our new XTLIN-100K SSPA which also covers 13.75 to 14.5 GHz Ku-band but with a minimum of 100W of linear power and which allows easy conversion from X-band to Ku-band; and our new XTLIN-200X SSPA which can be used for tactical X-band and which offers a minimum of 200W of linear power. Our ground-based amplifiers are built with modular components for rapid deployment and easy scaling up in power. Products at different frequency bands share common physical designs, which saves manufacturing cost and allows easy conversion for tactical military customers to transmit up to 200W of linear power in either X-band or Ku-band depending on regional satellite availability. GaN technology is also incorporated into our airborne products and we have introduced products in both Ku-band and Ka-band to address the growing demand for satellite-based inflight connectivity on commercial aircrafts. We believe these products will meet the needs of our customers for many years ahead. Our Trusted Location Technology Solutions - In order to determine a cellular phone users location, many companies utilize technology that combines wireless network-derived location data with data from the phones on-board global positioning system receiver. In 2016, we were issued a U.S. patent for our Location Trust Score technology. This patent grants us important intellectual property protection and licensing opportunities for a unique process that identifies the reliability of a stated mobile location by generating a "Location Trust Score." We believe this technology is a major breakthrough in providing secure, accurate and reliable information and a powerful tool for identifying fraud, preventing "false positive" denials of service and confirming location compliance for regulated industries. (4) We Have a Diverse Global Customer Base We have established long-standing relationships with hundreds of customers worldwide. Our customers include leading system and network suppliers in the global satellite, defense, broadcast and aerospace industries, as well as the U.S. federal government, U.S. state and local governments, and foreign governments. Our satellite earth station products and our high-power amplifiers are used by hundreds of international customers including mobile cellular network providers and governments around the world. We also have ongoing relationships with the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, U.S. Army and other government agencies. Our global commercial and government customers are increasingly seeking integrated solutions to meet their operational needs. We believe that our customers recognize our ability to develop improved technologies and to meet stringent program requirements. We have long-standing relationships with U.S.-based telecommunications companies, including Verizon Wireless and AT&T, through various divisions, directly and through channels. We believe the TCS acquisition has further strengthened our relationship with the U.S. government given its prime position on key contracts. Prior to the acquisition, Comtech and TCS had worked together for a number of years to offer the U.S. military a troposcatter system in a transportable flyaway configuration (known as the AN/TCS-198(V3) or SNAP-3T) which is capable of providing seamless compatibility and interoperability with legacy-fielded over-the-horizon microwave systems. Over time, we hope to utilize these prime contracts to facilitate procurement by the U.S. government for our satellite earth station and over-the-horizon microwave equipment and systems, given the ever-increasing amount of Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (also known as "C4ISR") information that is being generated. 4 Our Two Business Segments We manage our business through two reportable operating segments: Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions. Our corporate senior management team supports the business segments by, among other things, actively seeking to exploit potential synergies that exist between the segments, including in areas such as manufacturing, technology, sales, marketing and customer support. In fiscal 2018 , our Commercial Solutions segment contributed 60.5% of our consolidated net sales and our Government Solutions segment contributed 39.5% of our consolidated net sales. Additional financial information about our business segments, including net sales, operating income, Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure), total assets, and our operations outside the United States, is provided in " Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (13) Segment Information " included in " Part II -