ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, information relating to our future performance and financial condition, plans and objectives of our management and our assumptions regarding such future performance, financial condition, and plans and objectives that involve certain significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors not under our control which may cause our actual results, future performance and financial condition, and achievement of our plans and objectives to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include the nature and timing of receipt of, and our performance on, new or existing orders that can cause significant fluctuations in net sales and operating results, the timing and funding of government contracts, adjustments to gross profits on long-term contracts, risks associated with international sales, rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, new product announcements and enhancements, changing customer demands, changes in prevailing economic and political conditions, changes in the price of oil in global markets, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, risks associated with our legal proceedings and other matters, risks associated with U.S. government investigations, risks associated with our large contracts, and other factors described in this and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). OVERVIEW We design, develop, produce and market innovative products, systems and services for advanced communications solutions. We believe many of our solutions play a vital role in providing or enhancing communication capabilities when terrestrial communications infrastructure is unavailable, inefficient or too expensive. We conduct our business through three complementary operating segments: telecommunications transmission, RF microwave amplifiers and mobile data communications. We sell our products to a diverse customer base in the global commercial and government communications markets. We believe we are a leader in most of the market segments that we serve. Our telecommunications transmission segment provides sophisticated equipment and systems that are used to enhance satellite transmission efficiency and that enable wireless communications in environments where terrestrial communications are unavailable, inefficient or too expensive. Our telecommunications transmission segment also operates our high-volume technology manufacturing center that can be utilized, in part, by our other two segments and by third-party commercial customers who can outsource a portion of their manufacturing to us. Accordingly, our telecommunications transmission segments operating results are impacted positively or negatively by the level of utilization of our high-volume manufacturing center. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment designs, develops, manufactures and markets traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTAs") and solid-state, high-power amplifiers ("SSPAs"), including high-power, narrow and broadband RF microwave amplifier products. Our mobile data communications segment's products and services substantially relate to our support of the U.S. Army's Blue Force Tracking ("BFT-1") and the U.S. Army's Movement Tracking System ("MTS") programs, which are currently in a sustainment mode. We license certain of our intellectual property to the U.S. Army and provide engineering services and satellite network operations on a cost-plus-fixed-fee basis and program management services on a firm-fixed-price basis. Quarterly and period-to-period sales and operating results may be significantly affected by either short-term or long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, our gross profit is affected by a variety of factors, including the mix of products, systems and services sold, production efficiencies, estimates of warranty expense, price competition and general economic conditions. Our gross profit may also be affected by the impact of any cumulative adjustments to contracts that are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method. Our contracts with the U.S. government can be terminated for convenience by it at any time and orders are subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. Some of these contracts are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts and, as such, the U.S. government is not obligated to purchase any equipment or services under these contracts. We have in the past experienced and we continue to expect significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period. As such, comparisons between periods and our current results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. 26 Index As further discussed below, under Critical Accounting Policies, revenue from the sale of our products is generally recognized when the earnings process is complete, upon shipment or customer acceptance. Revenue from contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyers specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts is generally recognized in accordance with accounting standards that have been codified into Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts (ASC 605-35). Revenue from contracts that contain multiple elements that are not accounted for under FASB ASC 605-35 is generally accounted for in accordance with FASB ASC 605-25, Revenue Recognition - Multiple Element Arrangements, which, among other things, requires revenue associated with multiple element arrangements to be allocated to each element based on the relative selling price method. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each. Revenue Recognition on Long-Term Contracts. Revenues and related costs from long-term contracts relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex electronic equipment to a buyers specification or to provide services relating to the performance of such contracts are recognized in accordance with FASB ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts (ASC 605-35). We primarily apply the percentage-of-completion accounting method and generally recognize revenue based on the relationship of total costs incurred to total projected costs, or, alternatively, based on output measures, such as units delivered or produced. Profits expected to be realized on such contracts are based on total estimated sales for the contract compared to total estimated costs, including warranty costs, at completion of the contract. Direct costs (which include materials, labor and overhead) are charged to work-in-progress (including our contracts-in-progress) inventory or cost of sales. Indirect costs relating to long-term contracts, which include expenses such as general and administrative, are charged to expense as incurred and are not included in our work-in-process (including our contracts-in-progress) inventory or cost of sales. Total estimates are reviewed and revised periodically throughout the lives of the contracts, and adjustments to profits resulting from such revisions are made cumulative to the date of the change. Estimated losses on long-term contracts are recorded in the period in which the losses become evident. Long-term U.S. government cost-reimbursable type contracts are also accounted for under FASB ASC 605-35. We have been engaged in the production and delivery of goods and services on a continual basis under long-term contractual arrangements for many years. Historically, we have demonstrated an ability to accurately estimate total revenues and total expenses relating to our long-term contracts. However, there exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating revenues, expenses and progress toward completion, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. If we do not accurately estimate the total sales, related costs and progress towards completion on such contracts, the estimated gross margins may be significantly impacted or losses may need to be recognized in future periods. Any such resulting changes in margins or contract losses could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, most government contracts have termination for convenience clauses that provide the customer with the right to terminate the contract at any time. Such terminations could impact the assumptions regarding total contract revenues and expenses utilized in recognizing profit under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Changes to these assumptions could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have not experienced material terminations of our long-term contracts. We also address customer acceptance provisions in assessing our ability to perform our contractual obligations under long-term contracts. Our inability to perform on our long-term contracts could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have been able to perform on our long-term contracts. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation . As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (11) Stock-Based Compensation, we issue stock-based awards to certain of our employees and members of our Board of Directors and we recognize related stock-based compensation in our condensed consolidated financial statements. 27 Index We have used and expect to continue to use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to compute the estimated fair value of certain stock-based awards. The Black-Scholes option pricing model includes assumptions regarding dividend yield, expected volatility, expected option term and risk-free interest rates. The expected dividend yield is the expected annual dividend as a percentage of the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. We estimate expected volatility by considering the historical volatility of our stock, the implied volatility of publicly-traded call options on our stock, the implied volatility from call options embedded in our 3.0% convertible senior notes (prior to their settlement in May 2014) and our expectations of volatility for the expected life of stock options. The expected option term is the number of years that we estimate that stock options will be outstanding prior to exercise based upon exercise patterns. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for an instrument which closely approximates the expected option term. The assumptions used in computing the fair value of stock-based awards reflect our best estimates, but involve uncertainties relating to market and other conditions, many of which are outside of our control. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by the recipients of stock-based awards. As a result, if other assumptions or estimates had been used, stock-based compensation expense that was recorded could have been materially different. Furthermore, if different assumptions are used in future periods, stock-based compensation expense could be materially impacted in the future. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . As of April 30, 2015 , goodwill recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $137.4 million (of which $107.8 million relates to our telecommunications transmission segment and $29.6 million relates to our RF microwave amplifiers segment). Our mobile data communications segment has no goodwill recorded. Each of our three operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions in determining their estimated fair values. In accordance with FASB ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods. On August 1, 2014 (the first day of our fiscal 2015 ), we performed a qualitative assessment (commonly referred to as a "Step Zero" test) to determine if it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value. In making this assessment, we evaluated overall business and macroeconomic conditions since the date of our last quantitative assessment, which was on August 1, 2013 . We also considered in our qualitative assessment, among other things, expectations of projected revenues and cash flows, assumptions impacting the weighted average cost of capital, trends in market multiples, changes in our stock price and changes in the carrying values of our reporting units with goodwill. In addition, we also considered that our last quantitative assessment utilized sensitized revenue projections to account for our belief that global business conditions were expected to be volatile over the projected period. Based on this evaluation, we concluded that our goodwill was likely not impaired and we did not perform a quantitative Step One assessment. In the future, we will either perform a qualitative Step Zero assessment or a quantitative Step One assessment. A quantitative Step One assessment involves determining the fair value of each reporting unit using market participant assumptions. If we believe that the carrying value of a reporting unit with goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value, we will perform a quantitative Step Two assessment. Step Two compares the carrying value of the reporting unit to the fair value of all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (including any unrecognized intangibles) as if the reporting unit was acquired in a business combination. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of its goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. For purposes of reviewing impairment and the recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets, each of our three operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors in determining the fair values of the reporting unit. During both our second and third quarters of fiscal 2015, we experienced significant softness in bookings for our satellite earth station products in many geographic regions, in particular Russia and certain Middle Eastern countries. We believe that order flow from our customers in certain oil producing countries has been negatively impacted by volatile business conditions including a decline in oil prices and the strength of the U.S. dollar, the currency in which virtually all of our sales are denominated. Both lower oil prices and a stronger U.S. dollar lower the purchasing power of many of our international customers. Although it is difficult to gauge when our bookings will increase from current levels, we believe that the ongoing softness in bookings we have experienced is short-term. In addition to softness in orders for our satellite earth station products, we have experienced a significant shift of revenues and operating income associated with several large over-the-horizon microwave systems opportunities related to both the U.S. government and new international customers, from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2016. 28 Index If assumed revenue growth is not achieved in future periods, our telecommunications transmission and RF microwave amplifiers reporting units could be at risk of failing Step One of the goodwill impairment test and goodwill and intangibles assigned to the respective reporting units could be impaired. If our estimates or related assumptions change or other events and circumstances change (e.g., a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock (considered on both absolute terms and relative to peers) or if we change our future reporting unit structure)), we may be required to record impairment charges in future periods. We continue to operate in difficult business conditions (both in the U.S. and internationally) and such conditions could deteriorate from the current state and our current or prospective customers could materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we currently anticipate. In addition, a significant decline in defense spending that is greater than we anticipate or a shift in funding priorities may also have a negative effect on future orders, sales, income and cash flows and we might be required to perform a Step One interim goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 . In December 2014, our Board of Directors named a new President and Chief Executive Officer, succeeding our former President and Chief Executive Officer who is currently serving as Executive Chairman of our Board of Directors. The goodwill impairment assessment is based on several factors requiring judgment and is based on how our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Chairman manage the business. In March 2015, our President and Chief Executive Officer initiated an assessment of our operations to determine if changes in our business approach or operations would help us better serve our customers and potentially reduce our annual operating expenses. In connection with this review, we may, in the future, change our management approach which in turn may change the way we define our reporting units, as such term is defined by FASB ASC 350. A change in our management approach may require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment test and ultimately record impairment charges in a future period. In any event, we are required to perform the next annual goodwill impairment analysis on August 1, 2015 (the start of our fiscal 2016 ). Any impairment charges that we may record in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to our impairment analysis of goodwill, we also review net intangibles with finite lives when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. No events were identified during the three and nine months ended April 30, 2015. As such, we believe that the carrying values of our net intangibles were recoverable as of April 30, 2015 . Provision for Warranty Obligations. We provide warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long-term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment. We record a liability for estimated warranty expense based on historical claims, product failure rates and other factors. Costs associated with some of our warranties that are provided under long-term contracts are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs. There exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating warranty expenses, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. As such, if we do not accurately estimate our warranty costs, any changes to our original estimates could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Accounting for Income Taxes. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Our provision for income taxes is based on domestic (including federal and state) and international statutory income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions where we operate, permanent differences between financial reporting and tax reporting and available credits and incentives. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. The U.S. federal government is our most significant income tax jurisdiction. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and tax positions. We may be challenged upon review by the applicable taxing authority and positions taken by us may not be sustained. We recognize all or a portion of the benefit of income tax positions only when we have made a determination that it is more-likely-than-not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, based upon the technical merits of the position and other factors. For tax positions that are determined as more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination, the tax benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The development of reserves for income tax positions requires consideration of timing and judgments about tax issues and potential outcomes, and is a subjective critical estimate. In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 29 Index Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends. Other factors may also influence our provision, including decisions to exit a product line, technological change and new product development. These factors could result in a change in the amount of excess and obsolete inventory on hand. Additionally, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory was overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charge could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We perform credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness, as determined by our review of our customers current credit information. Generally, we will require cash in advance or payment secured by irrevocable letters of credit before an order is accepted from an international customer that we do not do business with regularly. In addition, we seek to obtain credit insurance for certain domestic and international customers. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. Because of our strong cash position and the nominal amount of interest we are earning on our cash and cash equivalents, we have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio and have not had any significant negative customer credit experiences to date. While our credit losses have historically been within our expectations of the allowances established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have in the past, especially in light of the current global economic conditions and much tighter credit environment. Measurement of credit losses requires consideration of historical loss experience, including the need to adjust for current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates and the financial health of specific customers. Changes to the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Business Outlook for Fiscal 2015 Against a backdrop of difficult and volatile market conditions, consolidated bookings during the third quarter of fiscal 2015 were higher than the level we achieved in the second quarter of fiscal 2015. Despite this increase, many of our customers continue to face economic headwinds such as the impact of lower oil prices and the strength of the U.S. dollar, the currency in which virtually all of our sales are denominated. We do not expect conditions to meaningfully improve during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. Based on our year-to-date results and anticipated performance for the remainder of fiscal 2015, we expect consolidated net sales and operating income in fiscal 2015 to be lower than the level we achieved in fiscal 2014. In March 2015, our President and Chief Executive Officer initiated an assessment of our operations to determine if changes in our business approach or operations would help us better serve our customers and potentially reduce our annual operating expenses. To date, this assessment has resulted in a number of cost reduction actions to lower overall spending and certain organizational changes to promote and facilitate collaboration amongst our various operating units to allow us to propose on new opportunities (such as large U.S. government solicitations) with a unified approach. We have also expanded and expect to continue to expand our corporate marketing and business development function to enhance our focus on existing and untapped market opportunities. This assessment of our operations is continuing and future one-time charges may result from this assessment. Excluding any potential one-time charges, we are targeting operating income as a percentage of consolidated net sales, in fiscal 2015, to approximate 11.0%. Based on our fiscal 2015 business outlook, and excluding the impact of any discrete tax items, we expect our fiscal 2015 estimated effective tax rate to approximate 34.75% . During the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , cash flows from operations were positive and as of April 30, 2015, we had $142.0 million of cash and cash equivalents. During the three months ended April 30, 2015, we repurchased approximately $5.0 million of our common stock and as of June 3, 2015 , we are authorized to repurchase an additional $8.7 million of our common stock, pursuant to a $100.0 million stock repurchase program previously approved by our Board of Directors. In connection with our annual target dividend of $1.20 per common share, on June 4, 2015, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.30 per common share, payable on August 18, 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 17, 2015. 30 Index Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2015 continues to depend on orders from our international customers as well as the receipt of significant new orders from the U.S. government (including prime contractors to the U.S. government). Our customers continue to be challenged by global economic and unstable political conditions. Our U.S. government customers continue to have budget pressure issues and it is possible that the U.S. government could reduce or further delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, government programs we participate in. If business conditions deteriorate or our current or prospective customers materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we currently anticipate, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2015 will be adversely affected. Additional information related to our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2015 is included in the below sections entitled Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 and April 30, 2014 and Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Nine Months Ended April 30, 2015 and April 30, 2014 . COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2015 AND APRIL 30, 2014 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $71.6 million and $88.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, representing a decrease of $17.3 million, or 19.5% . As further discussed below, the period-over-period decrease reflects lower net sales in our telecommunications transmission and RF microwave amplifiers segments, partially offset by higher net sales in our mobile data communications segment. Telecommunications Transmission Net sales in our telecommunications transmission segment were $45.6 million and $61.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, a decrease of $15.6 million, or 25.5% . This decrease reflects lower comparative net sales in both our satellite earth station and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines, as further discussed below. Sales of our satellite earth station products were significantly lower during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014. Bookings in our satellite earth station product line during the third quarter of fiscal 2015 were nominally higher than the second quarter of fiscal 2015 but significantly lower than the third quarter of fiscal 2014. As discussed in the section entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2015, many of our customers continue to face economic headwinds such as the impact of lower oil prices and the strength of the U.S. dollar, the currency in which virtually all of our sales are denominated. As such, we do not expect business conditions to meaningfully improve during the fourth quarter. Based on our year-to-date and expected fourth quarter performance, fiscal 2015 net sales for this product line are anticipated to be significantly lower than in fiscal 2014. If we do not receive and ship expected orders, we may not be able to achieve our expected level of net sales. Sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems were significantly lower during the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014. During our most recent quarter, we continued our ongoing performance on our two large multi-year contracts to design and supply over-the-horizon microwave systems and equipment for use in a North African government's communications network. Although both of these contracts are nearing completion, we have multiple large over-the-horizon microwave system project opportunities with both U.S. government and international customers that we expect to receive orders for. The U.S. Army recently completed extensive testing of our transportable troposcatter systems in preparation for initial fielding in support of operations and we believe it will soon place orders for our Modular Tactical Transmission System ("MTTS") for Army-wide fielding. On the international front, we continue to market our over-the-horizon microwave systems to several new potential customers who have expressed strong interest in purchasing our products. The potential awards for these projects are large and the sales cycles are long; however, we believe that some of these potential international customers are nearing the end of their procurement cycles. New orders and related sales for over-the-horizon microwave system contracts are generally difficult to predict. Based on expected performance on contracts that are currently in our backlog and the timing of other contracts that we anticipate receiving, we expect net sales for this product line during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 to be lower than our most recent quarter and expect fiscal 2015 net sales to be lower than the level we achieved in fiscal 2014. Our telecommunications transmission segment represented 63.7% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to 68.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . Bookings, sales and profitability in our telecommunications transmission segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including the book and ship nature of our satellite earth station products, the current volatile and adverse conditions in the global economy, and the timing of, and our related performance on, contracts from the U.S. government (including prime contractors to the U.S. government) and from both existing and new international customers. 31 Index RF Microwave Amplifiers Net sales in our RF microwave amplifiers segment were $19.7 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to $22.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014 , a decrease of $2.8 million, or 12.4% . This decrease reflects lower sales in both our traveling wave tube amplifier and solid-state high-power amplifier product lines. To date, the aforementioned volatile business conditions that have impacted our satellite earth station product line have not significantly impacted our RF microwave amplifiers segment. Although we now expect some previously anticipated orders to be received in fiscal 2016 rather than fiscal 2015, customer reaction to our new Super-Power traveling wave tube amplifiers (which we introduced during the third quarter of fiscal 2015) has been extremely positive. Recently, we announced the receipt of our first order for this product and we expect additional orders during the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2015. Although timing of anticipated orders is always difficult to predict, we are expecting fourth quarter fiscal 2015 net sales for this product line to be higher than our most recent quarter and to be the peak quarter for fiscal 2015. As such, we expect net sales in this segment in fiscal 2015 to be higher than the level we achieved in fiscal 2014. However, if we do not receive expected orders or business conditions deteriorate from current levels, we may not be able to achieve our expected level of sales in this segment in fiscal 2015. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment represented 27.5% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to 25.3% for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . Bookings, sales and profitability in our RF microwave amplifiers segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including challenging and volatile business conditions, U.S. and international military budget constraints, and the timing of, and our related performance on, contracts from the U.S. government (including prime contractors to the U.S. government) and international customers. Mobile Data Communications Net sales in our mobile data communications segment were $6.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to $5.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2014 , an increase of $1.1 million, or 21.2% . During the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014, BFT-1 sustainment sales to the U.S. Army were $6.1 million, or 96.8% , and $4.8 million, or 92.3% , respectively, of our mobile data communications segment's sales. Sales in both comparative periods include $2.5 million of revenue related to our annual $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license fee. We are currently providing BFT-1 sustainment support pursuant to two contracts that have a combined not to exceed value aggregating $68.5 million. Both contracts consist of a base period which began April 1, 2014 and ended March 31, 2015 and two twelve-month option periods. The first contract consists of a three-year BFT-1 sustainment contract which now has a not-to-exceed value of $38.5 million, whereby we are providing engineering services and satellite network operations on a cost-plus-fixed-fee basis and program management services on a firm-fixed-price basis. The second contract is in the form of a BFT-1 intellectual property license agreement that calls for $10.0 million of annual license fees with an aggregate potential value of $30.0 million. During the three months ended April 30, 2015, the U.S. Army exercised its first twelve-month option which has a performance period from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2016. We also received initial funding totaling $19.8 million, including funding of our $10.0 million annual license fee. We expect to receive additional funded orders for the performance period ending March 31, 2016. Total funding received to-date for both contracts approximates $43.4 million. Based on our year-to-date performance and the current level of our backlog, net sales in our mobile data communications segment are expected to be lower in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. Net sales in our mobile data communications segment in fiscal 2014 include revenues related to our SENS technology-based solutions. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we sold certain of our SENS technology and products, including certain intellectual property, to one of our customers for approximately $2.0 million. Our current BFT-1 sustainment and intellectual property license contracts can be terminated for convenience by the U.S. government at any time, are not subject to automatic renewal, and the U.S. Army is not obligated to purchase any additional services, purchase intellectual property, provide incremental funding, or exercise its option to extend these contracts. Both contracts provide for one remaining twelve-month option period exercisable by the U.S. Army. If the U.S. Army exercises Option Year 2 of the intellectual property license agreement and pays the related $10.0 million of intellectual property license fee, which covers the period April 1, 2016 through March 31, 2017, the U.S. Army will receive a limited non-exclusive right to use certain of Comtech's intellectual property after March 31, 2017 for no additional fee. Our mobile data communications segment represented 8.8% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to 5.8% for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . Bookings, sales and profitability in our mobile data communications segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding and deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. 32 Index Geography and Customer Type Sales to U.S. government end customers approximated 37.5% and 27.4% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. International sales (which include sales to U.S. companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) approximated 50.6% and 62.3% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Domestic commercial sales approximated 11.9% and 10.3% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Gross Profit. Gross profit was $32.3 million and $38.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, representing a decrease of $6.0 million. This decrease was driven by lower consolidated net sales offset, in part, by a higher overall gross profit percentage. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was 45.1% as compared to 43.1% for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment sales, is discussed below. Our telecommunications transmission segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , was higher than the percentage achieved for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . This increase was primarily attributable to better than expected performance on our two large over-the-horizon microwave system contracts for our North African country end-customer. Both of these contracts are nearing completion. Our gross profit also benefited from a $0.5 million reduction in warranty obligations due to lower than anticipated warranty claims on a contract whose warranty period expired on April 30, 2015. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was higher than the percentage achieved for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . This increase is primarily the result of changes in overall segment sales mix. Our mobile data communications segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , was lower as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014 . The decrease is primarily the result of changes in overall segment sales mix. Gross profit in both periods includes $2.5 million of profit related to our annual $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license. Included in consolidated cost of sales for both the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $0.7 million . As discussed in our Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory, we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage assumptions. Because our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each individual segment, it is difficult to forecast. Nevertheless, based on our anticipated performance on orders currently in our consolidated backlog and on orders we expect to receive, we anticipate that our consolidated gross profit in fiscal 2015, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, will be slightly higher than the level we achieved in fiscal 2014. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $15.0 million and $17.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, representing a decrease of $2.3 million. Although selling, general and administrative expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2015 include incremental compensation costs associated with the senior leadership changes announced by our Board of Directors in December 2014, selling, general and administrative expenses were lower due to lower cash-based incentive compensation and lower legal costs. In addition, in response to the overall lower level of net sales expected in fiscal 2015, we have implemented a number of cost reduction actions to lower overall spending. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 20.9% and 19.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The increase in percentage is due to lower overall consolidated net sales during the three months ended April 30, 2015 . Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $1.0 million in the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to $0.9 million in the three months ended April 30, 2014 . This increase is primarily related to changes in the timing of grants for certain stock-based awards. 33 Index As discussed in the section entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2015, our President and Chief Executive Officer has initiated an assessment of our operations which may result in future one-time charges. Excluding any potential one-time charges resulting from this assessment, selling, general and administrative expenses, in dollars, in fiscal 2015 are expected to be lower than in fiscal 2014 and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, are expected to be slightly higher. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $8.6 million and $8.9 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, representing a decrease of $0.3 million, or 3.4% . As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 12.0% and 10.0% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Although net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2015 were lower as compared to the three months ended April 30, 2014 , we continue to invest in research and development projects that we believe will provide future growth. For the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , research and development expenses of $6.1 million and $6.6 million, respectively, related to our telecommunications transmission segment, and $2.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively, related to our RF microwave amplifiers segment. Research and development expenses in our mobile data communications segment were $0.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , and nominal for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . The remaining research and development expenses of $0.2 million for both the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is not allocated to our three reportable operating segments. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , customers reimbursed us $2.5 million and $3.0 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses, but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Research and development expenses during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 are expected to be lower than the amount reported during the three months ended April 30, 2015 . For fiscal 2015, we expect research and development expenses, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be higher than in fiscal 2014. Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $1.6 million for both the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 . Operating Income. Operating income for the three months ended April 30, 2015 was $7.2 million, or 10.1% of consolidated net sales as compared to $10.6 million, or 11.9% of consolidated net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . Operating income (both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales) is discussed below, by segment. Our telecommunications transmission segment generated operating income of $7.3 million, or 16.0% of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to $10.4 million, or 17.0% of related segment net sales for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . The decrease in operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is primarily due to lower net sales activity offset, in part, by a higher gross profit, as a percentage of related net sales, as discussed above, and lower spending on research and development expenses. For the year, we anticipate that operating income in this segment, in dollars, will be lower as compared to fiscal 2014, but similar as a percentage of related segment net sales. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment generated operating income of $1.3 million, or 6.6% of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to $1.4 million, or 6.2% of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . The decrease in operating income, in dollars, and the increase, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is primarily attributable to lower segment net sales and changes in overall segment sales mix, as discussed above. Given the timing of expected orders and related segment net sales, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 is expected to be the peak quarter for operating income (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales). For the year, we anticipate that operating income (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) will be higher than the level we achieved in fiscal 2014. Our mobile data communications segment generated operating income of $2.6 million, or 41.3% of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2015 which was comparable to the $2.3 million, or 44.2% of related segment net sales, for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . Based on the type of orders that are currently in our backlog and the anticipated orders we expect to receive, operating income in this segment (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) in fiscal 2015 is expected to be lower than the level we achieved in fiscal 2014. 34 Index Unallocated operating expenses were $4.0 million and $3.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The increase reflects additional expenses associated with our senior leadership changes announced by our Board of Directors in December 2014. Given our senior leadership changes and related incremental compensation cost, as well as expenses associated with our completed strategic alternatives analysis, unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2015 are expected to be higher than the amount we reported in fiscal 2014. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is included in unallocated operating expenses, was $1.2 million and $1.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Based on the amount of outstanding equity awards, stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2015 is expected to be higher than fiscal 2014. Because overall global business conditions remain challenging, it remains difficult to predict our consolidated sales mix, making it difficult to estimate future operating margins as a percentage of consolidated net sales. Excluding any potential one-time charges resulting from the assessment of our operations being conducted by our President and Chief Executive Officer, which is discussed further in the section entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2015, we are targeting our fiscal 2015 operating income, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to approximate 11.0%. Interest Expense. Interest expense was $0.1 million and $2.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The decrease is primarily the result of the settlement of $200.0 million principal amount of our 3.0% convertible senior notes in May 2014. As these notes have not been outstanding in fiscal 2015, we expect interest expense for fiscal 2015 to be significantly lower than fiscal 2014. Interest Income and Other. Interest income and other for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 was $0.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively. The decrease of $0.2 million is primarily attributable to lower cash balances. Interest income and other for both periods is primarily generated from interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits, money market mutual funds, certificates of deposit, and short-term U.S. Treasury securities which, at this time, are currently yielding a blended annual interest rate of approximately 0.43%. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $2.2 million and $3.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Our effective tax rate was 31.1% for the three months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to 33.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . Our effective tax rate for both the three months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 reflects a discrete tax benefit of approximately $0.3 million, principally related to the reversal of tax contingencies no longer required due to the expiration of applicable statutes of limitation. Excluding these discrete tax items in both periods, our effective tax rate for three months ended April 30, 2015 would have been 34.75% as compared to 36.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2014 . The decrease from 36.5% to 34.75% is principally attributable to the expected product and geographical mix changes reflected in our fiscal 2015 business outlook. Excluding the impact of any discrete tax items, our fiscal 2015 estimated effective tax rate is expected to approximate 34.75% . Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2012 through 2014 are subject to potential future IRS audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2015 AND APRIL 30, 2014 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $229.8 million and $257.8 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, representing a decrease of $28.0 million, or 10.9% . As further discussed below, the period-over-period decrease reflects lower net sales in all three of our operating segments. Telecommunications Transmission Net sales in our telecommunications transmission segment were $150.9 million and $172.1 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, a decrease of $21.2 million, or 12.3% . This decrease reflects lower comparative net sales in both our satellite earth station and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines, as further discussed below. 35 Index Both sales and bookings of our satellite earth station products were significantly lower during the nine months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . As discussed in the section entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2015, many of our customers continue to face economic headwinds such as the impact of lower oil prices and the strength of the U.S. dollar, the currency in which virtually all of our sales are denominated. As such, we do not expect business conditions to meaningfully improve during our fourth quarter. Based on our year-to-date and expected fourth quarter performance, fiscal 2015 net sales for this product line are anticipated to be significantly lower than in fiscal 2014. If we do not receive and ship expected orders, we may not be able to achieve our expected level of net sales. Sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems were significantly lower during the nine months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . During our most recent quarter, we continued our ongoing performance on our two large multi-year contracts to design and supply over-the-horizon microwave systems and equipment for use in a North African government's communications network. Although both of these contracts are nearing completion, we have multiple large over-the-horizon microwave system project opportunities with both U.S. government and international customers that we expect to receive orders for. The U.S. Army recently completed extensive testing of our transportable troposcatter systems in preparation for initial fielding in support of operations and we believe it will soon place orders for our MTTS for Army-wide fielding. On the international front, we continue to market our over-the-horizon microwave systems to several new potential customers who have expressed strong interest in purchasing our products. The potential awards for these projects are large and the sales cycles are long; however, we believe that some of these potential international customers are nearing the end of their procurement cycles. New orders and related sales for over-the-horizon microwave system contracts are generally difficult to predict. Based on expected performance on contracts that are currently in our backlog and the timing of other contracts that we anticipate receiving, we expect net sales for this product line during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 to be lower than our most recent quarter and expect fiscal 2015 net sales to be lower than the level we achieved in fiscal 2014. Our telecommunications transmission segment represented 65.7% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to 66.8% for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . Bookings, sales and profitability in our telecommunications transmission segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including the book and ship nature of our satellite earth station products, the current volatile and adverse conditions in the global economy, and the timing of, and our related performance on, contracts from the U.S. government (including prime contractors to the U.S. government) and from both existing and new international customers. RF Microwave Amplifiers Net sales in our RF microwave amplifiers segment were $60.1 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to $64.7 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 , a decrease of $4.6 million, or 7.1% . This decrease reflects lower sales in both our traveling wave tube amplifier and solid-state high-power amplifier product lines. To date, the aforementioned volatile business conditions that have impacted our satellite earth station product line have not significantly impacted our RF microwave amplifiers segment. Although we now expect some previously anticipated orders to be received in fiscal 2016 rather than fiscal 2015, customer reaction to our new Super-Power traveling wave tube amplifiers (which we introduced during the third quarter of fiscal 2015) has been extremely positive. Recently, we announced the receipt of our first order for this product and we expect additional orders during the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2015. Although timing of anticipated orders is always difficult to predict, we are expecting fourth quarter fiscal 2015 net sales for this product line to be higher than our most recent quarter and to be the peak quarter for fiscal 2015. As such, we expect net sales in this segment in fiscal 2015 to be higher than the level we achieved in fiscal 2014. However, if we do not receive expected orders or business conditions deteriorate from current levels, we may not be able to achieve our expected level of sales in this segment in fiscal 2015. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment represented 26.1% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to 25.1% for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . Bookings, sales and profitability in our RF microwave amplifiers segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including the challenging business conditions and U.S. and international military budget constraints, and the timing of, and our related performance on, contracts from the U.S. government (including prime contractors to the U.S. government) and international customers. Mobile Data Communications Net sales in our mobile data communications segment were $18.9 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to $ 20.9 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 , a decrease of $2.0 million, or 9.6% . This decline in sales is largely attributable to the absence of sales of certain SENS technology and products, and lower sales to a small customer during the nine months ended April 30, 2015 . In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we sold certain of our SENS technology and products, including certain intellectual property, to one of our customers for approximately $2.0 million and generated nominal royalties in this product line for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 . 36 Index During the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , BFT-1 sustainment sales to the U.S. Army were $18.0 million, or 95.2% , and $16.1 million , or 77.0% , respectively, of our mobile data communications segment's sales. Sales in both comparative periods include $7.5 million of revenue related to our annual $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license fee. As discussed in more detail in the section entitled Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended April 30, 2015 and April 30, 2014 , we are currently providing BFT-1 sustainment support for the U.S. Army pursuant to two contracts that have a combined not to exceed value aggregating $68.5 million. Total funding received to-date for both contracts approximates $43.4 million. Based on our year-to-date performance and the current level of our backlog, net sales in our mobile data communications segment are expected to be lower in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. Our current BFT-1 sustainment and intellectual property license contracts can be terminated for convenience by the U.S. government at any time, are not subject to automatic renewal, and the U.S. Army is not obligated to purchase any additional services, purchase intellectual property, provide incremental funding, or exercise its option to extend these contracts. Both contracts provide for one remaining twelve-month option period exercisable by the U.S. Army. If the U.S. Army exercises Option Year 2 of the intellectual property license agreement and pays the related $10.0 million of intellectual property license fee, which covers the period April 1, 2016 through March 31, 2017, the U.S. Army will receive a limited non-exclusive right to use certain of Comtech's intellectual property after March 31, 2017 for no additional fee. Our mobile data communications segment represented 8.2% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to 8.1% for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . Bookings, sales and profitability in our mobile data communications segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding and deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Geography and Customer Type Sales to U.S. government end customers approximated 29.7% and 28.1% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. International sales (which include sales to U.S. companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) approximated 57.8% and 59.0% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Domestic commercial sales approximated 12.5% and 12.9% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Gross Profit. Gross profit was $105.5 million and $ 112.1 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, representing a decrease of $6.6 million which was primarily driven by lower consolidated net sales, partially offset by a higher overall gross profit percentage. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 was 45.9% as compared to 43.5% for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment sales, is discussed below. Our telecommunications transmission segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , was higher than the percentage achieved for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . This increase was primarily attributable to better than expected performance on our two large over-the-horizon microwave system contracts for our North African country end-customer. Both of these contracts are nearing completion. Our gross profit also benefited from $1.0 million of reductions in warranty obligations due to lower than anticipated warranty claims on a contract whose warranty period expired on April 30, 2015. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 was higher as compared to the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . This increase is primarily the result of changes in overall segment sales mix. Our mobile data communications segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , was lower as compared to the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . The decrease is primarily the result of changes in overall segment sales mix. The gross profit during the nine months ended April 30, 2014 reflects the benefit of revenue of $2.0 million related to the sale of certain SENS technology-based solutions, as discussed above. Gross profit in both periods includes $7.5 million of profit related to our annual $10.0 million BFT-1 intellectual property license. 37 Index Included in consolidated cost of sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $2.0 million and $2.2 million , respectively. As discussed in our Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory, we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage assumptions. Because our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each individual segment, it is difficult to forecast. Nevertheless, based on our anticipated performance on orders currently in our consolidated backlog and on orders we expect to receive, we anticipate that our consolidated gross profit in fiscal 2015, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, will be slightly higher than the level we achieved in fiscal 2014. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $46.6 million and $ 49.9 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, representing a decrease of $3.3 million. Although selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 include incremental compensation costs associated with the senior leadership changes announced by our Board of Directors in December 2014, selling, general and administrative expenses were lower due to lower cash-based incentive compensation and lower legal costs. In addition, in response to the overall lower level of consolidated net sales expected in fiscal 2015, we have implemented a number of cost reduction actions to lower overall spending. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 20.3% and 19.4% for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The increase in percentage is due to lower overall consolidated net sales during the nine months ended April 30, 2015 . Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $3.0 million in the nine months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to $2.5 million in the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . This increase is primarily related to changes in the timing of grants for certain stock-based awards. As discussed in the section entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2015, our President and Chief Executive Officer has initiated an assessment of our operations which may result in future one-time charges. Excluding any potential one-time charges resulting from this assessment, selling, general and administrative expenses, in dollars, in fiscal 2015 are expected to be lower than in fiscal 2014 and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, are expected to be slightly higher. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $28.3 million and $25.7 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, representing an increase of $2.6 million, or 10.1% . As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 12.3% and 10.0% for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Although consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 were lower as compared to the nine months ended April 30, 2014 , we continue to invest in research and development projects that we believe will provide future growth. For the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , research and development expenses of $20.2 million and $18.7 million, respectively, related to our telecommunications transmission segment, and $6.6 million and $6.5 million, respectively, related to our RF microwave amplifiers segment. Research and development expenses in our mobile data communications segment were $1.0 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and nominal for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . The remaining research and development expenses of $0.5 million and $0.4 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is not allocated to our three reportable operating segments. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , customers reimbursed us $6.7 million and $9.7 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses, but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. Research and development expenses during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 are expected to be lower than the amount reported during the three months ended April 30, 2015 . For fiscal 2015, we expect research and development expenses, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be higher than in fiscal 2014. Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $4.7 million for both the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 . 38 Index Operating Income. Operating income for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 was $26.0 million, or 11.3% of consolidated net sales, as compared to $31.8 million, or 12.3% of consolidated net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . Operating income (both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales) is discussed below, by segment. Our telecommunications transmission segment generated operating income of $26.5 million, or 17.6% of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to $29.6 million, or 17.2% of related segment net sales for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . The decrease in operating income in dollars is primarily due to lower net sales activity and incremental investments in research and development activities. Operating income, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 reflects the benefit of a higher gross profit percentage in this segment, which as discussed above, benefited from better than expected performance on our two large over-the-horizon microwave system contracts for our North African country end-customer and $1.0 million of reductions in warranty obligations. For the year, we anticipate that operating income in this segment, in dollars, will be lower as compared to fiscal 2014, but similar as a percentage of related segment net sales. Our RF microwave amplifiers segment generated operating income of $3.3 million, or 5.5% of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to $3.1 million, or 4.8% of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . Although net sales during the nine months ended April 30, 2015 were lower than the nine months ended April 30, 2014 , operating income (both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales) benefited from overall changes in segment sales mix, partially offset by slightly higher research and development expenses, as discussed above. Given the timing of expected orders and related segment net sales, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 is expected to be the peak quarter for operating income (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales). For the year, we anticipate that operating income (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) will be higher than the level we achieved in fiscal 2014. Our mobile data communications segment generated operating income of $8.2 million, or 43.4% of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to $ 9.7 million, or 46.4% of related segment net sales, for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . The fluctuations in operating income metrics were primarily driven by lower net sales and increased research and development expenses, as discussed above. Based on the type of orders that are currently in our backlog and the anticipated orders we expect to receive, operating income in this segment (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) in fiscal 2015 is expected to be lower than the level we achieved in fiscal 2014. Unallocated operating expenses were $12.0 million and $10.5 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Unallocated operating expenses during the nine months ended April 30, 2015 include expenses related to our strategic alternatives analysis as well as additional expenses associated with our senior leadership changes that were announced by our Board of Directors in December 2014. As such, unallocated operating expenses in fiscal 2015 are expected to be higher than in fiscal 2014. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense, which is included in unallocated operating expenses, was $3.6 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to $3.1 million in the nine months ended April 30, 2014 , primarily due to changes in the timing of grants for certain stock-based awards. Based on the amount of outstanding equity awards, stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2015 is expected to be higher than fiscal 2014. Because overall global business conditions remain challenging, it remains difficult to predict our consolidated sales mix, making it difficult to estimate future operating margins as a percentage of consolidated net sales. Excluding any potential one-time charges resulting from the assessment of our operations being conducted by our President and Chief Executive Officer, which is discussed further in the section entitled Business Outlook for Fiscal 2015, we are targeting our fiscal 2015 operating income, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to approximate 11.0%. Interest Expense. Interest expense was $0.4 million and $6.0 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The decrease is primarily the result of the settlement of $200.0 million principal amount of our 3.0% convertible senior notes in May 2014. As these notes have not been outstanding in fiscal 2015, we expect interest expense for fiscal 2015 to be significantly lower than fiscal 2014. Interest Income and Other. Interest income and other for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 was $0.3 million and $0.8 million, respectively. The decrease of $0.5 million is primarily attributable to lower cash balances. Interest income and other for both periods is primarily generated from interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits, money market mutual funds, certificates of deposit, and short-term U.S. Treasury securities which, at this time, are currently yielding a blended annual interest rate of approximately 0.43%. 39 Index Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes was $8.1 million and $9.4 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Our effective tax rate was 31.3% for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , as compared to 35.4% for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . Our effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 reflects a discrete tax benefit of approximately $0.9 million, primarily related to (i) the passage of legislation that included the retroactive extension of the federal research and experimentation credit from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014; (ii) the finalization of certain tax deductions in connection with the filing of certain foreign fiscal 2014 income tax returns; and (iii) the reversal of tax contingencies no longer required due to the expiration of applicable statutes of limitation. Our effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 reflects a discrete tax benefit of approximately $0.3 million. Excluding discrete tax items in both periods, our effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 would have been 34.75% as compared to 36.5% for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . The decrease from 36.5% to 34.75% is principally attributable to the expected product and geographical mix changes reflected in our fiscal 2015 business outlook. Excluding the impact of any discrete tax items, our fiscal 2015 estimated effective tax rate is expected to approximate 34.75% . Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2012 through 2014 are subject to potential future IRS audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents decreased to $142.0 million at April 30, 2015 from $154.5 million at July 31, 2014 , a decrease of $12.5 million . The decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the nine months ended April 30, 2015 was driven by the following: Net cash provided by operating activities was $ 7.7 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to $ 10.8 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . The period-over-period decrease in cash flow from operating activities is attributable to overall changes in net working capital requirements, most notably the timing of billings and payments related to our large over-the-horizon microwave system contracts. Given our expected fourth quarter fiscal 2015 sales level and our expectations that we will invoice and collect a significant amount of receivables related to our two over-the-horizon microwave system contracts, we believe that we will generate significant cash flows from operating activities during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, although the exact amount is difficult to predict. Given our expected fiscal 2015 sales level, we expect operating cash flows in fiscal 2015 to be lower than the cash flows generated in fiscal 2014. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 was $ 2.8 million as compared to $ 4.5 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . Both of these amounts primarily represent expenditures relating to ongoing equipment upgrades and enhancements. Net cash used in financing activities was $ 17.3 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2015 as compared to $ 67.9 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2014 . During the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , we paid $14.6 million in cash dividends to our stockholders and spent $5.0 million for repurchases of our common stock. During the nine months ended April 30, 2014 , we paid $13.8 million in cash dividends to our stockholders and spent $58.1 million for repurchases of our common stock. Our investment policy relating to our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents is intended to minimize principal loss while at the same time maximize the income we receive without significantly increasing risk. To minimize risk, we generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in money market mutual funds (both government and commercial), certificates of deposit, bank deposits, and U.S. Treasury securities. Many of our money market mutual funds invest in direct obligations of the U.S. government, bank securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, certificates of deposit and commercial paper and other securities issued by other companies. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we believe our investment policies are appropriate in the current environment. Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market. 40 Index As of April 30, 2015 , our material short-term cash requirements primarily consist of cash necessary to fund: (i) our ongoing working capital needs, including income tax payments, (ii) accrued and anticipated quarterly dividends, and (iii) repurchases of our common stock that we may make pursuant to our stock repurchase program. During the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , we repurchased 175,735 shares of our common stock in open-market transactions with an average price per share of $28.39 and at an aggregate cost of $5.0 million (including transaction costs). During the nine months ended April 30, 2014 , we repurchased 1,851,303 shares of our common stock in open-market transactions with an average price per share of $31.40 and at an aggregate cost of $58.1 million (including transaction costs). As of April 30, 2015 and June 3, 2015 , we were authorized to repurchase up to an additional $8.7 million of our common stock, pursuant to our current $100.0 million stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase program has no time restrictions and repurchases may be made in open-market or privately negotiated transactions and may be made pursuant to SEC Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. In December 2013 , our Board of Directors increased our annual target dividend from $1.10 per common share to $1.20 per common share. During the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , our Board of Directors declared quarterly dividends of $0.30 per common share aggregating $14.6 million of which $9.7 million was paid during the nine months ended April 30, 2015 with the remainder paid on May 21, 2015 . On June 4, 2015 , our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per common share, payable on August 18, 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 17, 2015 . This latest dividend declaration represents our twentieth consecutive quarterly dividend. Future dividends are subject to Board approval. Our material long-term cash requirements primarily consist of payments relating to our operating leases. In addition, we expect to make future cash payments of approximately $4.9 million related to our 2009 Radyne-related restructuring plan, including accreted interest. For further information regarding our Radyne restructuring plan, see Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (8) Cost Reduction Actions - Radyne Acquisition-Related Restructuring Plan. We have historically met both our short-term and long-term cash requirements with funds provided by a combination of cash and cash equivalent balances, cash generated from operating activities and cash generated from financing transactions. In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions and overall adverse business conditions, we continue to receive requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. Because of our strong cash position and the nominal amount of interest we are earning on our cash and cash equivalents, we have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio and have not had any material negative customer credit experiences to date. Although it is difficult in the current economic and credit environment to predict the terms and conditions of financing that may be available in the future, should our short-term or long-term cash requirements increase beyond our current expectations, we believe that we would have sufficient access to credit from financial institutions and/or financing from public and private debt and equity markets. Based on our anticipated level of future sales and operating income, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalent balances and our cash generated from operating activities will be sufficient to meet both our currently anticipated short-term and long-term operating cash requirements. We currently expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2015 to be approximately $4.0 million to $5.0 million. FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS Credit Facility We have an uncommitted $15.0 million secured credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with one bank that provides for the extension of credit to us in the form of revolving loans, including letters of credit and standby letters of credit, at any time and from time to time during its term, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed $15.0 million . Subject to covenant limitations, the Credit Facility may be used for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The Credit Facility, which expires October 31, 2015 , can be terminated by us or the bank at any time without penalty. At April 30, 2015 , we had $3.2 million of standby letters of credit outstanding related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts and no outstanding commercial letters of credit. 41 Index OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS As of April 30, 2015 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. COMMITMENTS In the normal course of business, other than as discussed below, we routinely enter into binding and non-binding purchase obligations primarily covering anticipated purchases of inventory and equipment. We do not expect that these commitments, as of April 30, 2015 , will materially adversely affect our liquidity. At April 30, 2015 , cash payments due under long-term obligations, excluding purchase orders that we entered into in our normal course of business, are as follows: Obligations Due by Fiscal Years or Maturity Date (in thousands) Total Remainder of 2015 2016 and 2017 2018 and 2019 After 2019 Operating lease commitments $ 29,215 1,821 11,584 7,952 7,858 Less contractual sublease payments (647 ) (323 ) (324 ) Net contractual cash obligations $ 28,568 1,498 11,260 7,952 7,858 In December 2014, we entered into a multi-year purchase agreement in the amount of $12.9 million for certain inventory items. Such amount is not included in the above table because the purchase agreement is cancellable at our option. As of April 30, 2015 , our maximum liability under this purchase commitment was approximately $2.0 million. In May 2015, we entered into a ten-year lease for a new engineering and manufacturing facility to support anticipated revenue growth of our over-the-horizon microwave systems product line. The building is being constructed to our specifications by a third party with a targeted occupancy date of December 2015. Total lease payments over the lease term, including maintenance, are expected to approximate $9.4 million. As discussed further in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements Note (16) Stockholders Equity, on June 4, 2015 , our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per common share, payable on August 18, 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 17, 2015 . Future dividends are subject to Board approval. No dividend amounts are included in the above table. At April 30, 2015 , we have approximately $3.2 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to the guarantee of future performance on certain contracts. Such amounts are not included in the above table. In the ordinary course of business, we include indemnification provisions in certain of our customer contracts. Pursuant to these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify, hold harmless and reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, including but not limited to losses related to third-party intellectual property claims. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these agreements due to a history of nominal claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. To date, there have not been any material costs or expenses incurred in connection with such indemnification clauses. Our insurance policies may not cover the cost of defending indemnification claims or providing indemnification. As a result, if a claim were asserted against us by any party that we have agreed to indemnify, we could incur future legal costs and damages. We have change in control agreements, severance agreements and indemnification agreements with certain of our executive officers and certain key employees. All of these agreements may require payments by us, in certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in control of our Company or an involuntary termination of employment without cause. 42 Index Pursuant to an indemnification agreement with Mr. Kornberg (see Exhibit 10.1, "Form of Indemnification Agreement" in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 8, 2007), our Board of Directors agreed to pay, on behalf of Mr. Kornberg, expenses incurred by him in connection with an investigation conducted by the SEC and an investigation by the United States Attorney for the Eastern District Court of New York, on the condition that Mr. Kornberg repay such amounts to the extent that it is ultimately determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by us. To date, legal expenses paid on behalf of Mr. Kornberg have been nominal. We have incurred approximately $1.5 million of expenses (of which approximately $1.0 million was incurred in fiscal 2012 and approximately $0.5 million was incurred in fiscal 2013) responding to the subpoenas that are discussed in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (17) Legal Proceedings and Other Matters. Any amounts that may be advanced to Mr. Kornberg in the future are not included in the above table. Our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at April 30, 2015 includes total liabilities of $2.9 million for uncertain tax positions, including interest, any or all of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of any potential cash settlement with the taxing authorities. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS We are required to prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board's (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) which is the source for all authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which is commonly referred to as GAAP. The ASC is subject to updates by the FASB, which are known as Accounting Standards Updates (ASUs). As further discussed in Note (2) Adoption of Accounting Standards and Updates included in Part I Item 1. Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, during the nine months ended April 30, 2015 , we adopted FASB: ASU No. 2013-04, which provides guidance for the recognition, measurement and disclosure of obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements, for which the total amount of the obligation is fixed at the reporting date. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements and or disclosures. ASU No. 2013-05, which requires a parent company that ceases to have a controlling interest in a subsidiary or group of assets that is a non profit entity or business within a foreign entity, to release any cumulative translation adjustment into net income only if the sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or group of assets had resided. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. ASU No. 2013-07, which clarifies that an entity should apply the liquidation basis of accounting when liquidation is imminent, as defined. This ASU also provides principles for the recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities and requirements for financial statements prepared using the liquidation basis of accounting. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. ASU No. 2013-11, which amends the presentation requirements of ASC 740, "Income Taxes," and requires that unrecognized tax benefits, or portions of unrecognized tax benefits, relating to a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to the associated deferred tax asset. Although adoption of this ASU was not material, information about its impact on us is described in " Note (10) Income Taxes " included in " Part I - Item 1. - Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. " ASU No. 2014-17, which provides an acquired entity with an option to apply pushdown accounting in its separate financial statements upon occurrence of an event in which an acquirer obtains control of the acquired entity. Our adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. ASU No. 2015-08, which amends various paragraphs in ASC 805, "Business Combinations," as a result of the issuance of SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 115 and guidance on push down accounting. We adopted this ASU, as required, in May 2015. Adoption of this ASU did not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. 43 Index In addition, the following FASB ASUs have been issued and incorporated into the ASC and have not yet been adopted by us as of April 30, 2015 : FASB ASU No. 2014-08, issued in April 2014, which changed the definition of discontinued operations and related disclosure requirements. Only those disposed components (or components held-for-sale) representing a strategic shift that have (or will have) a major effect on operations and financial results will be reported as discontinued operations. Continuing involvement will no longer prevent a disposal group from being presented as discontinued operations. This ASU is effective prospectively in our first quarter of fiscal 2016. As we do not currently have any disposals contemplated, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. FASB ASU No. 2014-09, issued in May 2014, which will replace numerous requirements in U.S. GAAP, including industry-specific requirements, and provide companies with a single revenue recognition model for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers. The core principle of the new standard is that a company should record revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This ASU is effective in our first quarter of fiscal 2018, and can be adopted either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. Early adoption is not permitted. We are currently determining which transition approach to use and evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements, including financial reporting and disclosures. However, under the new standard, we expect to continue using the cost-to-cost percentage of completion method to recognize revenue for most of our long term contracts. FASB ASU No. 2014-12, issued in June 2014, which requires that a performance target which affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. As such, the performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant-date fair value of the award at the grant date. This ASU is effective in our first quarter of fiscal 2017, and can be adopted either (a) prospectively to all awards granted or modified after the effective date, or (b) retrospectively to all awards with performance targets that are outstanding as of the beginning of the earliest annual period presented in the financial statements and to all new or modified awards thereafter. As we currently do not have share-based awards outstanding with a performance target that could be achieved after the requisite service period, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. FASB ASU No. 2014-15, issued in August 2014, which provides guidance about management's responsibility to evaluate whether there is a substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. This ASU is effective for the annual period ending after December 15, 2016 (our fiscal year ending on July 31, 2017). Early adoption is permitted. As we currently do not believe that there is a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. FASB ASU No. 2014-16, issued in November 2014, which requires an entity that issues or invests in hybrid financial instruments, issued in the form of a share, to determine the nature of the host contract by considering all stated and implied substantive terms and features of the hybrid financial instrument, weighing each term and feature on the basis of relevant facts and circumstances and including the embedded derivative feature that is being evaluated for separate accounting from the host contract. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2016). Early adoption is permitted. As we currently do not issue or invest in such hybrid financial instruments, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. FASB ASU No. 2015-01, issued in January 2015, which eliminates the concept of extraordinary items from GAAP and expands the presentation and disclosure guidance for items that are unusual in nature or occur infrequently. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2016), and can be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. Early adoption is permitted provided that this ASU is applied from the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. As we currently do not have extraordinary items presented in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2015 or the comparable prior fiscal year periods, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. 44 Index FASB ASU No. 2015-02, issued in February 2015, which amends current consolidation guidance affecting the evaluation of whether certain legal entities should be consolidated. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2016), and can be adopted either retrospectively or using a modified retrospective approach by recording a cumulative-effect adjustment to equity as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. Early adoption is permitted. We do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. FASB ASU No. 2015-03, issued in April 2015, which requires that debt issuance costs be presented as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability, consistent with the presentation of debt discounts. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2016), and should be applied on a retrospective basis. Early adoption is permitted for financial statements that have not been previously issued. As we currently do have any outstanding debt liability or debt issuance costs, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption. FASB ASU No. 2015-05, issued in April 2015, which provides guidance to customers about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. This ASU is effective for annual periods, including interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2015 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2016), and can be adopted either prospectively to all arrangements entered into or materially modified after the effective date, or retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently determining which transition approach to use and evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements. FASB ASU No. 2015-07, issued in May 2015, which removes the requirements to categorize within the fair value hierarchy, and make certain disclosures related to, investments for which fair value is measured using the net asset value per share practical expedient. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, and interim periods within those fiscal years (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2016), and should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented in an entity's financial statements. Early adoption is permitted. As we currently do not have investments for which fair value is measured using the net asset value per share practical expedient, we do not expect this ASU to impact our consolidated financial statements or disclosures upon adoption.