ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements, including but not limited to, information relating to our future performance and financial condition, plans and objectives of our management and our assumptions regarding such future performance, financial condition, and plans and objectives that involve certain significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors not under our control which may cause our actual results, future performance and financial condition, and achievement of our plans and objectives to be materially different from the results, performance or other expectations implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among other things: the possibility that the expected synergies from the acquisition of Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom") will not be fully realized, or will not be realized within the anticipated time period; the risk that Comtech's and Solacom's business will not be integrated successfully; the possibility of disruption from the Solacom acquisition, making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships or retain key personnel; the risk that Comtech will be unsuccessful in implementing a tactical shift in its Government Solutions segment away from bidding on large commodity service contracts and toward pursuing contracts for its niche products with higher margins; the risks associated with Comtech's ongoing evaluation and repositioning of its enterprise technology solutions offering in its Commercial Solutions segment; the nature and timing of receipt of, and our performance on, new or existing orders that can cause significant fluctuations in net sales and operating results; the timing and funding of government contracts; adjustments to gross profits on long-term contracts; risks associated with international sales; rapid technological change; evolving industry standards; new product announcements and enhancements, including the risks associated with Comtech's recent launch of Heights TM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS" or "HDNA"); changing customer demands and or procurement strategies; changes in prevailing economic and political conditions; changes in the price of oil in global markets; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; risks associated with Comtech's legal proceedings, customer claims for indemnification, and other similar matters; risks associated with our obligations under our Credit Facility; risks associated with our large contracts; the impact of H.R.1, also known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Reform"), which was enacted in December 2017 in the U.S.; and other factors described in this and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). OVERVIEW We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide. Our solutions fulfill our customers needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical and other scenarios where performance is crucial. We manage our business through two reportable operating segments: Commercial Solutions - serves commercial customers and smaller governments, such as state and local governments, that require advanced communication technologies to meet their needs. This segment also serves certain large government customers (including the U.S. government) that have requirements for off-the-shelf commercial equipment. We believe this segment is a leading provider of satellite communications (such as satellite earth station modems and traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA")), public safety systems (such as next generation 911 ("NG911") technologies) and enterprise application technologies (such as a messaging and trusted location-based technologies). Government Solutions - serves large government end-users (including those of foreign countries) that require mission critical technologies and systems. We believe this segment is a leading provider of command and control applications (such as the design, installation and operation of data networks that integrate computing and communications (including both satellite and terrestrial links)), ongoing network operation and management support services including project management and fielding and maintenance solutions related to satellite ground terminals), troposcatter communications (such as digital troposcatter multiplexers, digital over-the-horizon modems, troposcatter systems, and frequency converter systems) and RF power and switching technologies (such as solid state high-power broadband amplifiers, enhanced position location reporting system (or commonly known as "EPLRS") amplifier assemblies, identification friend or foe amplifiers, and amplifiers used in the counteraction of improvised explosive devices). 32 Index Our Quarterly Financial Information Quarterly and period-to-period sales and operating results may be significantly affected by either short-term or long-term contracts with our customers. In addition, our gross profit is affected by a variety of factors, including the mix of products, systems and services sold, production efficiencies, estimates of warranty expense, price competition and general economic conditions. Our gross profit may also be affected by the impact of any cumulative adjustments to contracts that are accounted for over time. Our contracts with the U.S. government can be terminated for convenience by it at any time and orders are subject to unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by the U.S. government. Some of these contracts are indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts and, as such, the U.S. government is not obligated to purchase any equipment or services under these contracts. We have, in the past, experienced and we continue to expect significant fluctuations in sales and operating results from quarter-to-quarter and period-to-period. As such, comparisons between periods and our current results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We consider certain accounting policies to be critical due to the estimation process involved in each. Revenue Recognition. On August 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2014-09 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)" or "ASC 606" applying the modified retrospective transition method. Except for new presentation or disclosure requirements, the impact of adoption, both as of August 1, 2018 and for the three and six months ended January 31, 2019 , was not material to our business, results of operations or financial condition. As a practical expedient, we adopted the new standard only for existing contracts as of August 1, 2018. All periods prior to August 1, 2018 will continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods. The core principle of ASC 606 is that revenue should be recorded in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for goods or services promised to customers. Under ASC 606, we follow a five-step model to: (1) identify the contract with our customer; (2) identify our performance obligations in our contract; (3) determine the transaction price for our contract; (4) allocate the transaction price to our performance obligations; and (5) recognize revenue using one of the following two methods: Over time - We recognize revenue using the over time method when there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer over the contractual period of performance. This generally occurs when we enter into a long-term contract relating to the design, development or manufacture of complex equipment or technology platforms to a buyers specification (or to provide services related to the performance of such contracts). Continuous transfer of control is typically supported by contract clauses which allow our customers to unilaterally terminate a contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of work-in-process. Revenue recognized over time is generally based on the extent of progress toward completion of the related performance obligations. The selection of the method to measure progress requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services provided. In certain instances, typically for firm fixed-price contracts, we use the cost-to-cost measure because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contracts. Under the cost-to-cost measure, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion, including warranty costs. Revenues, including estimated fees or profits, are recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. Costs to fulfill generally include direct labor, materials, subcontractor costs, other direct costs and an allocation of indirect costs. When these contracts are modified, the additional goods or services are generally not distinct from those already provided. As a result, these modifications form part of an existing contract and we must update the transaction price and our measure of progress for the single performance obligation and recognize a cumulative catch-up to revenue and gross profits. For over time contracts using a cost-to-cost measure of progress, we have an estimate at completion ("EAC") process in which management reviews the progress and execution of our performance obligations. This EAC process requires management judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenue and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Since certain contracts extend over a long period of time, the impact of revisions in revenue and or cost estimates during the progress of work may impact current period earnings through a cumulative adjustment. Additionally, if the EAC process indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period that it becomes evident. Contract revenue and cost estimates for significant contracts are generally reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly. 33 Index The cost-to-cost method is principally used to account for contracts in our command and control solutions and over-the-horizon microwave systems product lines and, to a lesser extent, certain location-based and messaging infrastructure contracts in our enterprise technology solutions product line. For service-based contracts in both our enterprise technology solutions and safety and security technology solutions product lines, we recognize revenue over time. These services are typically recognized as a series of services performed over the contract term using the straight-line method, or based on our customers actual usage of the networks and platforms which we provide. Point in time - When a performance obligation is not satisfied over time, we must record revenue using the point in time accounting method which generally results in revenue being recognized upon shipment or delivery of a promised good or service to a customer. This generally occurs when we enter into short term contracts or purchase orders where items are provided to customers with relatively quick turn-around times. Modifications to such contracts and or purchase orders, which typically provide for additional quantities or services, are accounted for as a new contract because the pricing for these additional quantities or services are based on standalone selling prices. Point in time accounting is principally applied to contracts in our satellite earth station product line (which includes satellite modems, traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTAs") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")) and solid-state high-power narrow and broadband amplifiers. Point in time accounting is also applied to certain contracts in our command and control solutions product line. The contracts related to these product lines do not meet the requirements for over time revenue recognition because our customers cannot utilize the equipment for its intended purpose during any phase of our manufacturing process; customers do not simultaneously receive and or consume the benefits provided by our performance; customers do not control the asset (i.e., prior to delivery, customers cannot direct the use of the asset, sell or exchange the equipment, etc.); and, although many of our contracts have termination for convenience clauses and or an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, our performance creates an asset with an alternative use through the point of delivery. In determining that our equipment has alternative use, we considered the underlying manufacturing process for our products. In the early phases of manufacturing, raw materials and work in process (including subassemblies) consist of common parts that are highly fungible among many different types of products and customer applications. Finished products are either configured to our standard configuration or based on our customers specifications. Finished products, whether built to our standard specification or to a customers specification, can be sold to a variety of customers and across many different end use applications with minimal rework, if needed, and without incurring a significant economic loss. When identifying a contract with our customer, we consider when it has approval and commitment from both parties, if the rights of the parties are identified, if the payment terms are identified, if it has commercial substance and if collectability is probable. When identifying performance obligations, we consider whether there are multiple promises and how to account for them. In our contracts, multiple promises are separated if they are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract. If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined into a single performance obligation. In some cases, we may also provide the customer with an additional service-type warranty, which we recognize as a separate performance obligation. Service-type warranties do not represent a significant portion of our consolidated net sales. When service-type warranties represent a separate performance obligation, the revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the extended warranty period. Our contracts, from time-to-time, may also include options for additional goods and services. To-date, these options have not represented material rights to the customer as the pricing for them reflects standalone selling prices. As a result, we do not consider options we offer to be performance obligations for which we must allocate a portion of the transaction price. In many cases, we provide assurance-type warranty coverage for some of our products for a period of at least one year from the date of delivery. When identifying the transaction price, we typically utilize the contract's stated price as a starting point. The transaction price in certain arrangements may include estimated amounts of variable consideration, including award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. We estimate variable consideration as the amount to which we expect to be entitled, and we include estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the estimation uncertainty is resolved. The estimation of this variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (e.g., historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available to us. 34 Index When allocating the contracts transaction price, we consider each distinct performance obligation. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contracts transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract. We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, internal costs, profit objectives and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations. Almost all of our contracts with customers are denominated in U.S. dollars and typically are either firm-fixed price or cost reimbursable type contracts (including fixed-fee, incentive-fee and time-and-material type contracts). In almost all of our contracts with customers, we are the principal in the arrangement and report revenue on a gross basis. Transaction prices for contracts with U.S. domestic and international customers are usually based on specific negotiations with each customer and in the case of the U.S. government, sometimes based on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services in accordance with applicable regulations. The timing of revenue recognition, billings and collections results in receivables, unbilled receivables and contract liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for over time, amounts are billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals (e.g., monthly) or upon achievement of contractual milestones. For certain contracts with provisions that are intended to protect customers in the event we do not satisfy our performance obligations, billings occur subsequent to revenue recognition, resulting in what we have historically presented as unbilled receivables. Under ASC 606, unbilled receivables constitute contract assets. On large long term contracts, and for contracts with international customers that do not do business with us regularly, payment terms typically require advanced payments and deposits. Under ASC 606, payments received from customers in excess of revenue recognized to-date results in a contract liability. These contract liabilities are not considered to represent a significant financing component of the contract because we believe these cash advances and deposits are generally used to meet working capital demands which can be higher in the earlier stages of a contract. Also, advanced payments and deposits provide us with some measure of assurance that the customer will perform on its obligations under the contract. Under the typical payment terms for our contracts accounted for at a point in time, costs are accumulated in inventory until the time of billing, which generally coincides with revenue recognition. We recognize the incremental costs to obtain or fulfill a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the asset is one year or less. Incremental costs to obtain or fulfill contracts with an amortization period greater than one year were not material. As commissions payable to our internal sales and marketing employees or contractors are contingent upon multiple factors, such commissions are not considered direct costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and are expensed as incurred in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As for commissions payable to our third party sales representatives related to large long-term contracts, we do consider these types of commissions both direct and incremental costs to obtain and fulfill such contracts. Therefore, such types of commissions are included in total estimated costs at completion for such contracts and expensed over time through cost of sales on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which work has not been performed as of the end of a fiscal period. Remaining performance obligations, which we refer to as backlog, exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under indefinite delivery / indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . As of January 31, 2019 , total goodwill recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $290.6 million (of which $231.4 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $59.2 million relates to our Government Solutions segment). Additionally, as of January 31, 2019 , net intangibles recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet aggregated $232.2 million (of which $192.1 million relates to our Commercial Solutions segment and $40.1 million relates to our Government Solutions segment). Each of our two operating segments constitutes a reporting unit and we must make various assumptions in determining their estimated fair values. As a result of our acquisition of Solacom in February 2019, we anticipate an increase in goodwill for our Commercial Solutions segment. Such increase is not yet reflected in the amount above. See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (2) - Solacom Acquisition - Subsequent Event" for further information. 35 Index In accordance with FASB ASC 350 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," we perform a goodwill impairment analysis at least annually (in the first quarter of each fiscal year), unless indicators of impairment exist in interim periods. If we fail the quantitative assessment of goodwill impairment ("quantitative assessment"), pursuant to our adoption of FASB ASU No. 2017-04 in fiscal 2017, we would be required to recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeded its fair value; however, any loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. On August 1, 2018 (the first day of our fiscal 2019 ), we performed our annual quantitative assessment using market participant assumptions to determine if the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill exceeded its carrying value. In making this assessment, we considered, among other things, expectations of projected net sales and cash flows, assumptions impacting the weighted average cost of capital, trends in trading multiples of comparable companies, changes in our stock price and changes in the carrying values of our reporting units with goodwill. We also considered overall business conditions. In performing the quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of each of our reporting units using a combination of the income and market approaches. The income approach, also known as the discounted cash flow ("DCF") method, utilizes the present value of cash flows to estimate fair value. The future cash flows for our reporting units were projected based on our estimates, at that time, of future revenues, operating income and other factors (such as working capital and capital expenditures). For purposes of conducting our impairment analysis, we assumed revenue growth rates and cash flow projections that are below our actual long-term expectations. The discount rates used in our DCF method were based on a weighted-average cost of capital ("WACC") determined from relevant market comparisons, adjusted upward for specific reporting unit risks (primarily the uncertainty of achieving projected operating cash flows). A terminal value growth rate was applied to the final year of the projected period and reflected our estimate of stable, perpetual growth. We then calculated a present value of the respective cash flows for each reporting unit to arrive at an estimate of fair value under the income approach. Under the market approach, we estimated a fair value based on comparable companies' market multiples of revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and factored in a control premium. Finally, we compared our estimates of fair values to our August 1, 2018 total public market capitalization and assessed implied control premiums based on our common stock price of $33.70 as of August 1, 2018 . Based on our quantitative evaluation, we determined that our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their carrying values of at least 42.5% and 105.5% , respectively, and concluded that our goodwill was not impaired and that neither of our two reporting units was at risk of failing the quantitative assessment. It is possible that, during fiscal 2019 or beyond, business conditions (both in the U.S. and internationally) could deteriorate from the current state, our current or prospective customers could materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services to a greater extent than we currently anticipate, or our common stock price could decline. A significant decline in our customers' spending that is greater than we anticipate or a shift in funding priorities may also have a negative effect on future orders, sales, income and cash flows and we might be required to perform a quantitative assessment during fiscal 2019 or beyond. If assumed net sales and cash flow projections are not achieved in future periods or our common stock price significantly declines from current levels, our Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions reporting units could be at risk of failing the quantitative assessment and goodwill and intangibles assigned to the respective reporting units could be impaired. In any event, we are required to perform the next annual goodwill impairment analysis on August 1, 2019 (the start of our fiscal 2020). If our assumptions and related estimates change in the future, or if we change our reporting unit structure or other events and circumstances change (e.g., a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock (considered on both absolute terms and relative to peers)), we may be required to record impairment charges when we perform these tests, or in other future periods. In addition to our impairment analysis of goodwill, we also review net intangible assets with finite lives when an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment. We believe that the carrying values of our net intangible assets were recoverable as of January 31, 2019 . Any impairment charges that we may record in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Provision for Assurance-Type Warranty Obligations. We provide assurance-type warranty coverage for most of our products, including products under long-term contracts, for a period of at least one year from the date of shipment. We record a liability for estimated warranty expense based on historical claims, product failure rates and other factors. Costs associated with some of our warranties that are provided under long-term contracts are incorporated into our estimates of total contract costs. There exist inherent risks and uncertainties in estimating warranty expenses, particularly on larger or longer-term contracts. If we do not accurately estimate our warranty costs, any changes to our original estimates could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. 36 Index Accounting for Income Taxes. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. Our provision for income taxes is based on domestic (including federal and state) and international statutory income tax rates in the tax jurisdictions where we operate, permanent differences between financial reporting and tax reporting and available credits and incentives. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. The U.S. federal government is our most significant income tax jurisdiction. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and tax positions. We may be challenged upon review by the applicable taxing authority and positions taken by us may not be sustained. We recognize all or a portion of the benefit of income tax positions only when we have made a determination that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination, based upon the technical merits of the position and other factors. For tax positions that are determined as more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, the tax benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The development of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets and reserves for income tax positions requires consideration of timing and judgments about future taxable income, tax issues and potential outcomes, and are subjective critical estimates. A portion of our deferred tax assets consist of federal net operating losses and federal research and experimentation tax credit carryforwards, most of which was acquired in connection with our acquisition of TCS. No valuation allowance has been established on these deferred tax assets based on our evaluation that our ability to realize such assets has met the criteria of "more likely than not." We continuously evaluate additional facts representing positive and negative evidence in determining our ability to realize these deferred tax assets. In certain circumstances, the ultimate outcome of exposures and risks involves significant uncertainties. If actual outcomes differ materially from these estimates, they could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, also known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Reform"), was enacted in the U.S. Tax Reform significantly lowered the amount of our current and future income tax expense primarily due to the reduction in the U.S. statutory income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%. This provision went into effect on January 1, 2018 and required us to remeasure our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In fiscal 2019 and beyond, Tax Reform will result in the loss of our ability to take the domestic production activities deduction, which has been repealed, and is also likely to result in lower tax deductions for certain executive compensation expenses. During the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018, we remeasured our deferred tax assets and liabilities. The remeasurement was recorded pursuant to ASC 740 "Income Taxes" and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118. All amounts recorded were based on available guidance on interpretation of Tax Reform and what we believe to be reasonable approaches to estimating its impact; however, such amounts are estimates and are subject to adjustment as future guidance becomes available, additional facts become known or estimation approaches are refined. See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (13) - Income Taxes" for further information on the provisions of Tax Reform and its currently expected impact on our business. The overall actual impact of Tax Reform is currently uncertain, and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2015 and 2017 are subject to potential future Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2014 are subject to audit. TCS' federal income tax returns for tax year 2015 and the tax period from January 1, 2016 to February 23, 2016 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of TCS' state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2014 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Research and Development Costs. We generally expense all research and development costs. Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other personnel-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs. Costs incurred internally in researching and developing software to be sold are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the software. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. Technological feasibility for our advanced communication software solutions is generally reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to customers and when we are able to validate the marketability of such product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. To date, capitalized internally developed software costs were not material. 37 Index Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory. We record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and future usage trends. Other factors may also influence our provision, including decisions to exit a product line, technological change and new product development. These factors could result in a change in the amount of excess and obsolete inventory on hand. Additionally, our estimates of future product demand may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if we determine that our inventory was overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our financial statements at the time of such determination. Any such charge could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We perform credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon customer payment history and current creditworthiness, as determined by our review of our customers current credit information. Generally, we will require cash in advance or payment secured by irrevocable letters of credit before an order is accepted from an international customer that we do not do business with regularly. In addition, we seek to obtain insurance for certain domestic and international customers. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. In light of ongoing tight credit market conditions, we continue to see requests from our customers for higher credit limits and longer payment terms. Because of our strong cash position and the nominal amount of interest we are earning on our cash and cash equivalents, we have, on a limited basis, approved certain customer requests. We continue to monitor our accounts receivable credit portfolio. Our overall credit losses have historically been within our expectations of the allowances established; however, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have in the past. Measurement of credit losses requires consideration of historical loss experience, including the need to adjust for changing business conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates and the financial health of specific customers. Changes to the estimated allowance for doubtful accounts could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. 38 Index Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 Our operating results for the second quarter were solid and we generated consolidated: Net sales of $164.1 million ; Operating income of $12.4 million ; Net income of $7.8 million ; Cash flows from operating activities of $27.2 million; and Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure discussed below) of $23.2 million . Our second quarter results exceeded our expectations on almost every front. We generated strong operating results, our business momentum remains strong and our pipeline of opportunities is growing. We achieved a consolidated book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) of 0.75 and finished the second quarter with consolidated backlog of $586.4 million. Although the level of our bookings we achieved during the second quarter was below our annual fiscal 2019 book-to-bill ratio goal of 1.0, demand for our products remains strong. We are pursuing a number of large opportunities, the timing of which remains difficult to predict. Nevertheless, we expect bookings during the second half of fiscal 2019 to increase from current levels and still target our annual book-to-bill ratio goal to be 1.0. Our backlog is more fully defined in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and the total value of multi-year contracts that we have received is substantially higher than our reported backlog. During the second quarter, we took several steps to improve operating efficiencies and make progress on achieving our long-term business goals, including: In January 2019, we announced our agreement to acquire Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom"), a leading provider of Next Generation 911 ("NG911") solutions for public safety agencies. The Solacom acquisition, which was completed on February 28, 2019, was a significant step in our strategy of enhancing our Commercial Solutions segments safety and security technology solutions. During the second quarter, we incurred $1.8 million of total acquisition plan expenses primarily associated with the closing of our acquisition of Solacom. During the second of quarter of fiscal 2019, we initiated efforts to acquire another small but growing technology solutions company, which we believe will further complement our product offerings. We expect to incur approximately $1.0 million of acquisition plan expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2019. There is no certainty that our acquisition plan efforts will be successful. We began an evaluation and repositioning of our enterprise technology product solutions in our Commercial Solutions segment in order to focus on providing higher margin solution offerings. To-date, we have ceased offering certain solutions and do not intend to renew certain contracts. In connection with our ongoing repositioning, we recorded $3.9 million of estimated contract settlement costs in our Commercial Solutions segment. We successfully resolved a legacy TCS intellectual property litigation matter and recorded a $3.2 million benefit in our Unallocated segment. Excluding the net financial impact of the aforementioned steps, our consolidated operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 would have been $14.9 million, or 9.1% of consolidated net sales, an improvement from the amounts and related percentages achieved in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and the second quarter of fiscal 2018. As of January 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were $46.0 million and our total debt outstanding (including capital leases and other obligations) was $176.3 million. Based on our strong fiscal 2019 year-to-date performance, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 has improved since December 6, 2018 (the date we filed our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC")) and we are increasing our targeted goals for consolidated net sales and Adjusted EBITDA. Our fiscal 2019 consolidated net sales are now expected to be higher and within a range of approximately $645.0 million to $660.0 million and our Adjusted EBITDA goal within a range of $85.0 million to $89.0 million. These targets reflect the benefit of strong demand we continue to see in many key product lines as well as a nominal financial contribution from Solacom. If order flow remains strong and we can achieve all of our fiscal 2019 business goals, it is possible that consolidated net sales and Adjusted EBITDA could be higher than our targeted amounts. In fiscal 2018, we reported consolidated net sales of $570.6 million and Adjusted EBITDA of $78.4 million. 39 Index Our updated GAAP earnings per diluted share ("EPS") target for fiscal 2019 is now within a range of approximately $0.86 to $0.98 and reflects the benefit of increased sales and operating performance, offset by the net financial impact of the aforementioned steps taken during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to improve our operating efficiencies and make progress towards achieving our long-term business goals. In addition, our GAAP EPS target now reflects: (i) an increase in amortization of intangibles of $0.5 million during the second half of fiscal 2019 related to the acquisition of Solacom; (ii) an increase in estimated interest expense of $0.8 million; and (iii) $1.0 million of acquisition plan expenses expected to be incurred during our third quarter of fiscal 2019 related to a targeted acquisition in addition to Solacom. We are also adjusting our expectations of the timing of our financial performance given our actual year-to-date performance and a number of shifts in the anticipated timing of potential awards and overall product mix changes, including the impact of the repositioning of our enterprise technology solution offerings. We now expect our consolidated net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 to approximate the amount we achieved in our second quarter of fiscal 2019, with GAAP operating income and Adjusted EBITDA approximating $9.0 million and $20.0 million, respectively. Given the strength of our backlog and timing of anticipated orders, our fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 is expected to be the peak quarter of the fiscal year for Adjusted EBITDA. After considering the impact of all GAAP operating expenses, we anticipate consolidated operating income, in dollars, to be higher than the $35.1 million we achieved in fiscal 2018 and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to the 6.2% we achieved in fiscal 2018. Also, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 (excluding net discrete items) is now expected to approximate 23.0%. Our updated fiscal 2019 financial targets include a number of items, the timing of which can still shift and impact our quarterly financial performance. However, we currently do not believe that changes in such timing would negatively impact our ability to achieve our revised consolidated net sales, GAAP operating income and Adjusted EBITDA targets for fiscal 2019. Our updated 2019 fiscal year financial targets depend, in large part, on timely deliveries and the receipt of, and performance on, orders from our customers and could be adversely impacted if orders and/or deliveries are delayed, business conditions deteriorate, or our current or prospective customers materially postpone, reduce or even forgo purchases of our products and services. Additionally, we continue to evaluate cost reduction initiatives in our business. Such actions primarily relate to reducing the size and cost of our facilities and repositioning our enterprise technology product solution offerings. Our updated fiscal 2019 financial targets do not consider the financial impact of any future actions we may take in this regard. On March 6, 2019 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on May 17, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 17, 2019 . Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility as well as Board approval. Additional information related to our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 and a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA is included in the below sections entitled "Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 " and "Comparison of the Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 ." 40 Index COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2019 AND 2018 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $164.1 million and $133.7 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, representing an increase of $30.4 million, or 22.7% . The significant period-over-period increase in net sales is primarily due to significantly higher net sales in our Government Solutions segment and, to a lesser extent, our Commercial Solutions segment. Net sales by operating segment are discussed below. Commercial Solutions Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were $86.7 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 , as compared to $85.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018 , an increase of $0.9 million, or 1.1% . Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 52.8% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to 64.2% for the three months ended January 31, 2018 . Bookings in our Commercial Solutions segment for the three months ended January 31, 2019 were strong and our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) was 0.88 . Important orders received during our second quarter of fiscal 2019 include: (i) $11.6 million in orders from the U.S. Navy to purchase our SLM-5650B satellite modems, upgrade kits and related services; (ii) a two-year agreement worth $3.6 million from a Fortune 500 company to provide location-based services ("LBS") platforms and applications; (iii) a $2.5 million order from a top-tier telecommunications service provider based in Saudi Arabia for various LBS platforms and applications; (iv) a renewal agreement worth more than $2.3 million from a Fortune 100 company for multiple LBS; (v) a $1.7 million order to deliver Next Generation 911 ("NG911") services for an association of counties in the State of Texas; (vi) a $1.7 million order for satellite block up converters ("BUCs"); (vii) a $1.4 million renewal contract from a Fortune Global 500 company for various navigation and telematics services; (viii) a $1.0 million order from a defense contractor for satellite modems to be deployed in support of a U.S. Air Force program; and (ix) a $1.0 million satellite modem order from a global satellite operator. As further discussed below, we have a growing pipeline of opportunities. Net sales of our satellite earth station products (which include satellite modems, traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTAs") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")) during the three months ended January 31, 2019 were slightly higher than the three months ended January 31, 2018 . Net sales during the most recent quarter include the benefit of incremental sales of our SLM-5650B satellite modems, upgrade kits and related services to the U.S. Navy, which positively impacted our operating income. Our Heights TM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS" or "HDNA") solutions continue to gain traction and we continue to seed and invest in the market. Although the sales cycle for HEIGHTS is longer than our historical satellite earth station product line, we expect a steady increase in sales of HEIGHTS throughout fiscal 2019. All-in-all, we believe that fiscal 2019 will be our second consecutive year of revenue growth for our satellite earth station product line. Net sales in the three months ended January 31, 2019 of both enterprise technology solutions (such as our location and messaging platforms) and safety and security technology solutions (such as our wireless and next generation 911 ("NG911") platforms) were slightly higher as compared to the net sales we achieved in the three months ended January 31, 2018 . Sales in this period include revenue contributions from two of the largest wireless carriers in the U.S. We believe that market conditions for safety and security technology solutions and enterprise technology solutions remain favorable, but they have long sales cycles and are subject to difficult-to-predict changes in the overall procurement strategies of wireless carrier customers. In February 2019, we closed on our acquisition of Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom"), which is a leading provider of NG911 solutions for public safety agencies. During the second quarter, we began repositioning certain of our enterprise technology products to focus on providing higher margin solution offerings. As such, we have ceased offering certain solutions and do not intend to renew certain contracts. Nevertheless, we expect sales of enterprise technology solutions as well as safety and security technology solutions to be higher than what we achieved in fiscal 2018. In the aggregate, we expect fiscal 2019 net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment to increase as compared to fiscal 2018. We also expect this segment's net sales in each of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019 to exceed the net sales achieved in the respective comparable quarters of fiscal 2018. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Commercial Solutions segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Government Solutions Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $77.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to $47.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018 , a significant increase of $29.5 million, or 61.6% . Our Government Solutions segment represented 47.2% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 , as compared to 35.8% for the three months ended January 31, 2018 . 41 Index As expected, bookings in our Government Solutions segment for the three months ended January 31, 2019 were relatively low as compared to recent prior quarters in which we received significant large orders. Our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) during the three months ended January 31, 2019 was 0.61 . Such variation in quarterly bookings is normal for this segment and our pipeline of opportunities remains strong. For example, during the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we were among a number of awardees under the U.S. Navys SeaPort Next Generation ("SeaPort-NxG") indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity ("IDIQ"), multiple-award contract vehicle with a total potential maximum value of $10.0 billion. All work under SeaPort-NxG will fall under two categories (engineering support services and program management support services), which are further divided into twenty-three functional areas such as systems engineering, research and development and logistics support. We do not record bookings until we receive funded orders. As such, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 does not include any bookings or revenue contributions from this IDIQ contract. However, over time, we would expect this contract award to benefit sales of our command and control solutions. Although the amount and timing of orders in our Government Solutions segment are difficult to predict, we are targeting to achieve a book-to-bill ratio of 1.0 for this segment for fiscal 2019. Important orders received during our second quarter of fiscal 2019 include: (i) $11.9 million of orders for cyber security training solutions; (ii) $6.9 million of orders to provide ongoing sustainment services to the U.S. Army for the AN/TSC-198A SNAP (Secret Internet Protocol Router ("SIPR") and Non-classified Internet Protocol Router ("NIPR") Access Point), Very Small Aperture Terminals ("VSATs"); (iii) $5.2 million of orders to supply Manpack Satellite Terminals, networking equipment and other advanced VSAT products to the U.S. Army (which were booked pursuant to our $223.4 million Global Tactical Advanced Communication Systems ("GTACS") contract with the U.S. Army's PM Tactical Network, which has a remaining unfunded contract value of $89.9 million as of January 31, 2019); (iv) $1.1 million of incremental funding from the U.S. Army related to the first option period under our Blue Force Tracking-1 ("BFT-1") sustainment contract; (v) $3.0 million of orders for antenna feeds to be incorporated into portable and inflatable 1.2-meter and 2.4-meter SATCOM terminals; and (vi) $1.2 million of orders from the City of Baltimore to deliver advanced communications solutions. The increase in net sales in this segment primarily reflects higher net sales of our command and control solutions, in particular, Manpack Satellite Terminals, networking equipment and other advanced VSAT products to the U.S. Army and deliveries of our next generation MT-2025 mobile satellite transceivers, which are also known as the Blue Force Tracker-2 High Capacity ("BFT-2-HC") satellite transceivers and, to a lesser extent, over-the-horizon microwave systems products. During the three months ended January 31, 2019 , we continued to work with the U.S. Army with respect to our MT-2025 satellite transceivers. These transceivers meet BFT-2 protocols, provide best-in-class reliability and are fully backward compatible with the BFT-1 system. Comtech currently provides sustaining support for the BFT-1 system and previously shipped over 100,000 BFT-1 mobile satellite transceivers. We started shipments of our MT-2025 satellite transceivers in fiscal 2018 pursuant to an $11.7 million order and completed such shipments in our second quarter of fiscal 2019. Because the amount and timing of any new MT-2025 satellite transceiver orders are difficult to predict, we have not included any revenue or earnings contributions in our updated Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019. Net sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems products for the three months ended January 31, 2019 were significantly higher than the three months ended January 31, 2018 , as business activity in this product line recently picked up. Our ongoing marketing and sales efforts, and our investments to expand this product line and expand into new international markets are yielding positive results. Net sales in the most recent quarter benefited from work performed on our $31.0 million order received in fiscal 2018 for Modular Transportable Transmission System ("MTTS") troposcatter terminals to be utilized as part of a deployable communications network for an Asia Pacific military service and a $9.1 million contract to supply another foreign military with our over-the-horizon microwave systems. Teaming with a large prime contractor, we recently submitted a proposal to supply a significant quantity of our over-the-horizon microwave systems to the U.S. Army. During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, our teaming partner informed us that its proposal was not being considered for further evaluation and that it has filed a formal protest. In a related development, we understand that the U.S. Marine Corps intends to issue a separate procurement proposal for over-the-horizon microwave systems. As such, we now believe that any potential award will be delayed by several months, if not longer. While disappointed in the delay, we believe our over-the-horizon microwave systems can meet the specifications and requirements of the U.S. Army as well as a forthcoming request from the U.S. Marine Corps. Ultimately, we believe we will be successful in supplying our troposcatter equipment to the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps. 42 Index Fielding schedules for our Government Solutions segment are fluid and there are a number of items that could shift between quarters. Based on our current assessment, we expect net sales in our Government Solutions segment in each of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019 to be lower than the amount we achieved in the second quarter. Overall, based on fiscal 2019 performance to date, the mix and anticipated timing of performance on orders in backlog and expected new orders, we anticipate that fiscal 2019 net sales for our Government Solutions segment will be significantly higher than fiscal 2018. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Government Solutions segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our U.S. and international government customers. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Geography and Customer Type Net sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of segment and consolidated net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: Three months ended January 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Consolidated U.S. government 24.0 % 14.7 % 69.0 % 61.7 % 45.2 % 31.5 % Domestic 50.4 % 55.6 % 11.3 % 17.7 % 32.0 % 42.0 % Total U.S. 74.4 % 70.3 % 80.3 % 79.4 % 77.2 % 73.5 % International 25.6 % 29.7 % 19.7 % 20.6 % 22.8 % 26.5 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Net sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic net sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. Included in domestic net sales, are sales to Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon"). Sales to Verizon were 10.1% and 10.5% , respectively, of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 . International net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $37.4 million and $35.4 million , respectively. Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10.0% of consolidated net sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 . Gross Profit. Gross profit was $61.2 million and $50.8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The increase of $10.4 million reflects significantly higher net sales in our Government Solutions segment, as discussed above. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was 37.3% as compared to 38.0% for the three months ended January 31, 2018 . The decrease in gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, was almost entirely driven by the significant period-to-period increase in net sales in our Government Solutions segment, as discussed above. This segment historically achieves lower gross margins than our Commercial Solutions segment. Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below. Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was higher than the three months ended January 31, 2018 due to a more favorable product mix (including deliveries of our satellite earth station equipment to the U.S. Navy). Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 assumes we continue to seed and invest in the market for our HEIGHTS solutions and that related sales will grow significantly from the level we achieved in fiscal 2018. Today, HEIGHTS solutions have lower gross margins than our traditional Single Channel per Carrier ("SCPC") satellite earth station modems and, given expected sales growth, our gross profit, as a percentage of satellite earth station product sales in fiscal 2019, is expected to be lower as compared to fiscal 2018. Over time, we believe that margins will improve as HEIGHTS volume increases. Overall, looking forward, based on the mix and anticipated timing of shipments and performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the mix and timing of expected new orders, gross profit for this segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for fiscal 2019 is expected to be lower than the level achieved in fiscal 2018. 43 Index Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was higher than the level we achieved in the three months ended January 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to overall favorable product mix changes during the most recent fiscal quarter, including a higher percentage of segment net sales related to our over-the-horizon microwave systems products. Based on the mix and anticipated timing of shipments and performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the mix and timing of expected new orders, gross profit for this segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for fiscal 2019 is expected to be comparable to the level achieved in fiscal 2018. Included in consolidated cost of sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $1.0 million and $1.7 million , respectively. As discussed in "Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory," we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage assumptions. Because our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each individual segment, it is inherently difficult to forecast. Nevertheless, based on expected bookings, expected timing of our performance on orders and the anticipated increase of Government Solutions segment net sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales, we currently expect our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2019 to be lower than the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2018. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $32.0 million and $27.2 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, representing an increase of $4.8 million, or 17.6%. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 19.5% and 20.3% for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The decrease, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is primarily attributable to the increase in our consolidated net sales. Excluding a $3.9 million expense for estimated contract settlement costs related to an ongoing repositioning of our enterprise technology solutions offerings in our Commercial Solutions segment, our selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2019 would have been $28.1 million, or 17.1% of consolidated net sales. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $1.1 million in the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to $1.0 million in the three months ended January 31, 2018. Amortization of stock-based compensation is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments. Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2019 selling, general and administrative expenses, in dollars, to be higher and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to the percentage achieved in fiscal 2018. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $14.0 million and $13.4 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, representing an increase of $0.6 million, or 4.5% . As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 8.5% and 10.0% for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. For the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , research and development expenses of $11.9 million and $11.4 million, respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment, and $2.0 million in both periods, related to our Government Solutions segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million for both the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , customers reimbursed us $2.3 million and $3.9 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. We continue to invest in enhancements to existing products as well as in new products across almost all of our product lines. Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2019 research and development expenses, in dollars, to be higher and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to fiscal 2018. 44 Index Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $4.3 million (of which $3.5 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $0.8 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and $5.3 million (of which $4.4 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $0.8 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the three months ended January 31, 2018 . The decrease from $5.3 million to $4.3 million was the result of certain intangible assets in our Commercial Solutions segment that became fully amortized in fiscal 2018. As a result of our acquisition of Solacom, we expect our quarterly run-rate for amortization to be approximately $0.3 million higher. As such, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 now assumes total annual amortization of intangibles to approximate $17.8 million, or an increase from the $17.2 million we previously expected. Settlement of Intellectual Property Litigation. During the three months ended January 31, 2019 , we recorded a $3.2 million benefit in our Unallocated segment as a result of a favorable ruling issued by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter. There was no comparable adjustment in the three months ended January 31, 2018 . Acquisition Plan Expenses. During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we incurred $1.8 million of total acquisition plan expenses. These expenses are recorded in our Unallocated segment and primarily related to our acquisition of Solacom, as discussed above. During our second quarter, we also initiated efforts to acquire another small but growing technology solutions company. Our acquisition plan effort is ongoing and we expect to incur approximately $1.0 million of additional expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2019. There is no certainty that our acquisition plan effort will be successful. Operating Income. Operating income for the three months ended January 31, 2019 was $12.4 million as compared to $4.9 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018 . Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is shown in the table below: Three months ended January 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Operating income (loss) $ 8.8 8.9 7.8 (0.3 ) (4.1 ) (3.7 ) $ 12.4 4.9 Percentage of related net sales 10.1 % 10.4 % 10.1 % (0.6 )% NA NA 7.6 % 3.7 % The slight decrease in our Commercial Solutions segments operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, reflects $3.9 million of estimated contract settlement costs, as discussed above. Excluding such charge, operating income in our Commercial Solutions segment for the three months ended January 31, 2019 would have been $12.7 million, or 14.6% of related segment net sales. That increase over the three months ended January 31, 2018 , both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, is due primarily to higher net sales at higher gross margins, lower amortization of intangibles and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, partially offset by higher research and development expenses, as discussed above. Looking forward, excluding the $3.9 million charge, we expect fiscal 2019 operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be similar to fiscal 2018. The significant increase in our Government Solutions segments operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily due to significantly higher net sales at higher gross margins, as discussed above. Looking forward, we expect fiscal 2019 operating income, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be significantly higher as compared to fiscal 2018. The increase in unallocated expenses is primarily due to increased business and sales activity during the quarter, acquisition plan expenses and a slight increase in amortization of stock-based compensation, offset in part by the benefit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above. Amortization of stock-based compensation was $1.2 million and $1.1 million , respectively for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018. Amortization of stock-based compensation can fluctuate from period-to-period based on the type and timing of stock-based awards, estimated forfeitures and the achievement of applicable performance goals. 45 Index On an annual basis, amortization of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2019 is expected to increase to a range of $11.0 million to $13.0 million as compared to the $8.6 million amortized in fiscal 2018. This increase is largely due to an increase in the number and value of annual non-equity incentive awards expected to be granted in fiscal 2019 as a result of anticipated operating income contributions from each of our two reportable operating segments. Like we did in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 assumes that we continue to pay certain annual non-equity incentive awards in the form of fully vested share units. If we do not achieve our fiscal 2019 business goals, amortization of stock-based compensation expense would be lower than our current expected fiscal 2019 range. Looking forward, unallocated operating expenses are expected to be higher in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. This expected increase is primarily due to anticipated changes in compensation costs (including amortization of stock-based compensation expense), acquisition plan expenses and other increased spending, offset in part by the benefit from the favorable ruling related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above. Consolidated GAAP operating income was $12.4 million or 7.6% of consolidated net sales in our most recent quarter as compared to GAAP operating income of $4.9 million or 3.7% of consolidated net sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Excluding the $1.8 million of acquisition plan expenses, $3.9 million expense for estimated contract settlement costs and $3.2 million benefit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above, consolidated operating income would have been $14.9 million, or 9.1% of consolidated net sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Looking forward, on a consolidated basis, we are targeting operating income, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to the 6.2% we achieved in fiscal 2018. Such GAAP operating income target includes the additional acquisition plan expenses expected during the remainder of fiscal 2019. Interest Expense. Interest expense was $2.3 million and $2.5 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in the three months ended January 31, 2019 was approximately 5.1%. Our current cash borrowing rate (which excludes the amortization of deferred financing costs) approximates 4.5%. Based on the type, terms, amount of outstanding debt (including capital leases and other obligations) and current interest rates, our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in fiscal 2019 is anticipated to range from 5.3% to 5.5%. Despite borrowing approximately $25.9 million to fund the cash portion of the Solacom acquisition purchase price, we do expect to generate strong cash flow from operating activities in the second half of fiscal 2019. Overall, total interest expense in fiscal 2019 is expected to approximate $10.0 million. Interest (Income) and Other. Interest (income) and other for both the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 was nominal. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding an immaterial interest rate. Provision For (Benefit From) Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes during the three months ended January 31, 2019 was $2.4 million as compared to a benefit of $13.3 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018 . During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we recorded a net discrete tax expense of less than $0.1 million. Excluding discrete tax items, our effective tax rate was 23.0%. During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $14.0 million, resulting from the passage of Tax Reform which required us to remeasure our deferred tax assets and liabilities (including liabilities associated with the non-deductible amortization related to our intangible assets). Our effective tax rate, excluding discrete tax items, for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was 27.75%. The decrease from 27.75% to 23.0% is principally attributable to the passage of Tax Reform which reduced the statutory income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%. Such decrease was partially offset by lower tax deductions for certain executive compensation expenses. 46 Index Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2015 and 2017 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2014 are subject to audit. TCS's federal income tax returns for tax year 2015 and the tax period from January 1, 2016 to February 23, 2016 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of TCS's state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2014 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Net Income. During the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, consolidated net income was $7.8 million and $15.8 million, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) for both the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 are shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): Three months ended January 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Net income (loss) $ 8.7 9.0 7.8 (0.3 ) (8.7 ) 7.1 $ 7.8 15.8 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 2.3 (13.3 ) 2.4 (13.3 ) Interest (income) and other (0.1 ) (0.1 ) Interest expense 2.2 2.5 2.3 2.5 Amortization of stock-based compensation 1.2 1.1 1.2 1.1 Amortization of intangibles 3.4 4.4 0.8 0.8 4.3 5.3 Depreciation 2.3 2.5 0.4 0.6 0.2 0.3 2.8 3.3 Estimated contract settlement costs 3.9 3.9 Settlement of intellectual property litigation (3.2 ) (3.2 ) Acquisition plan expenses 1.8 1.8 Adjusted EBITDA $ 18.4 15.8 9.0 1.1 (4.2 ) (2.4 ) $ 23.2 14.5 Percentage of related net sales 21.2 % 18.4 % 11.6 % 2.4 % NA NA 14.1 % 10.9 % The significant increase in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, during the three months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended January 31, 2018 is primarily attributable to significantly higher net sales, favorable product mix changes in both of our segments and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above. The increase in our Commercial Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily attributable to higher net sales at higher gross margins and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, offset in part by higher research and development expenses, as discussed above. The significant increase in our Government Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily driven by significantly higher net sales at higher gross margins, as discussed above. Because our Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each individual segment as well as unallocated spending, it is inherently difficult to forecast. In addition, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 includes a number of items, the timing of which can still shift and impact our expected quarterly financial performance. Nevertheless, based on expected bookings, expected timing of our performance on orders and the anticipated increase in our Government Solutions segment net sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales, we currently expect our Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2019 to be similar to the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2018. If order flow remains strong and we are able to achieve all of our fiscal 2019 business goals, it is possible that our fiscal 2019 Adjusted EBITDA could be higher than our targeted amount. 47 Index A reconciliation of our fiscal 2018 GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA of $78.4 million is shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): ($ in millions) Fiscal Year 2018 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA: Net income $ 29.8 Income taxes (5.1 ) Interest (income) and other 0.3 Interest expense 10.2 Amortization of stock-based compensation 8.6 Amortization of intangibles 21.1 Depreciation 13.7 Adjusted EBITDA $ 78.4 In addition, a reconciliation of our GAAP consolidated operating income, net income and net income per diluted share during the three months ended January 31, 2019 to the corresponding non-GAAP measures is shown in the table below (numbers and per share amounts in the table may not foot due to rounding): Three months ended January 31, 2019 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating Income Net Income Net Income per Diluted Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ 12.4 $ 7.8 $ 0.32 Estimated contract settlement costs 3.9 3.0 0.12 Settlement of intellectual property litigation (3.2 ) (2.5 ) (0.10 ) Acquisition plan expenses 1.8 1.4 0.06 Non-GAAP measures $ 14.9 $ 9.7 $ 0.40 Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other, write-off of deferred financing costs, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, estimated contract settlement costs, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses or strategic alternatives analysis expenses, facility exit costs and other. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts. We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies. Our Non-GAAP measures for consolidated operating income, net income and net income per diluted share reflect the GAAP measures as reported, adjusted for certain items as described. These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the above tables, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings. We have not quantitatively reconciled our fiscal 2019 Adjusted EBITDA target to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because items such as stock-based compensation, adjustments to the provision for income taxes, amortization of intangibles and interest expense, which are specific items that impact these measures, have not yet occurred, are out of our control, or cannot be predicted. For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable. Accordingly, reconciliations to the Non-GAAP forward looking metrics are not available without unreasonable effort and such unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our financial results. 48 Index COMPARISON OF THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31, 2019 AND 2018 Net Sales. Consolidated net sales were $325.0 million and $255.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, representing a significant increase of $69.7 million, or 27.3% . The significant period-over-period increase in net sales reflects significantly higher net sales in our Government Solutions segment and to a lesser extent, our Commercial Solutions segment. Net sales by operating segment are discussed below. Commercial Solutions Net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment were $164.7 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019 , as compared to $161.9 million for the six months ended January 31, 2018 , an increase of $2.8 million, or 1.7% . Our Commercial Solutions segment represented 50.7% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to 63.4% for the six months ended January 31, 2018 . Bookings in our Commercial Solutions segment for the six months ended January 31, 2019 were strong and our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) was 0.92 . Important orders received during the six month period in fiscal 2019 include: (i) $11.6 million in orders from the U.S. Navy to purchase our SLM-5650B satellite modems, upgrade kits and related services; (ii) a $6.8 million contract renewal to provide a GPS-enabled application to a key Fortune 100 customer; (iii) a contract valued at $5.5 million from a global telecommunications and media company to provide virtualized mobile device location-based services ("LBS"); (iv) a two-year agreement worth $3.6 million from a Fortune 500 company to provide LBS; (v) a $2.5 million order from a top-tier telecommunications service provider based in Saudi Arabia for various LBS; (vi) a renewal agreement worth more than $2.3 million from a Fortune 100 company for multiple LBS; (vii) a multi-year $1.9 million order from a top U.S. telecom service provider for hosted data assistance services related to the delivery of LBS; (viii) a $1.7 million order to deliver Next Generation 911 ("NG911") services for an association of counties in the State of Texas; (ix) a $1.7 million order for satellite block up converters ("BUCs"); (x) a $1.4 million renewal contract from a Fortune Global 500 company for various navigation and telematics services; and (xi) a multi-year contract extension totaling $1.2 million to provide Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") mandated enhanced 911 ("E911") and emergency call routing services to a U.S. wireless carrier. As further discussed below, we have a growing pipeline of opportunities. Net sales of our satellite earth station products (which include satellite modems, traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTAs") and solid-state power amplifiers ("SSPAs")) during the six months ended January 31, 2019 were higher than the six months ended January 31, 2018 . Net sales during the most recent year-to-date period include the benefit of incremental sales of our SLM-5650B satellite modems, upgrade kits and related services to the U.S. Navy, which positively impacted our operating income. Our Heights TM Dynamic Network Access Technology ("HEIGHTS" or "HDNA") solutions continue to gain traction and we continue to seed and invest in the market. Although the sales cycle for HEIGHTS is longer than our historical satellite earth station product line, we expect a steady increase in sales of HEIGHTS throughout fiscal 2019. All-in-all, we believe that fiscal 2019 will be our second consecutive year of revenue growth for our satellite earth station product line. Net sales in the six months ended January 31, 2019 of both enterprise technology solutions (such as our location and messaging platforms) and safety and security technology solutions (such as our wireless and next generation 911 ("NG911") platforms) were slightly lower as compared to the net sales we achieved in the six months ended January 31, 2018 . Sales in this period include revenue contributions from two of the largest wireless carriers in the U.S. We believe that market conditions for safety and security technology solutions and enterprise technology solutions remain favorable, but they have long sales cycles and are subject to difficult-to-predict changes in the overall procurement strategies of wireless carrier customers. In February 2019, we closed on our acquisition of Solacom Technologies Inc. ("Solacom"), which is a leading provider of NG911 solutions for public safety agencies. During the second quarter, we began repositioning certain of our enterprise technology products to focus on providing higher margin solution offerings. As such we have ceased offering certain solutions and do not intend to renew certain contracts. Nevertheless, we expect sales of enterprise technology solutions as well as safety and security technology solutions to be higher than what we achieved in fiscal 2018. In the aggregate, we expect fiscal 2019 net sales in our Commercial Solutions segment to increase as compared to fiscal 2018. We also expect this segment's net sales in each of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019 to exceed the net sales achieved in the respective comparable quarters of fiscal 2018. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Commercial Solutions segment can fluctuate from period-to-period due to many factors, including changes in the general business environment. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. 49 Index Government Solutions Net sales in our Government Solutions segment were $160.3 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to $93.4 million for the six months ended January 31, 2018 , a significant increase of $66.9 million, or 71.6% . Our Government Solutions segment represented 49.3% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019 , as compared to 36.6% for the six months ended January 31, 2018 . Bookings in our Government Solutions segment for the six months ended January 31, 2019 were strong and our book-to-bill ratio (a measure defined as bookings divided by net sales) was 0.80 . During the six months ended January 31, 2019, we were among a number of awardees under the U.S. Navys SeaPort Next Generation ("SeaPort-NxG") indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity ("IDIQ"), multiple-award contract vehicle with a total potential maximum value of $10.0 billion. All work under SeaPort-NxG will fall under two categories (engineering support services and program management support services), which are further divided into twenty-three functional areas such as systems engineering, research and development and logistics support. We do not record bookings until we receive funded orders. As such, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 does not include any bookings or revenue contributions from this IDIQ contract. However, over time, we would expect this contract award to benefit sales of our command and control solutions. Although the amount and timing of orders in our Government Solutions segment are difficult to predict, we are targeting to achieve a book-to-bill ratio of 1.0 for this segment for fiscal 2019. Important orders received during the six month period in fiscal 2019 include: (i) over $33.6 million of orders to supply Manpack Satellite Terminals, networking equipment and other advanced VSAT products to the U.S. Army (which were booked pursuant to our $223.4 million Global Tactical Advanced Communication Systems ("GTACS") contract with the U.S. Army's PM Tactical Network, which has a remaining unfunded contract value of $89.9 million as of January 31, 2019); (ii) $12.3 million of orders to provide ongoing sustainment services to the U.S. Army for the AN/TSC-198A SNAP (Secret Internet Protocol Router ("SIPR") and Non-classified Internet Protocol Router ("NIPR") Access Point), Very Small Aperture Terminals ("VSATs"); (iii) $11.9 million of orders for cyber security training solutions; (iv) $3.0 million of orders for antenna feeds to be incorporated into portable and inflatable 1.2-meter and 2.4-meter SATCOM terminals; (v) $1.2 million of orders from the City of Baltimore to deliver advanced communications solutions; and (vi) $1.1 million of incremental funding from the U.S. Army related to the first option period under our Blue Force Tracking-1 ("BFT-1") sustainment contract. The increase in net sales in this segment primarily reflects higher net sales of our command and control solutions, in particular, Manpack Satellite Terminals, networking equipment and other advanced VSAT products to the U.S. Army, incremental sales of Electrical, Electronic and Electromechanical ("EEE") space components and deliveries of our next generation MT-2025 mobile satellite transceivers, which are also known as the Blue Force Tracker-2 High Capacity ("BFT-2-HC") satellite transceivers and, to a lesser extent, over-the-horizon microwave systems products. During the six months ended January 31, 2019 , we continued to work with the U.S. Army with respect to our MT-2025 satellite transceivers. These transceivers meet BFT-2 protocols, provide best-in-class reliability and are fully backward compatible with the BFT-1 system. Comtech currently provides sustaining support for the BFT-1 system and previously shipped over 100,000 BFT-1 mobile satellite transceivers. We started shipments of our MT-2025 satellite transceivers in fiscal 2018 pursuant to an $11.7 million order and completed such shipments in our second quarter of fiscal 2019. Because the amount and timing of any new MT-2025 satellite transceiver orders are difficult to predict, we have not included any revenue or earnings contributions in our updated Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019. Net sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems products for the six months ended January 31, 2019 were significantly higher than the six months ended January 31, 2018 , as business activity in this product line recently picked up. Our ongoing marketing and sales efforts, and our investments to expand this product line and expand into new international markets are yielding positive results. Net sales during the six months ended January 31, 2019 benefited from work performed on our $31.0 million order received in fiscal 2018 for Modular Transportable Transmission System ("MTTS") troposcatter terminals to be utilized as part of a deployable communications network for an Asia Pacific military service and a $9.1 million contract to supply another foreign military with our over-the-horizon microwave systems. Teaming with a large prime contractor, we recently submitted a proposal to supply a significant quantity of our over-the-horizon microwave systems to the U.S. Army. During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, our teaming partner informed us that its proposal was not being considered for further evaluation and that it has filed a formal protest. In a related development, we understand that the U.S. Marine Corps intends to issue a separate procurement proposal for over-the-horizon microwave systems. As such, we now believe that any potential award will be delayed by several months, if not longer. While disappointed in the delay, we believe our over-the-horizon microwave systems can meet the specifications and requirements of the U.S. Army as well as a forthcoming request from the U.S. Marine Corps. Ultimately, we believe we will be successful in supplying our troposcatter equipment to the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps. 50 Index Fielding schedules for our Government Solutions segment are fluid and there are a number of items that could shift between quarters. Based on our current assessment, we expect net sales in our Government Solutions segment in each of the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019 to be lower than the amount we achieved in the second quarter. Overall, based on fiscal 2019 performance to date, the mix and anticipated timing of performance on orders in backlog and expected new orders, we anticipate that fiscal 2019 net sales for our Government Solutions segment will be significantly higher than fiscal 2018. Bookings, sales and profitability in our Government Solutions segment can fluctuate dramatically from period-to-period due to many factors, including unpredictable funding, deployment and technology decisions by our U.S. and international government customers. As such, period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be indicative of a trend or future performance. Geography and Customer Type Net sales by geography and customer type, as a percentage of segment and consolidated net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: Six months ended January 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Consolidated U.S. government 21.3 % 15.2 % 68.8 % 61.1 % 44.7 % 32.0 % Domestic 52.2 % 56.7 % 10.6 % 19.3 % 31.7 % 43.1 % Total U.S. 73.5 % 71.9 % 79.4 % 80.4 % 76.4 % 75.1 % International 26.5 % 28.1 % 20.6 % 19.6 % 23.6 % 24.9 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Net sales to U.S. government customers include sales to the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as sales directly to or through prime contractors. Domestic net sales include sales to commercial customers, as well as to U.S. state and local governments. Included in domestic net sales, are sales to Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon"). Sales to Verizon were 11.1% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2018 . International net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 (which include sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to international customers) were $76.7 million and $63.7 million , respectively. Except for the U.S., no individual country (including sales to U.S. domestic companies for inclusion in products that are sold to a foreign country) represented more than 10.0% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 . Gross Profit. Gross profit was $119.0 million and $98.5 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The significant increase of $20.5 million reflects significantly higher net sales in our Government Solutions segment, as discussed above. Gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2019 was 36.6% as compared to 38.6% for the six months ended January 31, 2018 . The decrease in gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, was almost entirely driven by the significant period-to-period increase in net sales in our Government Solutions segment, as discussed above. This segment historically achieves lower gross margins than our Commercial Solutions segment. The six months ended January 31, 2018 also included a favorable warranty settlement which resulted in a reduction of $0.6 million to cost of sales in our Unallocated segment. Gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, is further discussed below. Our Commercial Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2019 was higher than the six months ended January 31, 2018 due to a more favorable product mix (including deliveries of our satellite earth station equipment to the U.S. Navy). Our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 assumes we continue to seed and invest in the market for our HEIGHTS solutions and that related sales will grow significantly from the level we achieved in fiscal 2018. Today, HEIGHTS solutions have lower gross margins than our traditional Single Channel per Carrier ("SCPC") satellite earth station modems and, given expected sales growth, our gross profit, as a percentage of satellite earth station product sales in fiscal 2019, is expected to be lower as compared to fiscal 2018. Over time, we believe that margins will improve as HEIGHTS volume increases. Overall, looking forward, based on the mix and anticipated timing of shipments and performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the mix and timing of expected new orders, gross profit for this segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for fiscal 2019 is expected to be lower than the level achieved in fiscal 2018. 51 Index Our Government Solutions segment's gross profit, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for the six months ended January 31, 2019 was higher than the level we achieved in the six months ended January 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to overall favorable product mix changes during the six months ended January 31, 2019 , including a higher percentage of segment net sales related to our over-the-horizon microwave systems products. Based on the mix and anticipated timing of shipments and performance related to orders currently in our backlog and the mix and timing of expected new orders, gross profit for this segment, as a percentage of related segment net sales, for fiscal 2019 is expected to be comparable to the level achieved in fiscal 2018. Included in consolidated cost of sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 are provisions for excess and obsolete inventory of $1.7 million and $2.4 million , respectively. As discussed in "Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Provisions for Excess and Obsolete Inventory," we regularly review our inventory and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on historical and projected usage assumptions. Because our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each individual segment, it is inherently difficult to forecast. Nevertheless, based on expected bookings, expected timing of our performance on orders and the anticipated increase of Government Solutions segment net sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales, we currently expect our consolidated gross profit, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2019 to be lower than the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2018. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses . Selling, general and administrative expenses were $63.8 million and $55.7 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, representing an increase of $8.1 million. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 19.6% and 21.8% for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The decrease, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, is primarily attributable to the increase in our consolidated net sales. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2019 include $1.4 million of facility exit costs as a result of our successful consolidation of our Government Solutions segments manufacturing facility located in Tampa, Florida with our facility in Orlando, Florida. During the six months ended January 31, 2019 , we also incurred $3.9 million of estimated contract settlement costs related to an ongoing repositioning of our enterprise technology solutions offerings in our Commercial Solutions segment that we initiated during the most recent fiscal quarter. Excluding such costs, our selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2019 would have been $58.5 million, or 18.0% of consolidated net sales. Amortization of stock-based compensation expense recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses was $2.0 million in the six months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to $1.6 million in the six months ended January 31, 2018 . Amortization in the six months ended January 31, 2018 includes the benefit of a $0.4 million reversal of stock-based compensation expense related to certain performance shares previously expected to be earned. Amortization of stock-based compensation is not allocated to our two reportable operating segments. Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2019 selling, general and administrative expenses, in dollars, to be higher and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to the percentage achieved in fiscal 2018. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses were $27.2 million for both the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. As a percentage of consolidated net sales, research and development expenses were 8.4% and 10.7% for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. For the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , research and development expenses of $23.4 million and $23.2 million, respectively, related to our Commercial Solutions segment, and $3.7 million and $3.8 million, respectively, related to our Government Solutions segment. The remaining research and development expenses of $0.1 million for both the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, related to the amortization of stock-based compensation expense. Whenever possible, we seek customer funding for research and development to adapt our products to specialized customer requirements. During the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , customers reimbursed us $7.3 million and $8.2 million, respectively, which is not reflected in the reported research and development expenses, but is included in net sales with the related costs included in cost of sales. We continue to invest in enhancements to existing products as well as in new products across almost all of our product lines. Based on our current spending plans, we expect fiscal 2019 research and development expenses, in dollars, to be higher and, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to fiscal 2018. 52 Index Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization relating to intangible assets with finite lives was $8.6 million (of which $6.9 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $1.7 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and $10.5 million (of which $8.8 million was for the Commercial Solutions segment and $1.7 million was for the Government Solutions segment) for the six months ended January 31, 2018 . The decrease from $10.5 million to $8.6 million was the result of certain intangible assets in our Commercial Solutions segment that became fully amortized in fiscal 2018. As a result of our acquisition of Solacom, we expect our quarterly run-rate for amortization to be approximately $0.3 million higher. As such, our business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 now assumes total amortization of intangibles to approximate $17.8 million, or an increase from $17.2 million we previously expected. Settlement of Intellectual Property Litigation. During the six months ended January 31, 2019 , we recorded a $ 3.2 million benefit in our Unallocated segment as a result of a favorable ruling issued by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter. There was no comparable adjustment in the six months ended January 31, 2018 . Acquisition Plan Expenses. During the six months ended January 31, 2019 , we incurred $2.9 million of total acquisition plan expenses. These expenses are recorded in our Unallocated segment and primarily related to our acquisition of Solacom, as discussed above. During the six months ended January 31, 2019 , we also initiated efforts to acquire another small but growing technology solutions company. Our acquisition plan effort is ongoing and we expect to incur approximately $1.0 million of additional expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2019. There is no certainty that our acquisition plan efforts will be successful. Operating Income. Operating income for the six months ended January 31, 2019 was $19.7 million as compared to $5.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2018 . Operating income (loss) by reportable segment is shown in the table below: Six months ended January 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Operating income (loss) $ 15.8 13.7 14.4 (0.9 ) (10.5 ) (7.7 ) $ 19.7 5.1 Percentage of related net sales 9.6 % 8.5 % 9.0 % (1.0 )% NA NA 6.1 % 2.0 % The increase in our Commercial Solutions segments operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily due to higher net sales at higher gross margins, lower amortization of intangibles and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, offset in part by a $3.9 million charge for estimated contract settlement costs and slightly higher research and development expenses, as discussed above. Looking forward, excluding the $3.9 million charge, we expect fiscal 2019 operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be similar to fiscal 2018. The significant increase in our Government Solutions segments operating income, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily due to significantly higher net sales at higher gross margins, offset in part by $1.4 million of facility exit costs, as discussed above. Looking forward, we expect fiscal 2019 operating income, in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, to be significantly higher as compared to fiscal 2018. The increase in unallocated expenses is primarily due to increased business and sales activity during the more recent period, acquisition plan expenses and an increase in amortization of stock-based compensation offset in part by the benefit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above. In addition, unallocated operating expenses for the six months ended January 31, 2018 includes the benefit of a warranty settlement, as discussed above. Amortization of stock-based compensation was $2.2 million and $1.8 million , respectively, for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 . Amortization of stock-based compensation for the six months ended January 31, 2018 reflects a reversal of $0.4 million of stock-based compensation expense related to certain performance shares that were previously expected to be earned. Amortization of stock-based compensation can fluctuate from period-to-period based on the type and timing of stock-based awards, estimated forfeitures and the achievement of applicable performance goals. 53 Index On an annual basis, amortization of stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2019 is expected to increase to a range of $11.0 million to $13.0 million as compared to the $8.6 million amortized in fiscal 2018. This increase is largely due to an increase in the number and value of annual non-equity incentive awards expected to be granted in fiscal 2019 as a result of anticipated operating income contributions from each of our two reportable operating segments. Like we did in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 assumes that we continue to pay certain annual non-equity incentive awards in the form of fully vested share units. If we do not achieve our fiscal 2019 business goals, amortization of stock-based compensation expense would be lower than our current expected fiscal 2019 range. Looking forward, unallocated operating expenses are expected to be higher in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018. This expected increase is primarily due to anticipated changes in compensation costs (including amortization of stock-based compensation expense), acquisition plan expenses and other increased spending, offset in part by the benefit from the favorable ruling related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above. Consolidated GAAP operating income was $19.7 million or 6.1% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to GAAP operating income of $5.1 million or 2.0% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2018 . Excluding the $3.9 million of estimated contract settlement costs, $1.4 million of facility exit costs, $2.9 million of acquisition plan expenses and $3.2 million benefit related to a legacy TCS intellectual property matter, as discussed above, consolidated operating income would have been $24.7 million, or 7.6% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended January 31, 2019 . Looking forward, on a consolidated basis, we are targeting operating income, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, to be similar to the 6.2% we achieved in fiscal 2018. Such GAAP operating income target includes the additional acquisition plan expenses expected during the remainder of fiscal 2019. Interest Expense. Interest expense was $4.9 million and $5.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in the six months ended January 31, 2019 was approximately 5.6%. Our current cash borrowing rate (which excludes the amortization of deferred financing costs) approximates 4.5%. Based on the type, terms, amount of outstanding debt (including capital leases and other obligations) and current interest rates, our effective interest rate (including amortization of deferred financing costs) in fiscal 2019 is now anticipated to range from 5.3% to 5.5%. Despite borrowing approximately $25.9 million to fund the cash portion of the Solacom acquisition, we do expect to generate strong cash flow from operating activities in the second half of fiscal 2019. Overall, total interest expense in fiscal 2019 is expected to approximate $10.0 million. Write-off of Deferred Financing Costs. In connection with the establishment of our new Credit Facility, we wrote-off $3.2 million of deferred financing costs which primarily related to the term loan portion of our prior credit facility. See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (11) - Credit Facility" for further information. Interest (Income) and Other. Interest (income) and other for both the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 was nominal. All of our available cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in bank deposits and money market deposit accounts which, at this time, are currently yielding an immaterial interest rate. Provision for (Benefit From) Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes during the six months ended January 31, 2019 was $0.2 million as compared to a benefit of $14.1 million for the six months ended January 31, 2018 . During the six months ended January 31, 2019 , we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $2.4 million, primarily related to: (i) the favorable resolution of the IRS' audit of our fiscal 2016 federal income tax return and (ii) discrete tax benefits for stock-based awards that were settled during fiscal 2019. Excluding discrete tax items for the six months ended January 31, 2019 , our effective tax rate was 23.0%. During the six months ended January 31, 2018 , we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $14.0 million, resulting from the passage of Tax Reform which required us to remeasure our deferred tax assets and liabilities (including liabilities associated with the non-deductible amortization related to our intangible assets). Our effective tax rate, excluding discrete tax items, for the six months ended January 31, 2018 was 27.75%. 54 Index The decrease from 27.75% to 23.0% is principally attributable to the passage of Tax Reform which reduced the statutory income tax rate from 35.0% to 21.0%. Such decrease was partially offset by lower tax deductions for certain executive compensation expenses. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal 2015 and 2017 remain subject to potential future IRS audit. None of our state income tax returns prior to fiscal 2014 are subject to audit. TCS's federal income tax returns for tax year 2015 and the tax period from January 1, 2016 to February 23, 2016 are subject to potential future IRS audit. None of TCS's state income tax returns prior to calendar year 2014 are subject to audit. Future tax assessments or settlements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Net Income. During the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, consolidated net income was $11.3 million and $14.1 million, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA (both in dollars and as a percentage of related net sales) for both the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 are shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): Six months ended January 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 ($ in millions) Commercial Solutions Government Solutions Unallocated Consolidated Net income (loss) $ 15.7 13.7 14.4 (1.0 ) (18.8 ) 1.4 $ 11.3 14.1 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 0.1 0.2 (14.1 ) 0.2 (14.1 ) Interest (income) and other Write-off of deferred financing costs 3.2 3.2 Interest expense 0.1 4.9 5.0 4.9 5.1 Amortization of stock-based compensation 2.2 1.8 2.2 1.8 Amortization of intangibles 6.9 8.8 1.7 1.7 8.6 10.5 Depreciation 4.5 4.9 0.7 1.2 0.4 0.6 5.7 6.7 Estimated contract settlement costs 3.9 3.9 Settlement of intellectual property litigation (3.2 ) (3.2 ) Acquisition plan expenses 2.9 2.9 Facility exit costs 1.4 1.4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 31.1 27.5 18.2 2.0 (8.2 ) (5.3 ) $ 41.2 24.1 Percentage of related net sales 18.9 % 17.0 % 11.4 % 2.1 % NA NA 12.7 % 9.5 % The significant increase in consolidated Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of consolidated net sales, during the six months ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the six months ended January 31, 2018 is primarily attributable to significantly higher net sales, favorable product mix changes in both of our segments and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, as discussed above. The increase in our Commercial Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily attributable to higher net sales at higher gross margins and the benefit of cost reduction actions previously initiated, offset in part by slightly higher research and development expenses, as discussed above. The significant increase in our Government Solutions segment's Adjusted EBITDA, both in dollars and as a percentage of related segment net sales, was primarily driven by significantly higher net sales at higher gross margins, as discussed above. 55 Index Because our Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, depends on the volume of sales, sales mix and related gross profit for each individual segment as well as unallocated spending, it is inherently difficult to forecast. In addition, our Business Outlook for Fiscal 2019 includes a number of items, the timing of which can still shift and impact our expected quarterly financial performance. Nevertheless, based on expected bookings, expected timing of our performance on orders and the anticipated increase in our Government Solutions segment net sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales, we currently expect our Adjusted EBITDA, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, for fiscal 2019 to be similar to the percentage we achieved in fiscal 2018. If order flow remains strong and we are able to achieve all of our fiscal 2019 business goals, it is possible that our fiscal 2019 Adjusted EBITDA could be higher than our targeted amount. A reconciliation of our fiscal 2018 GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA of $78.4 million is shown in the table below (numbers in the table may not foot due to rounding): ($ in millions) Fiscal Year 2018 Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA: Net income $ 29.8 Income taxes (5.1 ) Interest (income) and other 0.3 Interest expense 10.2 Amortization of stock-based compensation 8.6 Amortization of intangibles 21.1 Depreciation 13.7 Adjusted EBITDA $ 78.4 In addition, a reconciliation of our GAAP consolidated operating income, net income and net income per diluted share during the six months ended January 31, 2019 to the corresponding non-GAAP measures is shown in the table below (numbers and per share amounts in the table may not foot due to rounding): Six months ended January 31, 2019 ($ in millions, except for per share amount) Operating Income Net Income Net Income per Diluted Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings: GAAP measures, as reported $ 19.7 $ 11.3 $ 0.47 Estimated contract settlement costs 3.9 3.0 0.12 Settlement of intellectual property litigation (3.2 ) (2.5 ) (0.10 ) Facility exit costs 1.4 1.1 0.04 Acquisition plan expenses 2.9 2.2 0.09 Write-off of deferred financing costs 2.5 0.10 Net discrete tax benefit (2.4 ) (0.10 ) Non-GAAP measures $ 24.7 $ 15.2 $ 0.63 56 Index Our Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure that represents earnings (loss) before income taxes, interest (income) and other, write-off of deferred financing costs, interest expense, amortization of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, depreciation expense, estimated contract settlement costs, settlement of intellectual property litigation, acquisition plan expenses or strategic alternatives analysis expenses, facility exit costs and other. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may differ from the definition of EBITDA used by other companies and therefore may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is also a measure frequently requested by our investors and analysts. We believe that investors and analysts may use Adjusted EBITDA, along with other information contained in our SEC filings, in assessing our performance and comparability of our results with other companies. Our Non-GAAP measures for consolidated operating income, net income and net income per diluted share reflect the GAAP measures as reported, adjusted for certain items as described. These Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as an analytical tool as they exclude the financial impact of transactions necessary to conduct our business, such as the granting of equity compensation awards, and are not intended to be an alternative to financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These measures are adjusted as described in the reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP in the above tables, but these adjustments should not be construed as an inference that all of these adjustments or costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Investors are advised to carefully review the GAAP financial results that are disclosed in our SEC filings. We have not quantitatively reconciled our fiscal 2019 Adjusted EBITDA target to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because items such as stock-based compensation, adjustments to the provision for income taxes, amortization of intangibles and interest expense, which are specific items that impact these measures, have not yet occurred, are out of our control, or cannot be predicted. For example, quantification of stock-based compensation expense requires inputs such as the number of shares granted and market price that are not currently ascertainable. Accordingly, reconciliations to the Non-GAAP forward looking metrics are not available without unreasonable effort and such unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our financial results. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our cash and cash equivalents increased to $46.0 million at January 31, 2019 from $43.5 million at July 31, 2018 , an increase of $2.5 million. The increase in cash and cash equivalents during the six months ended January 31, 2019 was driven by the following: Net cash provided by operating activities was $ 13.0 million and $ 9.2 million , respectively, for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 . The period-over-period increase in cash flow from operating activities reflects overall changes in net working capital requirements, principally the timing of shipments, billings and payments. We expect cash flow from operating activities for the second half of fiscal 2019 to be positive. Net cash used in investing activities was $ 4.2 million and $ 2.8 million , respectively, for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 . Both of these amounts primarily represent expenditures relating to ongoing equipment upgrades and enhancements. Net cash used in financing activities was $ 6.3 million and $7.7 million , respectively, for the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 . During the six months ended January 31, 2019 , we entered into a new Credit Facility and repaid in full the outstanding borrowings under our Prior Credit Facility. In order to fund our operating cash flow usage, we borrowed from our new Credit Facility. During the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 , we paid $5.0 million and $4.8 million , respectively, in cash dividends to our stockholders. We also made $5.0 million and $1.0 million , respectively, of payments to remit employees' statutory tax withholding requirements related to the net settlement of stock-based awards during the six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 . The Credit Facility is discussed below and in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (11) - Credit Facility." Our investment policy relating to our cash and cash equivalents is intended to minimize principal loss while at the same time maximize the income we receive without significantly increasing risk. To minimize risk, we generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in money market mutual funds (both government and commercial), certificates of deposit, bank deposits, and U.S. Treasury securities. Many of our money market mutual funds invest in direct obligations of the U.S. government, bank securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, certificates of deposit and commercial paper and other securities issued by other companies. While we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, we believe our investment policies are appropriate in the current environment. Ultimately, the availability of our cash and cash equivalents is dependent on a well-functioning liquid market. 57 Index As of January 31, 2019 , our material short-term cash requirements primarily consist of: (i) estimated interest payments under our Credit Facility; (ii) payments related to our capital lease and other obligations; (iii) operating lease commitments; (iv) our ongoing working capital needs, including income tax payments; and (v) payment of accrued quarterly dividends. Also, in February 2019, we closed on our acquisition of Solacom Technologies Inc. and paid $25.9 million of the preliminary purchase price in cash. During our second quarter of fiscal 2019, we initiated an acquisition plan for another small but growing technology solutions company. If our acquisition plan is successful, we may be required to pay for such acquisition primarily with existing cash and cash equivalents and increased borrowings under our Credit Facility. In connection with an original $175.0 million shelf registration filed with the SEC on December 15, 2015, we sold 7.1 million shares of our common stock in a public offering at a price of $14.00 per share in June 2016, resulting in proceeds to us of $95.0 million , net of underwriting discounts and commissions. As such shelf registration was due to expire, in December 2018, we filed a new $400.0 million shelf registration with the SEC for the sale of various types of securities, including debt. The new shelf registration was declared effective by the SEC as of December 14, 2018. As of January 31, 2019 and March 6, 2019 , we were authorized to repurchase up to an additional $8.7 million of our common stock, pursuant to our current $100.0 million stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase program has no time restrictions and repurchases may be made in open-market or privately negotiated transactions and may be made pursuant to SEC Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. There were no repurchases of our common stock during the three or six months ended January 31, 2019 or 2018. On September 26, 2018 and December 6, 2018 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, which was paid on November 16, 2018 and February 15, 2019 , respectively. On March 6, 2019 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on May 17, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 17, 2019 . Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility as well as Board approval. Our material long-term cash requirements primarily consist of: (i) mandatory interest payments pursuant to our Credit Facility; (ii) payments relating to our capital lease and other obligations; and (iii) operating lease commitments. We have historically met both our short-term and long-term cash requirements with funds provided by a combination of cash and cash equivalent balances, cash generated from operating activities and cash generated from financing transactions. Based on our anticipated level of future sales and operating income, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalent balances, our cash generated from operating activities and amounts potentially available under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet both our currently anticipated short-term and long-term operating cash requirements. Although it is difficult in the current economic and credit environment to predict the terms and conditions of financing that may be available in the future, should our short-term or long-term cash requirements increase beyond our current expectations, we believe that we would have sufficient access to credit from financial institutions and/or financing from public and private debt and equity markets. Credit Facility On October 31, 2018 , we entered into a First Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of lenders, replacing our prior Credit Agreement dated as of February 23, 2016 (as amended by that certain First Amendment, dated as of June 6, 2017 (the "Prior Credit Facility")). The new Credit Facility provides a senior secured loan facility of up to $550.0 million consisting of: (i) a revolving loan facility ("Revolving Loan Facility") with a borrowing limit of $300.0 million ; (ii) an accordion feature allowing us to borrow up to an additional $250.0 million ; (iii) a $35.0 million letter of credit sublimit; and (iv) a swingline loan credit sublimit of $25.0 million . The Credit Facility matures on October 31, 2023 (the "Revolving Maturity Date"). If we issue new unsecured debt in excess of $5.0 million with a maturity date that is less than 91 days from October 31, 2023 , the Revolving Maturity Date would automatically accelerate so that it would be 91 days earlier than the maturity date of the new unsecured debt. 58 Index The proceeds of the new Credit Facility were used, in part, to repay in full the outstanding borrowings under the Prior Credit Facility, and additional proceeds of the Credit Facility are expected to be used by us for working capital and other general corporate purposes. As of January 31, 2019 , the amount outstanding under our Credit Facility was $174.5 million , which is reflected in the non-current portion of long-term debt on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. At January 31, 2019 , we had $2.3 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts and no outstanding commercial letters of credit. During the three months ended January 31, 2019 , we had outstanding balances under the new Credit Facility, ranging from $160.0 million to $174.5 million . In addition, we had outstanding balances under the Revolving Loan Facility of the Prior Credit Facility, ranging from $34.9 million to $63.8 million during the three months ended October 31, 2018. Borrowings under the Credit Facility shall be either: (i) Alternate Base Rate borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined) in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate (as defined) in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1.00% per annum and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate (as defined) on such day (or, if such day is not a business day, the immediately preceding business day) plus 1.00% per annum, plus (y) the Applicable Rate (as defined), or (ii) Eurodollar borrowings, which bear interest from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to (x) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such interest period plus (y) the Applicable Rate. Determination of the Applicable Rate is based on a pricing grid that is dependent upon our Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined) as of the end of each fiscal quarter for which consolidated financial statements have been most recently delivered. The Credit Facility contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants. The Credit Facility also contains customary negative covenants, subject to negotiated exceptions, including but not limited to: (i) liens, (ii) investments, (iii) indebtedness, (iv) significant corporate changes, including mergers and acquisitions, (v) dispositions, (vi) restricted payments, including stockholder dividends, and (vii) certain other restrictive agreements. The Credit Facility also contains certain financial covenants and customary events of default (subject to grace periods, as appropriate), such as payment defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency, the occurrence of a defined change in control and the failure to observe the negative covenants and other covenants related to the operation of our business. In addition, under certain circumstances, we may be required to enter into amendments to the Credit Facility in connection with any further syndication of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility provides for, among other things: (i) a significant increase in our balance sheet flexibility; (ii) no scheduled payments of principal until maturity; (iii) a maximum Secured Leverage Ratio of 3.75 x trailing twelve months ("TTM") Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted EBITDA") and a Maximum Total Leverage Ratio of 4.50 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA, each with no step downs; (iv) a Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 3.25 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA; (v) reduced interest rates of approximately 25 basis points as compared to the Prior Credit Facility (based on our Secured Leverage Ratio as of July 31, 2018); and (vi) the elimination or relaxation of many restrictive covenants in our Prior Credit Facility. As of January 31, 2019 , our Secured Leverage Ratio was 1.85 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the maximum allowable Secured Leverage Ratio of 3.75 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. Our Interest Expense Coverage Ratio as of January 31, 2019 was 12.16 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA compared to the Minimum Interest Expense Coverage Ratio of 3.25 x TTM Adjusted EBITDA. Given our expected future business performance, we anticipate maintaining compliance with the terms and financial covenants in our Credit Facility for the foreseeable future. The obligations under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantors"). As collateral security under the Credit Facility and the guarantees thereof, we and the Guarantors have granted to the administrative agent, for the benefit of the lenders, a lien on, and first priority security interest in, substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets. On December 6, 2018, we entered into the first amendment to the Credit Facility. The purpose of the amendment is to provide for a mechanism to replace the LIBO Rate for Eurodollar borrowings with an alternative benchmark interest rate, should the LIBO Rate generally become unavailable in the future on an other-than-temporary basis. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth for such terms in the Credit Facility and the Prior Credit Facility, which have been documented and filed with the SEC. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS As of January 31, 2019 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. 59 Index COMMITMENTS In the normal course of business, other than as discussed below, we routinely enter into binding and non-binding purchase obligations primarily covering anticipated purchases of inventory and equipment. We do not expect that these commitments, as of January 31, 2019 , will materially adversely affect our liquidity. At January 31, 2019 , cash payments due under long-term obligations (including estimated interest expense on our Credit Facility and capital lease and other obligations), excluding purchase orders that we entered into in our normal course of business, are as follows: Obligations Due by Fiscal Years or Maturity Date (in thousands) Total Remainder of 2019 2020 and 2021 2022 and 2023 After 2023 Credit Facility - principal payments $ 174,500 174,500 Credit Facility - interest payments 37,760 3,954 15,915 15,915 1,976 Operating lease commitments 43,876 5,082 16,878 11,156 10,760 Capital lease and other obligations 1,850 1,070 780 Net contractual cash obligations $ 257,986 10,106 33,573 27,071 187,236 As discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (11) - Credit Facility , " on October 31, 2018 , we entered into a new Credit Facility, replacing our Prior Credit Facility dated as of February 23, 2016. The new Credit Facility provides a senior secured loan facility of up to $550.0 million consisting of: (i) a revolving loan facility ("Revolving Loan Facility") with a borrowing limit of $300.0 million ; (ii) an accordion feature allowing us to borrow up to an additional $250.0 million ; (iii) a $35.0 million letter of credit sublimit; and (iv) a swingline loan credit sublimit of $25.0 million . The Credit Facility matures on October 31, 2023 (the "Revolving Maturity Date"). In addition, if we issue new unsecured debt in excess of $5.0 million with a maturity date that is less than 91 days from October 31, 2023 , the Revolving Maturity Date would automatically accelerate so that it would be 91 days earlier than the maturity date of the new unsecured debt. As discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (18) - Stockholders Equity," on March 6, 2019 , our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable on May 17, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 17, 2019 . Future dividends remain subject to compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Facility as well as Board approval. At January 31, 2019 , we have approximately $2.3 million of standby letters of credit outstanding under our Credit Facility related to our guarantees of future performance on certain customer contracts. Such amounts are not included in the above table. In fiscal 2018, we entered into a full and final warranty settlement with AT&T, the largest customer/distributor of a small product line that we refer to as the TCS 911 call handling software solution. As discussed in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (9) - Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities , " pursuant to the settlement agreement, we issued thirty-six credits to AT&T of $0.2 million which AT&T can apply on a monthly basis to purchases of solutions from us, beginning October 2017 through September 2020. As of January 31, 2019 , the total present value of these monthly credits is $2.8 million , of which $1.6 million is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $1.2 million is reflected in other liabilities (non-current) on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. These amounts are not shown in the above commitment table. As discussed in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (10) - Cost Reduction Actions," during the three months ended October 31, 2018, we exited our Government Solutions segment's manufacturing facility located in Tampa, Florida and recorded a related charge of $1.4 million in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. As of January 31, 2019 , the remaining estimated facility exit costs amounted to $1.2 million , of which $0.8 million and $0.4 million , respectively, was included in "accrued expenses and other current liabilities" and "other liabilities (non-current)" on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Such amounts are not shown in the above commitment table. 60 Index In the ordinary course of business, we include indemnification provisions in certain of our customer contracts. Pursuant to these agreements, we have agreed to indemnify, hold harmless and reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party, including but not limited to losses related to third-party intellectual property claims. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these agreements due to a history of nominal claims in the Comtech legacy business and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As discussed further in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (19) - Legal Proceedings and Other Matters , " TCS is a party to a number of indemnification matters and we are incurring ongoing legal expenses in connection with these matters. Our insurance policies may not cover the cost of defending indemnification claims or providing indemnification. As a result, pending or future claims asserted against us by a party that we have agreed to indemnify could result in legal costs and damages that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We have change in control agreements, severance agreements and indemnification agreements with certain of our executive officers and certain key employees. All of these agreements may require payments by us, in certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in control of our Company or an involuntary termination of employment without cause. Our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2019 includes total liabilities of $7.5 million for uncertain tax positions, including interest, any or all of which may result in a cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of any potential cash settlement with the taxing authorities. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS We are required to prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") which is the source for all authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which is commonly referred to as "GAAP." The FASB ASC is subject to updates by the FASB, which are known as Accounting Standards Updates ("ASUs"). As further discussed in "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (3) - Adoption of Accounting Standards and Updates , " during the six months ended January 31, 2019 , we adopted: FASB ASU No. 2014-09 "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)." See "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (4) -Revenue," for further information. FASB ASU No. 2016-16, issued in October 2016, which eliminates a prior exception and now requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory (for example, intellectual property and property, plant and equipment) when the transfer occurs. We adopted this ASU on August 1, 2018. There was no material impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements (including any cumulative-effect adjustment) and disclosures upon such adoption. During the six months ended January 31, 2019, the SEC issued Final Rule Release No. 33-10532 "Disclosure Update and Simplification," which revised certain of the SECs disclosure requirements that have become superseded in light of other SEC and or U.S. GAAP disclosure requirements. As a result of the final rules amendments, the SEC now requires a registrant to reconcile its changes in stockholders' equity for both the current and comparative interim and year-to-date periods, with subtotals. Our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity for the three and six months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 reflect our adoption of this final rule. 61 Index In addition, the following FASB ASUs have been issued and incorporated into the FASB ASC and have not yet been adopted by us as of January 31, 2019 : FASB ASU No. 2016-02, issued in February 2016, which requires lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases): (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee's obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee's right to use a specified asset for the lease term. Under the new guidance, lessor accounting is largely unchanged. In January 2018, FASB ASU No. 2018-01 was issued to permit an entity to elect an optional transition practical expedient to not evaluate under Topic 842 land easements that exist or expired before the entitys adoption of Topic 842. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU Nos. 2018-10 and 2018-11, which provide further codification improvements and relieves the requirement to present prior comparative year results when adopting the new lease standard. Instead, companies can choose to recognize the cumulative-effect of applying the new standard to leased assets and liabilities as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. In December 2018, FASB ASU No. 2018-20 was issued to simplify the implementation of Topic 842 for the lessors as it relates to sales taxes, lessor costs paid directly by the lessee and recognition of variable payments for contracts with lease and non-lease components. These ASUs are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2019), including interim periods within those fiscal years and should be applied with a modified retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted. We are evaluating the impact of these ASUs on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2016-13 issued in June 2016 and ASU No. 2018-19 issued in November 2018, which require the measurement of expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date to be based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020), including interim periods within those fiscal years. All entities may adopt the amendments in this ASU earlier as of the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Except for a prospective transition approach required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date, an entity will apply the amendments in this ASU through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective (that is, on a modified-retrospective approach). We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2017-11, issued in July 2017, which provides guidance on the accounting for certain financial instruments with embedded features that result in the strike price of the instrument or embedded conversion option being reduced on the basis of the pricing of future equity offerings (commonly referred to as "down round" features). This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2019) and early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. This ASU should be applied retrospectively in accordance with the provisions of the ASU. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures; however, we do not expect the adoption to have any effect given that we currently do not have any financial instruments with such "down round" features. FASB ASU No. 2017-12, issued in August 2017, which expands and refines hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial risk components and simplifies and aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2019) and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures; however, we do not expect the adoption to have any effect given that we are currently not a party to any such hedging transactions. FASB ASU No. 2018-07, issued in June 2018, which expands the scope of Topic 718 to include certain share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2019), including interim periods within that fiscal year. Early adoption is permitted. An entity should only remeasure liability-classified awards that have not been settled by the date of adoption and equity-classified awards for which a measurement date has not been established, through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures; however, we do not expect the adoption to have any effect given that we currently do not have any such outstanding share-based awards with nonemployees. 62 Index FASB ASU No. 2018-13, issued in August 2018, which modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements in Topic 820. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020). Upon the effective date, certain provisions are to be applied prospectively, while others are to be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. An entity is permitted to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statement disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2018-15, issued in August 2018, which aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal use software license). The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments in this ASU. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020), and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period. This ASU should be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures. FASB ASU No. 2018-16, issued in October 2018, which expands the list of eligible U.S. benchmark interest rates permitted in the application of hedge accounting due to broad concerns about the long-term sustainability of the LIBO Rate. This ASU adds the Overnight Index Swap ("OIS") rate, based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"), as an eligible U.S. benchmark interest rate. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2019) and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures; however, we do not expect the adoption to have any effect given that we are currently not a party to any such hedging transactions. FASB ASU No. 2018-17, issued in October 2018, which requires entities to consider indirect interests held through related parties under common control on a proportional basis, rather than as the equivalent of a direct interest in its entirety when determining whether a decision-making fee is a variable interest. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020) and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures; however, we do not expect the adoption to have any effect given that we currently do not have any indirect interests held through related parties in common control. FASB ASU No. 2018-18, issued in November 2018, which clarifies when certain transactions between collaborative arrangement participants should be accounted for under ASC 606 and incorporates unit-of-account guidance consistent with ASC 606 to aid in this determination. The ASU also precludes entities from presenting consideration from transactions with a collaborator that is not a customer together with revenue recognized from contracts with customers. This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (our fiscal year beginning on August 1, 2020) and for interim periods therein, with early adoption permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures; however, we do not expect the adoption to have any effect given that we are currently not engaged in such collaborative arrangement transactions.